ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137005	We move to the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, second reading, P.Z. No. 516; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. I'd like the Secretary of State of the Department of Administration, please. Katica Prpić gives us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137006	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable parliamentary deputies and parliamentary representatives, I warmly welcome you all. This law, together with the Law on the Payments of State officials and subsistence, makes up a package of normative solutions to be revised by the system of salaries in accordance with the National Reform Programme. In accordance with the National Reform Programme, the new Law on Salaries will in a unique and comprehensive way address issues relating to wages, job classification, evaluation and remuneration. It is therefore proposed to delete the provisions of the Law on civil servants which regulate those issues by keeping those provisions in force until the adoption of the Law on Payments and Implementing Regulations to settle those issues. Furthermore, a total of 96 posts are proposed in place of the current position of Assistant Ministers, who are state officials, to be abolished, offering jobs of state-run officials, directors and chief inspectors managing the management organisation in the ministry's system. The depolitisation of the state administration is carried out as instead of a political decision, directors will be appointed to those posts and on the basis of a public tender for up to 4 years in the prescribed procedure and the fulfilment of the prescribed conditions for performing the tasks. This will ensure transparency of employment, equal availability of those jobs to all citizens under equal conditions. It is also proposed to increase the efficiency of the state service and continuity in carrying out entrusted tasks by enabling officials working for a certain period of time up to one year on transactions concerning international commitments undertaken or relating to specific government programmes, to carry out these tasks while the need is continuing. In this way, after the end of the year it is not necessary to sign a new employment ad, carry out a new procedure and prepare new employees who have yet to go to work because the state body already has employees, trained employees on these jobs. In doing so, it should be pointed out that these civil servants cannot, for a certain time, become a state service indefinitely because it is explicitly excluded. It is proposed to redefine the state expert examination in the expert examination as general cases will be held in the course of that examination for all officials regardless of where the state body is employed. The possibility of passing a specific part of the exam so far may be carried out as an expert examination if it is prescribed by a special law for the officials of individual services, for example. for mothering, customs, catastrian geodetic affairs, inspection work, individual job inspections, etc. In doing so, it is also proposed to prescribe the obligation to pass a two-level national exam. The first level is for medium professional equipment and the second level for higher professional equipment and high professional equipment, i.e. first graders and magistrates. By making it clear in the test catalogues that the field of study and learning outcomes will be clearly defined. In this regard, the Ministry of Administration has already prepared appropriate test materials. It is also proposed to establish a new way of passing a state examination by written means at regional level with contemporary methods of testing in order to achieve transparency, expertise and objectivity of the examination of all candidates under equal conditions. This will significantly reduce the total cost of the state exam, which so far included the costs of the candidates' arrival in Zagreb to pass the exams, often the cost of overnight stay in Zagreb, and the fees to members and secretaries of the state committee, minimum 5 members, interrogator and secretary. For reasons of uniform and uninterrupted application of the Law of Payments for civil servants and subsistence, it is proposed to amend the system of subsistences in such a way that they are also subject to the Law on civil servants and not to general rules on labour. Therefore, no longer a labour contract will be concluded with the tenants, and the rights and obligations will be decided by a solution, by a unilateral act of the employer, which will allow the reduction of wages due to a lower labour performance assessment without the consent of the tenant. It is proposed that the entry into force of this Act on the 8th day following its publication in the National Journal, with certain provisions in force later and those provisions which delete the provisions on the classification of posts, evaluation, promotion and promotion. Within three months of the entry into force of the Law on Payments, the provisions on the Director and the Chief Inspector, who manages the management organisation in the Ministry's system on the date of entry into force of the new Law on the System of State Administration, as that law provides for the abolition of the position of assistant ministers and the introduction of the Director and Chief Inspector who manages the management organisation within the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137007	I thank the secretary of state. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137008	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honors Secretary of State. The 2016 Decision, which was adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nevertheless banned new employment in the state administration, and only exceptionally could new employees be employed if, for example, two officials retired, so one new employee was employed or for the exchange of a member of staff who is temporarily on sick leave or not working. However, you are opening this law throughout the door for employment for a certain time, not for a year, but according to legal formulations, for a very long period, with very foggy provisions and putting a whole new layer of civil servants for a certain time, which may be in the state administration for 2, 3, 4 years of unlimited number, and what did we get instead of rationalising what we wanted in the state administration?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137009	Thank you, dear colleague. Here's the secretary of state, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137010	Respected, according to a decision to ban the new employment of civil servants, not to read the full name, it is also envisaged when and how to access new employment. It means new employment in line with the state service admission plan and the financial means provided, which is extremely important to highlight also as stated by clause 2 for 1 and for a certain period of time for the replacement of longer absences. This proposal is fully in line with this because new employment is not introduced, but employment at a certain time at a time when jobs are increased. At this point, the most significant and might as an example be highlighted is the employment approved by the Foreign Ministry by the decision, which is exactly what number, for which the ministry and that financial resources are provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137011	Thank you for your response to the secretary of state. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137012	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, looking at the proposals between, the differences between the first and second readings, I see that these five of my proposals here are not accepted, but I want to make this clear again, that the system of admission to the state service needs to be considered, not only to be considered, but to be changed. You've put here that you're going to consider, and I want in the adoption of a single law on officials and tenants, I really want to enable a transparent, unique competition, a unique ranking list in employment, that competences are the most basic criterion, at the level of certain professions and individual parts that are being employed, so that once and for all, you can remove any suspicion that someone has come anywhere, on any other basis than that competence. And that's what I'm sure I'm going to insist on, and I'd ask you not to write it, to consider it, but to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137013	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137014	Thank you very much. Indeed, we accept this remark, not that we will consider it, but that you will be directed, if nothing by e-indication that you actively participate in the process of adopting a new law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137015	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137016	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, this question should be asked by the Minister, I'll ask it to you, so I hope you can answer. You mentioned here again, that the position of assistant ministers and the new Law on the State Administration System will be abolished, the public tender will be appointed as a management person for 4 years. However, you said in your explanation that it is trying to depolitise public administration in this way. That's the minister, I heard him say in the media, but what do you mean, if it's been here again about four years? You're going to call a competition, you're going to have someone for four years, how does a man have protection, and what exactly is he going to do again after that four-year-old? Without political protection, he won't come to that place. I don't think it's a good measure, but I'm saying if you want to comment, if not, this question will definitely have to be answered by the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137017	Thank you, State Secretary's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137018	Your Honor, I can only answer that at this point, this is not the subject of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137019	I would like to thank the next replica of the esteemed colleague Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137020	Respected State Secretarys, for reforming the public administration's action plan, 880 million kuna, related to central employment, a unique place where, in fact, on the basis of transparent criteria, objective criteria, and where all accessionaries would have the same opportunity to become civil servants. The project was planned, the development of human potential in the 3rd quarter of 2017, for which reasons the project has not yet started, for which reasons it has not been revived, since the financial resources were provided by an operational programme for the development of human potentials since 2014 and thus, would be given one opportunity, order would be introduced in the very system of state administration, public administration, and thus would eliminate any possibility of using public services and state services as party employment polygons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137021	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, the State Secretary's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137022	Dear MPs, as we all know you were an employee of the Ministry of Administration, so you know that in 2017, we were welcomed by the action plan that you brought in and that these funds were secured. However, except for the action plan and the name of the project to be carried out, implemented, only... as the name of these projects, the EU projects, so that after that, we should also make summarys and name project teams and get the approval of PT2 and all the other actions that we have left, and you specifically asked me to agree on the HRM project he is in the making of a summary, as you know it is one of the most comprehensive projects being done at the Ministry of Administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137023	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137024	Thank you very much. Secretary, I would remind you that the law was changed at 6 months 2017, so it turns out that the law changes every year twice. Since 2005, I don't know what the Ministry is doing. This law has been changed 16 times. It is important here to indicate that competitions mainly in the receiving state service and thus in the public service should be based on transparency, objectivity and professionalism. I will point out that you do not know the criteria, or if you know the criteria, I will give you an example of the public service, the NP Krka where a person who had better professional qualities, the status of defenders, is not accepted but is therefore admitted to the person who has at the same time the HDZ card and the HNS as Director of NP Krka. Are these the principles of objectivity, professionalism and transparency? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137025	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Answer, secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137026	Your Honor, I have no comment on this because it's not in my job description.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137027	I would like to thank the esteemed secretary of state. Comrade Bulj, we're talking about civil servants here and we're not talking about public institutions or public enterprises. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137028	Thank you very much. Ma'am. Secretary of State, I think that, in explaining this law, it should be emphasized whether someone liked it or not, that this is the first step towards depoliticalisation in the professionalisation of the state administration, but what is likely to be in the debate today, I think that here in the light of the law you should indicate exactly how many civil servants there are, how many civil servants, how many members of the HV, how many members of the police, how many members of the judiciary, how many members of the tax administration and customs, because these are state administrations that are simply because of the various things defined the number of employees, and then the number of civil servants and talks about them will be much clearer and the picture will be much clearer. This way, when you say you have 250,000 people employed in the state and still in local self-government, then everything is thought to be in the state administration and it should be emphasized exactly how many thousands, not tens of thousands, but thousands of civil servants apply this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137029	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. The answer, secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137030	Thank you. According to the data, 31. 12. In 2018, it was 229 681 but I can say that only 35,000 are included as you have said to civil servants so that we can't, it's very important, thank you very much for asking a very different context, but it should be interrupted with the context that civil servants are unemployed, I would not agree with that, there are extremely valuable, hardworking, capable and professional persons and all the time that manipulation of these people is very insulting.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137031	I'd like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Representatives' Club, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137032	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected State Secretary with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will present a few sentences on the proposal for this law. The Law on civil servants has so far experienced a number of amendments and additions, and it would certainly be good to think about a new whole law. This regulation regulates the rights, obligations and arrangements of civil servants, their admission to the state service, the way in which jobs are filled, the classification of jobs, the evaluation of civil servants, their education, the way in which the state service is discontinued, and then, in particular, regulates the status of holders and all the matters in the field of labour law not regulated by this regulation or by other special law, the provision of the general regulation applies. The labour law. In order to prepare a new normative framework for the uniform system of pay, some provisions of this law relating to the classification of jobs, delete or redefine so that the same matter is not regulated in several laws. This Regulation shall enter The Law on civil servants indicates that salaries and other material rights of civil servants will be governed by a special law. It provides for the adoption of a new Law on the Payments of Civil Servants and Deputys and Implementing Regulations, i.e. Regulation on the classification of posts in the national service and the regulation on the evaluation of civil servants and substitutes. The expert working group, including representatives of the trade union, is considering the various payment system models that include rewarding and progressing officials in view of the results achieved but also sanctioning employees who do not achieve the planned and expected working effect. The proposed amendments amend the status of subsistence in such a way that the provisions of the Law on civil servants are applied to them, not as so far as the Labour Act and related to the establishment of a working relationship, i.e. by way of effect of this Act, they will be obtained as an act regulating their working-legal status as well as the officials. I think this is good, such a solution is already in accordance with the Law on Officials and Paids in Local and Regional Self-Government, which also gets a solution in the conclusion of a working relationship. The current amendments to the law have already contributed to the acceleration and simplification of the recruitment process of civil servants, and above all to the withdrawal of EU funds. I don't think there should be any concern about what Col. Podolnjak said, opening the door, creating a new category of civil servants for a certain period of time, by allowing this bill to create in specific conditions the possibility that the number of people needed to carry out the jobs, whose duration is time-limited, can't be accurately predicted and not within a year, as it will now be for the EU council to chair, should therefore, create the possibility of hiring as many employees as possible for the time these jobs will last. I don't think we need to libe ourselves to create those conditions for our system to be effective. We should not always seek strict form only, but we must think about how to create as effective a system as possible, and I do not think that we are opening up space for some kind of uncontrolled employment of civil servants or for their translation later into a working relationship indefinitely, because this law is not designed to do so either. It is also necessary to redefine the provision relating to the conclusion of a contract on the part of service providers for certain technical and professional tasks, as it will in fact require new activities and will require a spot-on resolution of individual tasks. Due to certain doubtful situations, which so far appeared in the peaches, there is a need for intervention and provisions on the submission of a state expert exam, which is now quite complex. The establishment of a new way, the proposed way to pass a state exam, written through, will improve the quality of the exams, with the rationalisation of resource use. In the future, the exam would only be from the present, general part, and the passing of the special part would be conducted only and exclusively if the special regulation provides for it. That means you would, for example. The competent national authorities of certain inspections shall take responsibility for carrying out expert examinations for inspectors. It is also proposed to prescribe a national exam, at 2 levels, and this first level for mid-cap jobs and others for higher levels of education jobs. I think it's a good proposal and it's going to make it possible for everyone on equal terms, in the shortest time, unlike now that we have a situation to pass a state-run expert exam, as a rule, one day at a time, I think it's going to shorten the time of the state's expert exam, and that everyone is going to do it in a much more efficient way. Also, what is important is the paper, and given that so far an incorrectly defined role in a senior officer in relation to the initiation of the procedure for the violation of official duty and of a subordinated official, it is now proposed that a senior officer be obliged to notify any violation of official duties to the head of the body within 15 days of the knowledge of the injury, and the inaction of that constitutes an easy violation of the official duty. The law also deletes a negative person, which has so far been the reason for the termination of the state service under the law, because the evaluation and the consequences of the assessment will be prescribed in the law on the salaries of civil servants and subsistence. These proposed changes are a package of normative solutions, which proposes labour pay and evaluation reforms, based on the results of work and expertise, thus addressing some existing dualisms in the application of the law, thus increasing legal certainty. I also agree with my colleague Shuker and with what the secretary of state has said, for a long time in our society, that civil servants are actually just some balance in society, i.e. a burden in the state budget as it is a category of people who do not have enough expertise, who are just here to get paid. I think it's unfair for these people, who are in the system and doing the work of the state administration. I think that if we want to have an efficient administration, first of all, we should think about how people should be motivated, young people, who are primarily educated and professionally qualified to enter the state administration. And I'm saying this first of all because of salaries that aren't big in the state administration, and I think that we should think about how in the future it's going to be as effective for us as possible, given that it's being achieved on a daily basis, that I don't say it increases obligations, and by applying various changes and laws, it increases the obligations and burdens that go to actually the back of civil servants. Here, briefly on the bill, this much. The HDZ Club will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137033	I thank my esteemed colleague. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137034	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, the honorable State Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal of the Law on Civil Servants is the first of a series of laws dealing with the state exactly as we will discuss this week. In this case, it is the final proposal, which we are discussing, and above all, we must see that what we said in that law in the first reading, has not changed in much, now in the second reading, the promoter generally did not adopt those key remarks that we made in the debate and in fact it is shown that the debate between 1st and 2nd reading did not lead in our opinion to qualitatively better solutions. First of all, the fact that we so often change this law, more than 10 times, tells us that this system is not complicated, it's not stable, it's not quality defined. A series of specific laws regulates the area of state administration and is yet to be adopted by the Law on the Payments of State officials and subsistence under the Proposal for a Law on the System of State Administration, which will be held in the course of the first reading in a few days. New interventions are foreseen in this crash. As a rule, bad interventions according to what we could read in the bill. In the debate, I will concentrate primarily on those aspects of the final bill that we consider to be the most controversial, and which have not been changed since the first reading. Indeed, and this should be said, we can generally see that the proponent, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not give up its proposals between the first and second readings, regardless of the arguments that have been made against such solutions in the parliamentary debate. The government unfortunately, according to us, continues to insist on its concept of so-called. the flexibility of employment in the state service and the increase of costs for work contracts. Under the law, as prescribed by the Article. 53rd law, persons in the public service should normally be admitted indefinitely and with mandatory probationary work. Of course, it is possible, under the law, to receive officials for a certain period of time, if the scope of the business is temporarily increased, but for up to a year at most, and these are actually fundamental legal provisions that should apply to the reception of civil servants. Unfortunately, in many ways, these basic provisions today, and possibly after the adoption of this law, will no longer be a rule, but I would rather say an exception. Since 2016, we have been in force by the Government's decision to ban the new employment of civil servants and deputies in state administration bodies and professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And of course, the employment of civil servants is extremely possible if, therefore, it cannot be ensured that business is regularly done by redistributing business among existing civil servants. It is predicted, therefore, that instead of two retired workers, a new employee could be employed, which therefore should have been progressively led to the reduction of the state administration. A certain time was possible to hire for the replacement of long-term staff, but up to a year. However, by interventions in the Law on Civil Servants, we have actually started to grow more and more, and especially with this proposal to expand the category of officials to be admitted to the state administration for a certain time, but for more than a year. The law was amended in June 2017, and then, for the purposes of working on projects financed by EU funds or programmes, a legal provision was installed to allow persons to be admitted to the state service for a period of longer than one year for a specific period of time, but for the duration of the project on which the person is working. What is important to say, because of this legislative amendment in 2017, that we have allowed officials to work for more than a year, but it is precisely defined that this is during the duration of a specific EU project and, secondly, these officials have been paid from these funds financed by EU projects. So, there's no burden on the state budget. However, what is proposed by this law is actually an important newspaper. We propose that for a period of more than a year, this is important to say, for more than a year, they can be employed in the state service of a new person in order to carry out the tasks relating to the implementation of the undertaken international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, to carry out international obligations, or to carry out the tasks relating to the implementation of the Government's specific programme until these obligations are fulfilled. I deliberately emphasized certain words in these formulations. When the proposer refused our objections to undefined formulations after the first reading debate, the complete ambiguity about how long these international obligations would last because the times are not defined, the proponent always says that this refers, in fact, to the rule of likely new employment for a certain time in order to chair the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia. However, it is well known that Croatia will chair the EU Council from 1 January to 30 June next year. In principle, it can be said that this employment will certainly take longer, that it may start as early as July 1st this year and that it will last until the end of next 2020. However, it could still be much more precise to define a time-limit for employment, and it could be said that it is for the presidency of the EU Council of the Republic of Croatia. However, there is no such wording in the legal text. It is far wider, more comprehensive, it speaks of any undertaken international commitment by the Republic of Croatia that can be linked to another international organisation that will be owned by Croatia with some increased international obligations. It was possible to read in the paper that hundreds of new employees would need from our embassy in Brussels or the Republic of Croatia to have a great interest in such employment. I am really wondering who these qualified persons that we do not have in the state service will be willing to leave some work that they now have indefinitely to take over for a certain time, for example for the duration of the EU Council presidency for a year and a half. Who will have a quality job, work indefinitely to take over work for a certain time? I didn't hear that from the promoter. And I'm really wondering if that's logical because we're actually going to get a bunch of people who are going to become employees in, not for a year and a half, but maybe a lot more, who, as we say so popularly, are going to get caught in certain positions, if you want from the embassy in Brussels to many other jobs, who's going to work on certain jobs for years because we've taken over certain international commitments, we're actually afraid that it's going to open up across the door to employ hundreds and hundreds of new employees who are actually going to be constantly renewed for a certain time. So I think we are familiar with that for a long time, there is a certain amount of time in the Croatian Parliament. I know that there are people who have been here for a certain period of time with contracts of work that have not been received indefinitely, but work, they're working here on certain, certain jobs. I don't know if he's still there right now, but I know there's been enough until recently. And which is not, of course, good for those officers who have never really regulated their working status like other officers who work indefinitely. The formulation that in order to carry out tasks in the performance of commitments under the Government's specific programme will be employed by persons in the state service is absolutely undefined. Which means special government programmes to be defined by the government's decision. So when we, as legislators, pass a law with such a provision, we cannot even know about what kind of employment additional work will be, how many additional employees will be on which programmes, on which the cost and what is at all a potential financial cost. Namely, for these categories of persons for whom employment is proposed for more than a year for a certain period of time they will be charged with the budget of the Republic of Croatia. Unlike this existing category that we have, therefore, employees working on EU-paid projects, they are not burdening the state budget, it is a qualitative difference, they are not burdening the state budget and they know that their work will end on the project for a certain period of time. So you can't say that now that we're actually just spreading similar categories, these are qualitatively different, they are in the same article, they're listed as new indents but they're not the same. This is where the state budget will be charged, and here we have undefined categories of international obligations or special government programmes, and that's not good. And we are afraid that far more such persons will now be employed at a certain time and we will not actually know the financial impact of this additional employment, and besides that transparent regular employment indefinitely as employees are employed or that they should be employed in the state administration. Finally, another provision which is not good and this is the possibility given in Article 16 is therefore to entrust business with the basis of an operating contract to service providers outside the state service. The current legal provision requires that those expenditures for providers of these professional services must not exceed 2% of the total amount of basic salaries with contributions in the current year provided for by that body. And by this law, we end those 2%. So you didn't even propose to increase that amount for operating contracts to 3%, to 4%, so you didn't even suggest twice as much, you simply lifted any limit. Therefore, the intention is obvious to spend far more money on service providers outside the state service through an operating contract. What does that tell you? So what you're actually installing is work for a certain time longer than a year and far more money obviously for contracts on the work of persons outside the state service. It's also a huge mistrust with civil servants. You knew when Croatia chaired the EU Council and you were able to educate hundreds and hundreds of civil servants more in time, send them to learn foreign languages, get to know the EU structure and you could use the potential we have in the Republic of Croatia. That would be done by someone who rationally manages the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137035	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Honored Fellow Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137036	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, co-worker and colleague, I have one small time, time split from today to Thursday when the Law on the State Administration System will be discussed here and therefore it is somewhat ungrateful to say that we as a club can support this legislative proposal, but the key debate is on Thursday. In fact, we believe that these legal proposals should come in the package, but in such a way that or time, perhaps this Law on the System of State Administration should come practically simultaneously or a little bit sooner, because there will be a series of problems that seem to me in practice will be difficult to solve, but let's put it in order. To all of us, the goal is to have an effective state administration, under my authority, that the minister spoke publicly in the broadest sense not only of state administrations, but of public administrations in general when we talk about local self-government units and their employees should have thought about a whole law that will unite or balance the situation in the Republic of Croatia. In particular, with the aim of carrying out a quality assessment of the work of state and public officials, as the public is most often mentioned the problem that although not all work equally, they receive the same salaries or those who do more, which are no longer adequately paid. I fully agree with the secretary of state and that should be pointed out here once more. In the state administration they work really hard and hardworking people, it's not fair to call them arrests, it's not fair to call them ugly names, they're doing very serious and demanding jobs, and it's up to us as legislators to let them do that job at all. We will now have the next point when we talk about the Construction Act, so you will see what illogicalities we put before people who work daily and who need to make certain decisions. Namely, they are professional people they are not political there, they should not be politically placed there, but they must sometimes make decisions that come out of the framework of their jurisdiction and what they do then, they do not make decisions and, of course, it happens that the public administration is generally unquality or less quality than it should be, so the general public assessment is. Our goal is to have quality people working in the state administration, and right now here are all those remarks that we spoke in the first reading being rejected by the ministry's representatives that are not the subject of this law. And there's nothing to argue about, but how we're going to depolitize, how we're going to do it in the frames and what's prof. The Downworlder was now speaking about new employment, how people would believe it wasn't, that the situation had escaped from the plight of nepotism, clientelism and everything else, if, if we really didn't do everything we could to ensure that reception procedures and evaluation procedures would be so. The law on the state administration system provides, I mention it because it is also mentioned in this law, predicting the depoliticalisation of the assistants that they will no longer be ministerial assistants as state officials but will be directors of the administration as state officials. Although not subject to this law is quite picturesque, they will be named public tender for 4 years. We under the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials in Article 15e. which was added later because many of us and many of our colleagues here in the assembly who took office before that time could not conclude with the employer a return contract. Article 15e. It is possible, however, to translate these civil servants into directors who are civil servants they do not have the right to conclude such a contract, they will be appointed for 4 years and then what. Well, no one here is serious in both the assembly and the state can say that someone is going to be so crazy, I'm sorry for the expression, but I have to say that they're going to go to work for four years and then they don't know what's going to happen to him. This is a vivid picture of what we need to be very careful and serious about proposing such legal proposals. In that sense, I object to this provision and we'll see on Thursday that there will be more words about it. That we're not just critics, I still don't agree in the end with Professor completely. By the way, he is right when he says that it is not clear what they are, we know that international obligations are certainly the chairmanship of the EU Council, but when the government's programmes are mentioned it can be so stretching that we do not know exactly what is going on, but I am not saying it from the point of view of criticism or assumptions of the evil intention of the government or ruling to arrest some of its people, but I am speaking from the point of view of those people who need to come, to come to work in such jobs, because this should have been more seriously approached, to flexibilize this procedure not only in relation to the time course of that work, but in relation to all those other provisions relating to civil servants, so that this employment should be really what it is. Limited employment with a certain, for those who want to work on such motivation to train, and for a representative of the state administration i.e. Ministry to do the job. Someone here said, I think a colleague on behalf of the HDZ Club is our goal to get the job done, that's the goal and that's the truth. The bureaucracy itself often leads us to forget the basic principle of why people are employed, which is to do the job. If you come to any, somewhere in the state administration, let's say if it's an entrepreneur, you'll get 10 answers very easily that something can't be done, but very little or one answer will be how something can be done. That's what we should be working on. So, people are underpaid, these provisions, if we still bring insecurity to their workplace, then it's really a question of how we're going to get quality people and how these quality people are going to stay in the state administration because we see more than half of the people leaving Croatia have jobs but are not satisfied with that status. As far as the expert exam is concerned, I welcome the provisions to which it is specified, which reduces its scope, where it is specified which is the general part, which the professional part which the candidates have to submit and may have been there in the public debate, I see that there has been a question of financing the expert exam, especially for those who repeat, I think there are no more concrete remarks, in this part it should be commended. What is also related to the very obstacle to the reception of the service and later reasons for the termination of the service, I am here as an observation in the first reading, I see that it has been rejected but is not subject to this law but it is certainly necessary to consider that people are not brought into an unfair position, depending on when they committed a certain crime. On behalf of the club here I can say there are no obstacles to this legislative proposal being supported but here we will have Thursday to express myself now, a new reading of this reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137037	I thank my colleague, Sagar. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137038	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I won't repeat the debate from the first reading, and I think it should just be said that I absolutely support and the HNS club supports the reasons for the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the Civil Service Act. The EU Presidency as the main and main reason why we have joined this, it requires, it deserves and it is our responsibility and obligation but also an opportunity for Croatia to make it through these 6 months. Which isn't really just six months. but we are now also taking part in the Presidency of the European Council, so that, with this year and a half and a half, we are really doing what we would say, we are showing ourselves in the best light but not only for showing, but also for achieving all of our foreign or intra-European objectives, but also for all of those agendas that are extremely important to us, and in particular this concerns the entry into Schengen and other European issues that have not yet been resolved. What is certainly a reason when we talk about the state and I would add there about the public servants is certainly the subject that we have heard about many times about how we have as much as in every system, in every private, public company, and ultimately in every family where there are two people, they are never the same and you can never always put them in the same basket, nor value them in the right of us, which is a new law that here and stated in the final line of reasoning that it is going towards the creation of a single Law on Officials and Publishers, and in fact there we need to solve once and for all the opportunities and receptions that I was talking about, the basic part that we receive the highest quality of staff without doubt with the highest dose and transparency in principle of the European Commission. You don't need to invent hot water, you need to establish a unique competition system for certain areas, give it to the Agency for External Evaluation and Education to work on the principle and state graduation where it's strictly clear, the rule is known, tests, don't God let something get out early, you've seen what conjectures can be, so there's no longer a shred of doubt about just running the contests, testing and then with that unique rank list, people actually appear in certain competitions to be open. And they know exactly which ones are on the list, if, by the side of them, if 280 of them are 4500, if 50 of them have appeared before them, they will not be invited, if they may be fifth, then they will be called for further discussion and consideration, and that actually allows us to have a first and basic prerequisite, which must be the goal of every state administration, which is efficiency and economics. We can't have efficiency and economics if we don't have the best possible ability to do that. As I said at first, neither two men are the same nor two brothers, so they can't be two servants, there are a lot of hardworking people, I wouldn't and would also support the secretary of state when she said that there are a lot of hardworking people, capable people who just need to be given the opportunity to work and reward them. Here when we talk about that rewarding, it's extremely important that we distinguish those who know, they can, they will, and they will give something more and better, and it needs to be evaluated, it's not some sort of an orderly, we're not all the same, it's long gone and it's a long time to appreciate the work, the effort and the ability. In the end line and knowledge. I have presented some of the proposals here and in my first reading, not accepted and I can accept the reasons why and the reasons for this law and in the extreme line that these proposals may relate to a broader coverage, I would really like to bring a single solution here, just as comprehensively as you have stated here that you will consider but I would like to do more than just consider it because this will give a perspective to our young citizens that they know that it is not what it is said, that everything is pre-arranged, that you must have some not give a God-given relationship, any on any side but really that someone with their knowledge, expertise, qualifications and competences that show on the test which is one of the most important elements of the evaluation or conditions for access to the state service that they can actually be. It can also be realistic and that we give this perspective to our young people because it is also one of the reasons why they go away and not just financial opportunities and conditions. We absolutely with these changes, I can only say about the difference between two readings, that it's good to specify that an officer who's been admitted to the state service for less than a year, that deadline to pass the exam in a year, it really doesn't make sense, it only applies to those who were accepted for more at the beginning, I'm only interested in when we have the possibility of extending then it should only be taken into account because someone can be admitted to 6 and plus 3 and then plus 3 and then it actually has to activate that obligation to pass and if he didn't know he was going to be there, maybe there should be some model that, and it's even better, by some regulation or way of doing things, because if a man was originally admitted to 6 and it was extended to another 3 months. Well, possibly three more, there's no obligation to make that bet, but if it's passed by three, he had a commitment to take over within a year, and it's already gone. And just that part of the code, it is primarily the responsibility of the heads of these services to take care of that planning and laying because it can happen to us not to blame the employee himself for not laying down something because de facto by law now doesn't even have to. We also deleted article 21 of the bill, the transfer of employees to any job if they meet the conditions including the transfer without the consent of employees to a job for which the lower level of education was prescribed, it was estimated unacceptable, I welcome it, I think that you mentioned something in the first reading and in general, we can spread the story here, talk about both public services and public servants and it is certain that there are a lot of valuable people, a lot of people, we talked, there was the Police Act if I am not mistaken and I spoke personally about these initial salaries of around 4000 kuna to average salary and that it is certain that those who work honestly, quality of my job and therefore adequately pay, because this will not reduce the conditions for the reception of the service as was the Law on police rather than increasing the possibility of progress and adequate financial rewards that we can make it more interesting and that we can say that it is more important in terms that we need to be 30%. I think that everything else, I'll stay with your explanations, not accepting some suggestions, and as far as the candidate points are concerned, and as far as these violations of easy official duties are concerned, it might be a little bit more talk, but it's not so crucial, and I think that really these two directions are important reception and then the rewarding system and evaluation and progress within the state service where it must always be given the opportunity and the promotion and motivation and, of course, the part that I have listed here, surely that in some sphere includes the users themselves, because of course, the user will always be subject to whether the subjective is positive or negatively solved to his case, he has got a solution, so he may be evaluating but he should certainly take it into account and see our own users, it is known that individuals who then shed an ugly light on all state officials and employees in the public sector know themselves that they are not suitable for their position because they are in the rule, and their purpose that we don't need to forget it. The HNS Club will, of course, accept these changes and additions because it is certain that the main objective and reason why we are doing this is justified and that we must be extremely prepared to welcome the presidency with as many expert staff as possible, so I am talking about these receptions, the more professional and quality personnel that we will then bring the best benefit to our entire country, because that sort of thing will happen to us again in 14 or 15 years, if it continues at such a pace, so that certainly all the support goes on to all our employees and of course we will continue to implement these proposals in this final proposal united in fact for all state and public officials, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137039	I thank my esteemed colleague. Before continuing the debate, welcome our guests to the gallery, respected students and students of OS Vladimir Nazor from Pazin and their professors and professors, welcome to a pleasant stay. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Vesna Pusic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. State secretary with associate, colleague and colleague. Between the first and second readings this bill did not experience any changes, technically added I mean one article in the opening work but de facto content everything we spoke and commended in the first reading remained the same but everything we criticized and sought changes in the first reading also remained the same as it was. So the proposed amendments have, in one piece, really to do with the Croatian Presidency of the European Council, and in this part they are rational and they make sense. I would say that in another dimension of rationality when it comes to this flexibility in the employment of civil servants, Croatia will have many different first international obligations or obligations related to its membership in international organisations or specialised projects, and it is good that it is possible to hire civil servants on projects to say so, so for the duration of the project, it is good for the projects themselves to stop worrying about how you will do business, stop being educated, stop learning things that should be learned including foreign languages is wrong and has survived. Most of the young generation, if you look at our children's generations, doesn't look at employment as our generation has seen, and that's once you get a job somewhere, that's where you sit until retirement. They are changing jobs, requalified and we need people in the state service and with new knowledge, and we need a mechanism of choice and selection of people who show quality and good, especially since wages are not tempting to say, so they are not wages that could attract people to sit there especially people with additional knowledge and qualifications, to sit there indefinitely. So, what is positive is that this possibility of a contract for a certain period of time that can last for more than one year if it is a specific project for a person to work on, that civil servants can be moved to other suitable places in accordance with job requirements, that is something that even in industry is predicted and I don't see why it wouldn't be possible in the state service. So I'm sure it's positive. However, there are also a number of questionable changes or a series of changes that are not logical and not functional. They're mostly about the central problem of one being introduced by this law, which is that in a way, cars are placed in front of horses. So that many things that have been regulated so far by the Law on Civil Service are now being transferred to the Law on Salaries and are regulated by the Law on Salaries, which in some places is completely incomprehensible why it is so. In fact, the Law on Salaries should in some ways be a derivative of the Law on Civil Servants, what is required of people, what is set as criteria for advancement, for further education or further education. If people do so, they should also make their salaries or raise or reduce wages or any sanctions. In this, this law shows that it is changing and instead of defining criteria in, and for punishing and rewarding and for making progress and everything else in this law, and those rules then also introduce conconsequences in wages, so as to reflect it and financially, it is done vice versa. So, you don't throw out a number of these things here, I'm going to mention some of that and say it's going to be defined in the Pay Law, and then it's going to reflect on the position of civil servants. Some minor remarks, let's say, are being thrown out to publish competitions not only on websites, but so far there has been a national daily, or on a daily list, which national distribution, is being abolished and published only now in the National Journals and Web Sites of the Ministry. This is what we think is simply an additional challenge to people's lives or the possibility of people applying to competitions for the state service that de facto represents a minimum cost and we believe that it should be kept in mind that it is true that many people are using the Internet, but that they are going to go to the Ministry's website is not particularly convincing right now. So we think this should be kept. I'm going to take a few examples of this car problem in front of the horses. Therefore, Article 17 now deletes the evaluation solutions for civil servants, also Article 18 states that there is no more classification of civil servants' posts except exceptional in the case of management posts. If we want to find the answer why is that, why is it being thrown out of this law? The explanation is it'll be in the Payments Act. This is a good, good example for you, we consider it a very bad solution and we believe that it should be exactly the opposite as I said the Law on Salaries should be managed and respected and implemented from the classification of civil servants to be defined in this law. Secondly, when it comes to assessing what is needed and showing itself in a number of earlier examples, and when it comes to regulation of judicial work, we have experienced this particularly in that famous reform of the judiciary when we were preparing for EU membership, clear criteria must be in this law. Anything you leave to the different rules, so later on, it will be settled by the rule that ends in the end with a lot of arbitraryity and arbitration. So, a lot of unclear criteria that leave space that if someone for any reason is likable or in any other related relationship can promote him and he is not able to sanction him, and he is not able to be aware in advance and have insight into the criteria by which that person will therefore be evaluated and therefore I think that the experience so far speaks in favour of the fact that these criteria are defined by law, and they do not allow rules, especially since this is an evaluation and a basis for progress and for wages, but also for other forms of stimulation, so to school, to go to international meetings, seminars, etc., all that benefits one person in improving their knowledge and finally and to be able to make further progress. Article 19 once again confirms the removal of a clear classification of posts. By Article 28, the fulfilment of the conditions for progress shall be subject to the Payments Act. So, it's completely wrong in the opinion of the GLAS and HSU Club, why pay law is being hung up instead of progressing to schooling, job results, efficiency at work, and pay if you're good at your job, pay is a derivative. Then if you get positive grades as a result and a better and higher salary. So that should result in a better salary. How can the conditions for advancement be regulated by the Payments Act? It almost makes this law completely unnecessary, so it should be one of the basics of this law that is precisely the fact that the regulation of conditions for progress and evaluations when people have done better their jobs, better education and then, of course, reward them with wages. What is particularly incomprehensible, and in our opinion, it is absurd to separate rewards and penalties. Rewards are regulated or said here will be regulated by the Law on Payments, and penalties for minor violation of official duty are regulated by this law. So, the assessment of whether someone bad or good is doing their job you've separated into two different laws and there we don't see what logic is, we think that each other should be in this law, and then, as I said, the Pay Law should just be derived from those criteria. A newspaper is being introduced, and I would say about the tenant, or they are approaching them by much of the status of civil servants, which is a special topic, and I think that this topic should be discussed specifically, and what it means. Another topic that is not determined by this law, but is said to be determined by the rule of law, and also by the experience of judicial reform, has shown that when it is left to the rules, it becomes a matter of arbitration and how it is liked and that it is therefore de facto the only way you can regulate it so that people can rely as much on objectivity as they can, and that it is determined by law, which is the content and methods of state examination. The reform of the judiciary began in a good way because a small number of points were set for the topic of oral interview, so where arbitration is possible and greater for the written test. As the points received from the oral interview were expanded, so the reform de facto fell and therefore taught by this experience here should define it by law, not regulation. Also, the evaluation here will define the exact criteria by the implementing regulation, also in our opinion, should be laid down by law. In conclusion, the classification and assessment regulation in our opinion, therefore, the opinion of GLAS and HSU should be left in this law and not in the Law on Salaries and the Law on Payments should be treated as a derivative. And finally, the final article says the law takes effect on the eighth day of its publication in the National Journal, except for 36% of the law. Therefore, more than a third of the laws of this law do not take effect by publication in the National Journal, but when other conditions are met. This raises the question why this law is being passed at the moment, instead of the laws on which its implementation depends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137041	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137042	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, the respected secretary of state, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, I meant actually started what Mrs. Pusic ended up with, and that is that this amendment to the Law on State Servants in its most important part actually takes effect when this law is passed. One of them is the State Administration System Act, which will be passed relatively quickly by my assessment and the other is the Law on the salaries of civil servants who have been in the process of adopting the last 18 years. In the process of passing, of talking to unions, of designing various formulas, and in that sense, I am not sure that the government's priority will be to argue with trade unions in the election year. It kind of doesn't make sense to me. So such a law would, will be passed when no one's salary will fall, and some will grow, that is, and in the last here's how many 18 years these conditions have not yet been created. Otherwise, the law has often been held in debates, whether in government bodies, whether with trade unions, twice or in this assembly, but the law has not yet seen the light of day. Why? Because it's much easier for the government to continue the Coefficient Regulation that has changed since then, which has also been temporary, which has changed thirty-and-a-half times, it seems to me, about forty, that there's an official who knows what the consolidated text looks like, that's what it does, and there's no reason why it's not, not now, and she's usually been a kind of self-service to the various ministers who asked the Ministry of Administration to recognize the specificity of jobs in their ministry, and when that pressure on the Ministry of Administration doesn't fully bear fruit, then he was a Joker and then they convinced the government that it was exactly, that it was. As for the part of this Law which speaks of salaries and these articles that enter into force when the Law of Salaries enters into force, I think that this is one kind, let's say, the preparation and cleaning of the Law on Employees and the preparation of the Law on Salaries whenever it is, therefore, a kind of nomotechnical gymnastics because it could be done and in a way that when it comes into force, the Law on Salaries is prescribed in the transitional provisions to cease to apply the provisions of the Law on civil servants, it is however no matter how it will be written. The second part concerns the important part of the Law, therefore the real reason why this Law is now being adopted, which is to facilitate or extend the duration of the service to employees who are employed in business, as it writes international obligations, the implementation of the international obligations of the Republic of Croatia, although a colleague of the Republic of Croatia has noticed that this is a little too broad term, and that it would be more correct to write this down, which is the Presidency of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Therefore, this part of the Law is somewhat more justified for the adoption of certain reserves of course around too wide, too wide formulations. As far as the state exam is concerned, so it's about modernising the existing provisions of the law, I don't think there's much to object to that solution. What I pointed out in my first reading is Article 30, which is that a small press release has been placed on the executive officers who, if they do not launch the written proposal, do not submit a written motion to initiate the procedure because of a minor violation of the official duty, then it is their violation of the official duty, and then has a perpetum of the mobile if this superior does not launch the written proposal then he also committed a violation of the official duty, and then his superior, so the latter in a series would technically be able to launch a written proposal for an easy injury, and so one perpetum of the mobile would have reached the minister that he should then initiate the entire hierarchy procedure for a written proposal for an easy violation of official duty because the lowest in the chain was not, was not launched. I think it's unnecessary to put pressure on the executive officers, but I objected to it in my first reading, and the promoter stayed with that proposal, so we'll see in practice how it's going to be, how it's going to be submitted. So the part about paying, it's just something that's been trying to do for twenty years, or 18 years, but there's one American proverb, which is that if something hasn't been broken, it's not fixed, and I think all governments, including this one, have stuck to that principle, since there's not been some big, too much pressure to change it because it's always changed just by individual interventions to increase someone's wages. If there is such a bad situation in the country, then it is smaller for everyone, and not only for some, so it is less reduction, so it will be interesting to follow this part of the adoption of the Law of Salaries, which would arrange the salaries of civil servants, and then after the payment of civil servants, this Law is actually only the starting part, because then there is always the Collective Contract, and then what has not entered into the Law is each of, or in this case, state officials trying to elect by a collective contract that costs, and then each Excessive and individual situation gives new ideas for amendments to the Collective Contract, such as this with the presentation of fellow Pernar and these other corporate representatives from the Parliament, and then again, instead of the Law, it goes to the Collective Contract. When the Law is passed and the Collective Contract is concluded, then we come to the public service agenda, which is much more than civil servants, and then the military in particular, and then collective agreements for, these grand collective agreements, and then doctors asked for a professional collective contract, so each, every incurring, this kind of attempt to systematically encroach on the pay system of a wider group opens up a large number of outstanding issues, or new issues involving all other ministers. So, if something were to change for civil servants, I suppose the health minister would be exposed to the request of the health union to comply with their rights, and then the Minister of Demography would be faced with the requirements of the social union to do so, so the Minister of Education with the requirement of education, so the job of regulating the system pays in the country is something that, at the end of the day, all comes to the prime minister or at least his deputy or vice president of the government, and that requires a really big legislative procedure that no one will really risk in the election year, unless it really leads to a general increase in salaries to all employees, if that happens, then the public would estimate that this is too much spending on the state administration, that the state is wasteful and that it could be minus political. In this regard, the SDP's Club of Representatives will be abstentioned on the adoption of this law, so we estimate that since a third of the law enters into force, we do not know when, and that this important part is only about employment for the purposes of the EU presidency, and that it has been overrated in this respect by our reserves through abstention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137043	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. In the name of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and SNAGE esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137044	Amendments and additions to the Law on civil servants will not solve the main problem, which is the half-tronic relationship within the pyramid of power in state structures. In fact, the state as such functions as one pyramid, but unfortunately at its peak are not politicians who are nominally in the leading positions but are foreign structures, they are actually making decisions. And the civil servants are actually there in a servant's relationship because they can only reflect the will of those at the top. They live in fear of being fired if they say anything, etc. We actually have one culture of silence, censorship, and you would dare say autocensorship. Autocensorship is even scarier than censorship because classical censorship prevents you from saying what you think, but in self-censorship, people like that don't dare say or say what they think. Finally, we come to the success of various harmful projects and that we in Croatia actually live under continuous violence by institutions. The collection of electricity, water and gas is an institution's violence. We're rich in water, rising water prices. Where's the logic? The price of gas falls on the international market in Croatia, the price of gas rises. The same thing is with electricity, HEP has a profit of over 2 billion kuna per year, so apparently HEP has enough money, electricity prices are rising. The question arises why is it so, or why does the civil servants not cry out loud that it is one crazy development? The answer to this question stems from their function, which is that by working for the state they are no longer free and independent personality structures but are somehow forced to be on the line of their employer. A state where few people are in private, and many people in the public sector are not a free state because all those people who work in the public sector, all those people who are dependent on political power, they are not as free. And by the way, we as a society aren't free either. What you would have hurried as one of the problems is certainly the situation in Konjščina, namely how far you are directed but in Konjščina you plan to build a burner and that after the construction of the same in Resnik has been refused. Now the ruling structures want to make that same burner just a little further. The logic of things requires that every person with a healthy consciousness should raise his voice, both ministry officials and civil servants in all possible agencies, institutions and ordinary citizens. However, people who work in institutions or civil servants are not allowed to tell the obvious truth, and the obvious truth is that the solution to the waste and its separate collection, or its recycling, and that the burner, if in theory and exist, can only be so to say the way in which you will process maybe 5% of the waste that you can't do in any other way. So when, say, separate paper, bio-waste, glass, plastic and metal, let's just say something that if it stays you don't know what you're going to do with that hypothetically to burn it. In Croatia, however, we do not have such a recycling system and civil servants who should point out that they do not point to, they are simply part of one network, a network that has that law silently unwavered, simply everyone is silently minding their own business, and in the meantime the state is failing, directing, people are moving out of it, and finally because of this catastrophic waste management policy, the people of Konjscina are threatening unfortunately and poisoning through the combustion plant. And that's why we in the Living Wall want to say that any change to the Law on civil servants who will go after the state officials to get more freedom in terms of expressing their opinion we will support it. However, these amendments to the law do not change relations within the pyramid of power, do not change the state of consciousness at all, these changes of law will not change the attitude of civil servants towards other residents or those in need of services of the same state. These changes are only one in a long series of laws in which the legislator or state itself deals and regulates certain internal relations, which will not affect the citizens themselves at all. For this reason, I call on all citizens or voters not to support in the elections the parties holding the ladder to this system but to remove the ground under the feet or ladder on which that system stands. The Voice for the Living Wall is a voice for a different Croatia and a voice for a system where people can feel free to think or say what they think, unfortunately, this torture of opinion today has entered almost all institutions. He said in his time Željko Pervan the famous comedian, that on HRT the situation was never worse, so it was his own subjective assessment, but it's not that thing Zeljko Pervan, it's not that thing at all about HRT, it's here literally about the whole society. Teachers are afraid to say in schools what they think, college professors, people who work at the Ministry, cops are afraid to say what they think, soldiers, simply the whole society is forced to live in fear by their employer, and that's the state. Unfortunately, since it's managed outside of us, it's no longer a mother, but in a way it's become a stepmother who treats us maternally, so instead of protecting our rights, working for our interests, it's simply working against us. I would, of course, like to apologize to all the stepmoms or stepmoms and fathers who love children for whom they care, I mean nothing negative about them here, but I am talking about the maternal relationship in a figurative sense, because such a language structure is respected in our people. Every good one of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137045	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137046	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This law, as we have heard, actually has this fundamental purpose with these amendments to prepare Croatia for these obligations that stand as countries in the Presidency of the European Union, and that part should be welcomed and would no longer be looked at. However, I would perhaps like to say something that has been missed by this opportunity to at least open or especially highlight one other responsibility of civil servants and tenants, which is what we all want and what we seek to ensure that the state administration is at the service of citizens. So here, in my view, it should open up here with at least one principled position of responsibility and the obligation of civil servants to solve the problems of citizens in a way that when someone in a figurative sense comes to the counter with their problem, they should not be faced with the answer that certain problems are indeterminate because the laws are unsecured or that existing solutions under the Law are in a certain, in a certain percentage contrary to the spirit of the Law, or that several laws are mutually conflicted because we know that, given this great production of the Law that we have, this is also happening. The answer should be, in such cases, a possible solution should be so that officials and tenants are also bound by their structure, or their hierarchy, to propose and advocate solutions to address these problems. If we don't make it possible, what are we facing? Either by the politics of the state or government, or by the Ministry, must constantly predetermin these laws when the number of outstanding problems has accumulated so much that they become a public problem or that the media that monitor such cases by logic imposes and calls the state administration and the competent ministries to solve these problems, and in one case or another, we are actually faced with having to deal with affairs of greater or less scope. It would be normal for all civil servants, regardless of the classification, to be higher, lower or executive, to be responsible for the efficiency and work of the state administration. The obligation should therefore be that, in the case of a rule of law, the dysfunction of legal provisions or conflict provisions, all those working in the state administration should simply be obliged to warn and have a response to clients or users when their, in what way, problem will be solved. You have here and such benign things as that every law, namely not every single one but certain laws prescribe medical examinations and then one person in six months has to go to a medical examination usually in the same, especially when it comes to small environments in the same infirmary in order to get a medical examination as a fireman or as a hunter, or I don't know about a driver's license, and three times it has to do because the Law says these medical examinations are, certificates about an examination can only be used for one purpose and not more. So on this one, I would like to point out to a small example that someone must constantly warn that these laws must either be leveled or that those adjustments must work. What one other termology might say is that, it means, the obligation is that the system itself must be corrected, to establish this feedback that will correct the behaviour of that system. They are out, some solutions are in practice in some countries, it is always known that the law cannot predict all possible cases, and sometimes it is contrary to the spirit of the law if these provisions are strictly adhered to. Therefore, it should be seen how to define the problem of precedents in order to resolve matters and not put them in a drawer, or should those who cannot solve their problem become in the existing law, should in certain cases know the answer to when the amendment of the law or the adoption of the new law will come on the agenda. This one engagement is a responsibility for an effective system, in my opinion, it is crucial also to evaluate, evaluate and advance civil servants because if this segment is not taken into account, then it remains an evaluation and progress primarily in formal terms and procedures, and not so much in what should be, in my opinion, a crucial contribution to improving, amending and supplementing the laws and procedures and functioning and efficiency of the state administration. It's a clear thing that digitization is going to solve some of these problems that I'd like to warn you about, but some contradictions, conflicts, irregularities of the law, they won't. I therefore believe that one of the principles of such a provision should be introduced into this law so that the sublaws of that provision can then specify and elaborate more precisely, but also within the framework of the state administration, which is not the subject of this law, but in that law should then define the body which will be the address where either citizens or civil servants or civil servants and subsistences could propose or warn about indeterminates so that at that inter-resor level between the ministry they know who is responsible for the harmonisation of certain legal provisions. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137047	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Gordan Maras, gone, losing his right to debate. Next is the debate of Mira Bulja, he is gone, he is losing his right to debate, so the next one will speak to the respected representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137048	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Ma'am. Secretary of State with an associate, there's one in front of us to say apparently technical law. However, a law that regulates those who are very often targeted by anger and Croatian citizens, many times unwarranted, and today we have had the opportunity to see and hear some try to push something into this law that simply doesn't belong to it. So perhaps in proposing such laws along with these technical provisions that clearly regulate certain things, I think, above all, about the salaries and formation of leading officials in the state administration, will regulate some other laws. However, this law also provides for something that is expected in the Republic of Croatia in some future times and gives the possibility of a quality solution to that, but I say, very often the state administration is mentioned in a negative context, very often those who speak do not understand what is the difference between a state official and a state-run manager, and then there are a lot of problems, so today we have even had a sense of the possibility of mentioning the leaders of some institutions etc. However, what should definitely be mentioned with these technical provisions and a clear definition is how many thousands of people will be applied to this law? That's very important. Why? Because there are collective agreements and some other laws that define the rights of those officers. And what's very important, and there were some colleagues who used to talk to me who used to work in state institutions is pay or reward, even punishment for those who work in the state administration. So, this law stipulates that this will be regulated by the Law on Salaries, and it may be a shame that we don't have all three laws in the package today, then it is likely that the debates of those who have a good view of this and want help would be both more meaningful and more quality and better. This is how we talk about civil servants, and it's just impossible to touch the Law of Salutation. Why? Because, I say, we are aware of the facts, once justified, and once unwarranted dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens because simply these civil servants are primarily in the offices of the state administration, which are located by units of local self-government, the first contact of Croatian citizens in principle with the state administration. And the state administration can function fantasticly. However, if you come for a piece of paper, it doesn't matter, I won't say it now at all, it's vital to you and it's very important to you and this story is stalled, you are automatically dissatisfied with the functioning of the state administration. Why? Because she didn't adequately respond to what you needed. So, on the one hand, it's a understandable dissatisfaction of whoever expects it, and on the other hand it's not good to generalise and qualify for hard work and honest work and quality work, so finally, and this law that we're talking about today is the product of normators at the Ministry of Administration, they made it, they're civil servants. So, we have every day an opportunity to discuss the product, we as parliamentary representatives of these civil servants, because these laws they work in this in the ministries, but I say that first contact with citizens, with the state administration is right in the offices of the state administration which at this point may be frankly speaking the most unclearly defined their status and position have remained somewhere because of the unclear status of local self-government in the county and that office of the state administration in some kind of an air-free space. Once the mayor took care of these state offices, the offices of the state administration then the European Commission gave us little by the fingers said we couldn't have a local and state administration in one and that it had to be separated. I say that's something that should be, it's the first contact of Croatian citizens with the state administration. Also what is good and I want to make it clear here as a member of the ruling party, and in a certain way an additional argument is given to the Croatian Government, for the first time it is clearly stated in the law that there is a need for something, for something and that it needs to be prescribed by law. Not because you would hire a large, large thousands of new people, why, because it simply can't happen because the first thing that, to happen, is the debate on the state budget. If you see an increase in an item in the state budget, then it is clear that someone intends to do something, then it is an opportunity to say that it must not be done or that it should be explained why it was done. So here, legally, he wants to get ahead of some of the things that some of the predecessors have been doing. So in 2010, we had a law on where ministerial assistants became directors, so someone didn't like it, so someone came, so I said when I came to power, I wanted people to come with me and then they were in cabinets and people were hiring everywhere, but it wasn't regulated by law. And when you put a clear indication into the law that because of Croatia's position, at the end of a huge job that awaits both politics and the state administration of Croatia in a few months, and when we legally want to speed it up and give the possibility that this will be resolved in time, there will be criticism. The criticisms of those who simply don't understand how the system works. And that's why I'm saying maybe when these laws are passed, these kind of legal provisions that are being passed and can be questionable because someone abuses them, maybe some things need to be made clearer, more clearly written that everyone sees simply what they're talking about. Also, with the state examination, it is good to separate the medium professional prepared from the high professional training. Why, because simply the level of jobs and responsibilities and ultimately the powers of a civil servant, you must know that the different powers of civil servants with medium professional training and those with high professional training and so on, the level of questioning, their examinations on the state exam simply must be different. However, what I miss or in this law somewhere else, which is the education of these people, because we are aware of how many laws we have daily here, how much they change, and we simply have to get those people we said was the first contact of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs with the state administration we simply need to educate them to be familiar with everything and to be ready to respond to certain changes to what citizens expect. Salary, watch for a long time, this fellow also mentioned the problem of wages in the state administration is as public service as it is and let's be honest these people are inadequately paid, that is clear to say. But the Law of Salutations simply needs to be finally eliminated, and I don't think anyone in this assembly is against it, that they can reward those who work quality and what good, and also that someone who's hired in the state service doesn't have to mean that it's a job for life and that they can't do anything, that no one can do anything to him. And the other thing is not to pay for a chair where someone sits and that formation belongs somewhere, but to pay for things that this civil servant or some public services does because see if there's someone sitting in the MUP that belongs to the intervention police and now he's not going out when they're rioting and this whole thing has exposure both to life like this and to that kind of thing, but he's sitting in the office, but he belongs here and the pay supplement has one in health or somewhere else. So that's what the Pay Law just has to solve, because that's what I'm gonna end up with. The aim of this law and these two laws that should be passed in some future times is, in my opinion, the professionalisation and depolitisation of the state administration. And to professionalise the state administration and quality people in the state administration we can't have if we won't give them education, if we won't give them quality working conditions and we won't ultimately pay them quality pay, because it's simply something that's impossible and logical that those who are good will go somewhere else and the private sector will, and how already formed experts will pay rather than that these people have to be educated. And that's what simply watching this law and others should be our sole goal. So, depolitisation, professionalization of the state administration, I sincerely hope that these two laws that come after this law go in this direction and that we will no longer allow ourselves to be attacked and called by people who once and in quite inadequate conditions work and how complex and responsible work and good and quality do it both colleagues and colleagues do it when we talk about this law to talk about people who are first meeting citizens, entrepreneurs or anyone who wants to do something with the state administration and generally with the state administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137049	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137050	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear fellow Shucker, I think you've detected one good thing when you're talking about spending contact and impression of citizens about the work of the state administration, so I'd say public administrations, that's exactly what they're meeting for the first time on that counter, and it's just important that these people who represent in the end state and all and that institution, the total in which they work, all of us and very important these people are adequately paid, adequately stimulated and motivated. And on the other hand, we have mechanisms for those who have found that they are not doing their job. It's most important, rewarding those who work, and having the opportunity to thank those who don't want, can't, won't or have any other reason why they didn't do something right. Because I think today is extremely and difficult to find a better fit, motivate him in the work of the state administration, and of course especially when those people get there, welcome their pension and what they say only, death or their own resignation can come out of the state... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137051	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137052	Yes, colleague Curai, we agree and it is not the subject of this law, but it is the subject of a provision on the law that says that this is no longer regulated by this law, but will be regulated by the Law of Salaries. And exactly what you're talking about can only be regulated by the pay law. We must finally understand that in the state administration we must pay for work, not for the formality of something. And if that's the way we're acting, the laws we're making, then that state administration, too, will be more effective. And what's very important is that by bringing the OIB in by informing the state administration, we should have prevented that pilgrimage of citizens from door to door. You're making some kind of request,... It would simply be official, through the OIB and IT links, to obtain all data, then Croatian citizens would be very pleased with the functioning of the state administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137053	The next replica, the esteemed representative of Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137054	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Shuker, I sign all of what you have said about wages and the elements that should be established when determining salaries and I believe that both rewards and penalties will be very measurable criteria for the Law of Salaries. However, I would like to say once again that what is regulated by this law is important that the reasons why we have made this work possible for a certain, longer than a year, just to make the system work better, and not for the last year to have a man, who is inside, who has qualified, would stop his work contract, and we would have to go back to the competition. So this enables where there will be a longer need the system to be more efficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137055	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137056	Yes, colleague Jelkovac, I'm glad you've pointed that out twice. That's what you said in the debate on behalf of the club and now individually, because it's actually in the replica it's just something that needs to be pointed out. As a counterargument to those who claim that this electoral law will carry out strong employment. So, simply this law provides for something, needs, in the state administration of the Republic of Croatia, which will happen in the future. And just those people doing that job had to have security. He's aware he's come to do it, that and that. And if that lasts for two years, the question is what happens after two years, but if you give him a year, and that whole story lasts for another year, another year, a year and a half, you create a certain uncertainty, because he's not sure that someone isn't going to, not for some real reason, but for some unfair and unfair reason, to remove and hire someone else. So it's an exclusive provision that guarantees quality and professionalism something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137057	Thank you now for the gallery, students and students of OS Clay. ... The next replica is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137058	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you said that the first meeting of citizens with the state administration is already creating a picture of the state, but also of whether he, a citizen, has feedback, when and at what speed his problem will be solved. However, in order for this to be achieved, that official must also be responsible for the functioning of that State, and there must be a response procedure, which cannot be answered at the same time as it is set. Thus, depolitisation, the state administration, starts right at the moment of the first meeting, when it becomes the responsibility of all those participants in the state administration. What I think is missing is the definition of that chain, the answer, that is, the chain of responsibility from the lowest, from the lower official, to... or the government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137059	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Schooker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137060	... Then we predicted that the state administration would be informed and that there would be a register in the tax administration that would collect all the information and will be signed, a clear protocol with all the shares of the state administration, the way in which the data was exchanged. [[Specially enabled.]] And that should have been eliminated completely, that citizens have to knock on 10 doors in order to significantly reduce it and eliminate it until the end. And so the citizens that we, by law, have brought to this House of Highs, clearly defined how to obtain a certain certificate to a particular piece of paper can come, that someone does not drag it into a month, two, three, five and ten, but that it is clear in which time he can get that paper. And then the one that I'm going to say is the first contact in the state administration, in the public administration offices with the state administration, we're going to be, we're going to have a better quality, and the citizens will certainly be more satisfied, because their problem is most important to them at that moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137061	Thank you. The next replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have rightly stated that this law should be observed together with the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on the Rights and Relationships of State officials, which we will discuss on Thursday, because he, along with these two laws, is on the trail of depoliticalisation and professionalization of the state administration. ... With this set of laws, we return not to the solutions that we have yet drawn in 2010 when we have set the level to which administrative structures can be changed in the ministry and other state bodies when changing government. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's when we said that the leaders, the administration, the directorate or whatever we want, let's call these administrative organisations, should not be subject to changes in government, but the leaders of these administrations should be the most educated, best educated, most educated civil servants. So, in that sense, I am clearly looking at this law and on the other hand. It is clear that it should be consistent with their salaries. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137063	Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137064	Look at my colleague Bacic. I fully agree with you here. Write this law should be highly professional, so to speak, creatively educated, it's so-called. Normatives in the state administration to make a quality law. And if you don't provide these people with security and good pay, and especially to the leaders, but by changing political power, these leaders are changing very often, and people who haven't worked very closely in that industry so far, it would be logical that you don't have the quality of work. But the economic recovery programme from 2010 was about to prevent that, therefore, from putting professional people at the head of the state administration for the simple reason that they are working in the interest of the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. Someone else when he took power in 2012 simply eliminated it with a saying I came, I'm carrying a political responsibility, I'll hire whoever I want. And then it's not the civil servants' fault, it's the one who did it in 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137065	Thank you very much. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Pernar, but he's not there, so he's losing his right to debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137066	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on the fact that in Croatia civil servants, when they expose the crime of state officials, they happen to be away from the service. I was here at HS on several occasions talking about the case of diplomat Damir Sablak, an employee of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, who discovered the illegal spending of money at the Embassy in Canberra and Washington. The man in the system warned his superior for over a year, no one reacted. When he addressed HS, I initiated a meeting of the Anti-Corruption Council at which the chief inspector of the ministry admitted that broken rules and respected vice president, instead of Damir Sablak being rewarded for professionalism and patriotism because he exposed criminal activities at the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, he is away from the service. To make it worse, when I asked Prime Minister Plenkovic in HS, he sent a message from the highest position in the state here in the highest body that such performances usually lead to nothing. In the end, however, Prime Minister Plenkovic replaced the secretary-general of the ministry who participated in these activities, but we do not have an epilogue. On the same day that I asked that question, the DORH rejected criminal charges, which means that the DORH functions as the prime minister tells him, the performances don't lead to anything, and then we'll reject that criminal application without Mr Sabek being questioned, and until today, he's been given no insight into the solution to reject criminal charges. And the minister refuses to answer my question for a full six months. which violates the Rules of Procedure of the HS, and I beg you, chair, to react, to receive the final answer. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to this representative question. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137067	Thank you very much. Sure, I'll give you a break. I'll see you at 12.38. [[It's 12:30.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.38 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's already 12.38 passed significantly, unfortunately, there's no colleagues of Grumoja here, even if he was here before, so he loses his right to debate, and that's when I'm going to conclude the debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when the conditions come to pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137069	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day, we are starting with a point of the agenda: - Declaration on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, second reading, P.Z. Number 516. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists and MP Sonja Cikotic. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Administration, Katica Prpić to show us about the first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please welcome the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137070	Thank you very much. I welcome you all from the heart, meaning on the basis of the Constitution, the decision of the Constitutional Court, the Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, shall submit the following amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137071	Ma'am. Prpić, please be aware of the first amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137072	Yeah, I'm sorry, the amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as the committee's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137073	As well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137074	The committee's explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137075	The board's explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137076	HS, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137077	Okay, read us the explanation. Do you? No, I don't. Okay, Amendment Proposer, please make your point, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137078	So we disagree and ask for a vote since now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137079	Okay, thanks. We're moving on to the second amendment of the Most Representatives' Club. Here's the secretary of state. Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137080	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137081	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137082	Just like you got in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137083	Thank you. I'd like to ask my colleague Grumo to come forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137084	So we're not accepting the government's position and we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137085	Thank you very much. I'd like an explanation for the third amendment of MOST, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137086	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137087	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137088	It's the same as in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137089	Thank you. Dear comrade Grmoya, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137090	We don't accept and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137091	Thank you very much. Fourth Amendment of the Most, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137092	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137093	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137094	It's the same as in the materials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137095	Thank you very much. My dear comrade Grmoya, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137096	We're not taking it, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137097	Thank you very much, Fifth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137098	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137099	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137100	Same as in the materials obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137101	Thank you very much. My dear comrade Grmoya, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137102	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137103	Thank you very much, comrade Grmoy. Sixth Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137104	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137105	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137106	Same as in the materials obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137107	Thank you. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137108	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137109	Thank you very much. Seventh Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most, please welcome the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137110	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137111	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137112	Same as in the materials obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137113	Thank you very much. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137114	We're not taking it, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137115	Thank you very much. 8th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137116	The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137117	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137118	Same as in the materials obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137119	Thank you very much. My dear comrade Grmoya, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137120	We're not taking it, we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137121	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the amendment of Honored Representative Sonja Cikotic, please welcome the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137122	The amendment is not accepted, same as in the materials obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137123	All right, I see the motionary's gone, so we'll vote, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137124	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, second reading, P.Z. No. 516. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, my colleagues and colleagues, I'm asking you that we can work normally, we can't speak out loud. May I have your attention, please? So, after the debate was concluded, the government submitted the amendment in accordance with Article. 199. Rules of Procedure. The amendment tabled must be agreed by most MPs. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137125	Mr. President, I think there's been a slight. Yesterday we had an argument... There was another debate about Mr. Kuštević. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did you forget him by accident or what? And when do we vote on him? [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137126	Well, that's for me to decide. Have a seat. I am voting on a proposal to hold a debate on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Thank you very much.]] Please, let's vote. I find that we have unanimously, 104 votes in favour of holding a debate on the amendment of the government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would like to ask the Honorable State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, Katica Prpic, to give an explanation of the amendment submitted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137127	Thank you very much, well-respected president of HS, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted an amendment in a way that in Article. The 47th words ‘that provision. 20th and 37th, which enter into force on the date of entry into force of the new law governing the system of state administration," is deleted. Since the new Law on the System of State Administration enters into force before the proposed Law amending and supplementing the Law on Civil Servants is in force, part of the final provision in the part in which the provisions are prescribed. On the 20th and 37th days of the new law, which will regulate the system of state administration. Deleting part of the text from Art. The 47th final draft of the law proposed by this amendment, provisions of Art. The 20th and 37th days of entry into force of the proposed law will take effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137128	I'm opening a debate on the government's amendment. If there's no debate, I'm closing the debate, so I'm voting on the government's amendments. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 30 abstentions and 1 against the government's amendment and it becomes an integral part of the final bill. We will now move to a decision on the other amendments submitted by the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and Representative Sonja Cikotic. We had a statement earlier in the session, so we move on to the vote on amendments. Let's take it in a row. The first is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists Government does not accept, so we must vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 2 of the same club the government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Three, the government doesn't accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 4, same club, government doesn't accept it. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. The same club is not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Let's go to Amendment No. 6th, the same club the government doesn't accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Seven. The government doesn't accept. Please, let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. And Amendment No. 8. The same club the government does not accept. He didn't get the votes he needed. We have one amendment from Sonja Cikotic, the government does not accept it, please let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. So I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants. Please vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 2 abstentions and 40 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law by civil servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137129	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's already 12.38 passed significantly, unfortunately, there's no colleagues of Grumoja here, even if he was here before, so he loses his right to debate, and that's when I'm going to conclude the debate on this point, and we're going to vote on it when the conditions come to pass. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.38 HOURS]] I'd agree. 247. The Rules of Procedure, which was proposed by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, to conduct the following two points a united discussion, are: - The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 623. ... And you weren't there. [[The incursion from the assembly is not understood.]] But in 38 I said it was starting, we started on time and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 624. [[Incursion from the assembly: in 39, here we come]] Do you agree with that proposal? No one's against it, then I guess we are. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the proposing that these legislative proposals be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 1(1). 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and by the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yes, separately for both laws will be given by respected state secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning Dunja Magas and Daniel Meštric. First respected secretary of state, Magash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137130	The adoption of this law will simplify, speed up and facilitate the process of setting up local permits or improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning, which will affect the cost-effectiveness of investing in building buildings for different purposes, thereby increasing the number of investments in the Republic of Croatia, which will lead to strengthening competitiveness and resulting in a positive impact on the position of the Republic of Croatia on the competitiveness scale. The main issues covered by this law are the content and importance of data on the information system of spatial order, the development and adoption of spatial plans of a new generation, the production and adoption in electronic form, the participation of public legal bodies of the activities of the Office for Spatial Planning, the content of spatial plans, the conditions for planning space, the possibility to adopt spatial plans, the making and the adoption of changes and the addition of spatial plans, and the implementation of spatial plans adopted under the laws applicable before the Spatial Regulation Act of 2013; Communication in the process of producing and adopting spatial plans by electronic means, making an idea project in electronic form, and reducing its content and cost of production, liberating investors from the obligation to obtain specific conditions and conditions of accession, which are the condition for issuing a local authorisation. A procedure to determine the specific conditions and conditions of accession in such a way as to ensure their speedy determination or determination within the prescribed time limits and to reduce the costs of their determination. Communication between public authorities which determine the specific conditions and conditions of accession, bodies issuing local permits and designers by electronic means. Filling in legal gaps related to the nosetriification of the idea project and the report on the state of the space. The issuing of a local authorisation or facilitating the issuing of building permits for phase and stage construction and in cases where no urban planning has been adopted, the reduction of the obligation of the applicant, communication by electronic means, the validity of the local authorisation. Making a solution to the establishment of a building particle, the property institutes of building land and the supervision of law enforcement. Here, that would be brief, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137131	Thank you. The State Secretary, Honored Daniel Mestrić, will continue, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137132	Dear MPs, honourable MPs, you have before you a draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. The adoption of this law will be simplified and accelerated, and the process of entering construction and use permits will be facilitated, thereby improving the effectiveness of the implementation of the Law on Construction, which will have an impact on strengthening competitiveness and better results in the position of the Republic of Croatia on the competition scale of Doing Business. This will, of course, increase the cost-effectiveness of investing in building buildings and increase the number of investments and employees in construction. The basic issues that we have settled in this bill, in the opening part itself, we have separated in fact the specific terms and conditions of accession. In fact, for reasons that these conditions of accession are not subject to confirmation by public authorities later in the procedure. Also, this law provides for the sorting of buildings in a slightly different way, so, according to demand, everything is actually related to the technical examination and the applicable permission, so we have the classification of the first group, that's the state importance, the second group, that's all of those buildings that are recognized by specific regulations and the third group, that's the ones that are not according to the specific regulations as such, and that's that in the second group we've broken down into 2a and 2b, where we've given in two, so where we've still given those buildings that go to... to the environment or assessment of the need for evaluation and evaluation of the ecological network, we have given some level and all related to information systems to publicly publish them within other deadlines. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, this law defines and allows a derogation now possible from the main 30-centimeter project, meaning 0.3m with no deviations in terms of the mandatory construction direction and no deviation from the minimum distance of the border and there is also no derogation for those buildings that are entered in the register of cultural goods, meaning anything that goes according to the law on, from the domain of the Ministry of Culture. What is the main newspaper, we introduce the main, or project documentation by means of an electronic form digitally signed. It is extremely important for communication between public legal authorities, so it will no longer be necessary to produce dozens of major projects and the investor will not have to go door to door to collect certificates or collect special conditions, it will now be resolved through electronic systems with one interoperability. The investor is also exempt from the obligation to collect specific conditions for this is attributed by law to the designer, of course it draws up a request which, where it describes those elements that are necessary for these specific conditions to be determined. The same thing as the newspaper, confirming the main project that has so far been under the Regulation on simple buildings, will go through the electronic system, so the investor will apply there, so it's not a building permit, but only through that electronic system will collect confirmations of the main project. Also prescribed are clear deadlines, establishing confirmations on the main project, so within 15 days, everything is purely electronic and that communication is also prescribed by this regulation. However, as regards the delivery of documents, an electronic ad panel is also defined where all documents, meaning all the permits signed by digitally to be delivered to public legal authorities, means after authorisation of units of local self-government, Croatian waters and other bodies that have been designated by law, means the State Geodetic Authority, etc. In the issue of a building permit, the opening was already and it was said easier to issue related to the urban planning of the arrangement. Essentially, this simplifies the authorisation process and also, in the case of a valid licence, it will no longer be necessary to confirm the abortions but only the projects from... The conditions and if this elaborate is adopted then, of course, it must be confirmed and it goes as such for implementation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the newspaper at... the projects were removed from the provision to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] projects prescribe, prescribe through the main than it is a matter of a contract between investors and performers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And briefly, as far as the emergency procedure is concerned, it is very important that this law enters into force within this time-limit, given that at 1.5, we have a deadline for applying for reforms on the scale to make business competitiveness, so it is important that this law has gone into an emergency procedure for all these deadlines to arrive. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137133	Thank you very much. We've got multiple replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137134	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. You also explained why the urgency, but regardless of how it went in the first two readings, what is crucial, even I don't think it's a problem, or that it won't be a problem for the public offices, or for those who issue the permits themselves, but rather for the public authorities against those permits. We know that so far there's been a lot of waiting, now it's gonna be right... where their conditions will be either within 15 days, observations or will be deemed to have been accepted as set out in the proposal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what if, and what if a narrow throat can be found there, which if we are talking about a water pipeline in particular, is neither responding nor respecting his duty, and that there is a later problem with the designer or investor himself, or whether we have solutions for them and what are the instructions to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137135	Thank you. The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137136	Thank you for asking, you've noticed all these deadlines. The silence of the administration means approval. So if a body has received a task from the office to determine the specific conditions and has not established them, then they are considered to be missing. Where a body has been submitted the main project for confirmation and no confirmation has been issued, it is considered that the main project has been designed in accordance with specific regulations. As for the conditions of accession, we still have these problems today. And today we have these problems that some offices go beyond schedule, and that can happen now, but the electronic system is still open, so when the public legal body subsequently delivers it through the electronic system and the specific conditions of the designer always with his identity card has the opportunity to view the whole case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137137	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137138	Thank you very much. The space is the most valuable thing, we should keep it safe, I'd ask you one question, did you foresee this law... predicting that base stations, antenna pillars are being set up as in other states that they must have a building permit, that they must, as in other countries? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've given this law as amendments to the law, to the proposal did not come to the agenda, it was on the board, I can't read here that the base stations, the Athens pillars will be required to have a building permit like they have. In Germany, Deute Telekom needs it, so this should be here. So I'd like you to answer this question for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137139	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137140	In that segment of this law nothing has changed. So the base stations are designed by a rule on simple buildings, buildings and works, of course, they have to go on a useful permit but now they have an obligation to use the electronic system to expensive confirmations of the main project. And a useful permit, to point that out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137141	The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137142	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, what would particularly point out from your opening statement, that is, the fact that the basis of this law requires more investors or a designer not to be visited by public-legal bodies in order to obtain their consent but through an e-conference, the competent civil servant will implement the procedure and if the public-legal authority does not issue consent to the procedure provided for, it will be considered that if he does not do so within 15 days, he will be considered to have been positively determined according to the project. Therefore, it is a very important moment in which the time needed to issue a building permit on the one hand and on the other hand to facilitate investors and designers of this procedure, and this is especially what I will say on behalf of the club later, for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137143	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137144	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Secretary of State. Since I'm there chattering then there's no replica on Secretary Magash but I have on you. It's about the e-authority. So e-authority is something that is basically a project that you know very much about and you have three e-authories in Croatia at the moment. One e-authority run by the state and another e-authority run by the city of Zagreb, the third e-authority run by the Primorje-Gorski County. We know why this came about, when the state decided to e-authorize the city of Zagreb had already had its own, the Primorje-Gorski County, the city of Rijeka and the county from which you came from, Varazdinska had her own and that adjustment goes hard. I am now interested in telling us how far the adjustment went, or that link as far as the city of Zagreb is concerned, so that at least the same information may be, that the same data can be drawn out and filled in the database or how far we have gone with the Primorje-Gorski County, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137145	Thank you. Dear Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137146	The e-authority project started in 2014, as with the beginning of 2015. As for today, we have established a system with the city of Zagreb if we are looking at an e-authority project, meaning it is not the same application that is also a state application where all other offices except the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County, however with the city of Zagreb we have established communication, so they provide us with every morning data according to the information system so that we can see their data, they are now targeted data-matched characters using our ciphers and all to be able to exchange data so that this part is finished. I'm saying, we didn't need to push them into the system if they made the same replica and have more or less the same thing we have. As for the Primorsko-Gorski County Thank you very much. [[Thank you, thank you very much.]] Oh, yeah, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137147	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tully Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137148	Thank you. Here's Mr. Secretary of State from the proposed draft laws, from your opening statement, we can conclude that the introduction of digitization speeds up the whole process. I don't think that's enough because, as has already been said, whether e-debates, e-authories, e-conferencing procedures remain the same. In this bill, no procedure has been reduced, and yet public-legal authorities will have to give special conditions to investors. So only the time of application is denied. So the process for us simply didn't take up new content that would really shorten the whole process of starting building acts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137149	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137150	Well, I'm sorry, Your Honor, MP, at the introduction I said that there was a change of procedure, and Parliamentarian Bacic explained it well. So the procedure has changed in the part where today's bottleneck is that investors had to go from office to office before, open doors, spend 30, 60, 90 days collecting various certificates, and the certificates are according to specific regulations means not according to this law but special regulations have been defined that they should be asked when issuing a building permit or location permit. We put the thing inside the building permit process, so the investor doesn't have to do it anymore, he just has to file a request for a building permit and the bodies, the state bodies have to coordinate with each other through this software e-conference, it's one software that we made for them to be quick and interoperable. So it's an important change of procedures for the investor, less work for the investor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137151	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate and the first one on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity Party's representative, the independent MP, will speak to the esteemed representative, Rechim Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137152	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I am sure that in this House there are far more qualified and professional parliamentary representatives and MPs who can talk about this subject, but something from practice and something from other people's experiences and even something from their own, I think we can generally say that this package of laws brings a certain simplification and speeds up the process and I would shrink to the next. We'll cut the racketeering for building permits. I spent a lot of time on a small building myself to get a solution to the construction permit or construction permit but now if it is an intention not only to speed up, not only to cut deadlines, which would actually be normal, if a particular body does not give its opinion or its demands or its solution, then over time it is considered to be in agreement with the request. However, when you talk about simplifying and speeding up the process, I will look only at the article. 51. Law amending and supplementing the Construction Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. In that article. In 51st, you are saying that the applicant or the owner of the building attaches to the request for an applicability permit. 1st photocopy of the building permit, i.e. a copy of the main project, and all these papers are already with the building permit issuer. So, in addition to digitization, besides everything else, you are again with this article change and supplementing the pile of paper. So with the publisher who issued the building permit, it's all there. And I'd like to warn from practice, not my own, about another problem. To the wheel. 2. you say data on the participants in the construction. I'm a lawyer, I read exactly what it says. Today the master's winning for a small facility, a high floor, is very difficult. And if I don't talk, regardless of the tax system now, if you tell him that he needs an account or that he needs to sign up for that building journal, says I'm busy, and you're gone, and you're going to lose the water installation, you're going to lose the electrical installation, and you're not going to get a building permit to use the permit, by any chance, these are objective situations. That, I think you should delete this information on the participants. It's important for us to have a building permit, and it's important to us that it's built within the Gabarite framework that it is, and it's important for us that the contractors, for example, have that construction part, and they have their own, it would be stupidity taken by someone who doesn't at least have the crafts to build it, because it gives us the certainty that according to the building permit, all the mechanical, statistical, etc., will make that object, but what's actually going to be done, is that little crafts work, forget it, forget it already today, and especially tomorrow, forget it, I think you don't need it. So this accumulation of paperwork and this information about the participants in the building because you're going to have it in the building log or what it is, what you have. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Arrangements with the Final Proposal for the Law, I must say today at the Committee on Legislatives was a question about the role of local self-government. I have to say that I didn't fully understand, you may show something in the final presentation, but it seems to me that the profession also warns you that there may be a risk of space due to lack of urban plans in the local environment. In the end, let me say that the club will normally adopt these two laws, along with amendments that we have already released in the procedure, that is an amendment relating to the adoption of laws relating to the EU directive towards a greener Europe without carbon, that I am not now explaining the entire amendment, because you and the Government will, too, be manifested. Amendment 2 which states that the urban project as an urban technical document of spatial planning is being developed to develop a specific area, rational use of space, but based on detailed urban architectural development of space. And the 3rd amendment, which says that the introduction of urban projects as a new urban technical document of spatial planning is necessary to amend the Article. The 94th Law for clarifying and implementing the procedure of a new document of spatial order. These amendments this club and I have personally worked in cooperation with the authorities of the city and the planning office, so I believe that you will carefully and with due care consider them when adopting an amendment position, so that we can then decide to vote on the laws themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137153	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bačić will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected State Secretarys with Associates, the HDZ Club will also support the adoption of, or the Law on Spatial Planning, Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Arrangements and Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act, as proposed in the acts themselves. It is good that the ministry or government has proposed amending these laws in order to shorten the procedures and speed up the adoption of local permits and to shorten the deadline for building permits. We believe that one of the most important characteristics of the work of the state administration is the parameter by which the performance, speed, urgency in the work of the state administration, the issue of works for construction, both location and construction permits are measured. And therefore, this perception of which Croatian citizens are difficult to implement quickly and come up with some sort of act from the state administration in large, is largely referred to as the issue of the issue of local or construction permits. Regardless of the fact that, often as a criminal state administration and the work of civil servants, it is burdensome or implies unresolved property-legal relations, so that citizens, at that time, who are required to obtain a building permit, are repeatedly observed and how much time it is necessary for a citizen to even arrive at the opportunity to submit a building permit, and these are unresolved property-legislative relations. These laws and their amendments make it clear that it does not go into this problem since it is dealt with by other laws and it speaks about the disorderly state of catasters and land books in Croatia, but I believe that it is necessary to observe and create such perception in the public as from the time when property and legal relations have been resolved, how long it takes to pass an individual act that has been defined and whose adoption procedure is defined by these laws. In this respect, further shortening of the procedures of 22, as far as is currently necessary in order to issue a building permit to 14 and 10 respectively, will certainly be important to shorten this period of time for the construction permit or building act on the one hand, and on the other hand, which will make it very important for citizens to both their designers and all investors and designers, to be simpler without visiting other state bodies and public legal bodies, etc., can be the result of a building act. In this sense, it is certainly necessary to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, but certainly also the Construction Act. What I would have singled out, and what I was saying on the board, is that when we implement these laws, if we talk first of all about the Law on Spatial Planning, we need to be careful not to violate the Republic of Croatia when adopting spatial-planned documents, either the spatial plan of the arrangement of the municipality or the city, that harmony and compliance with the plans of the higher order. Therefore, they should not be relevant except where this law is prescribed, but it would not be a good idea to carry out at the level of implementation through the county offices or through the administrative bodies of local self-government units in significant cases of non-compliance and in the implementation of two, two levels. So, both those at the county level through the county spatial planning so through the spatial planning of urban and municipal arrangements. There I very much need to be clear that the Government remains and we as Croatia, as a state, remain at this syntagm of harmonising the harmonisation of the plans of the higher and lower order and then issuing acts of any location, any building permits. It must be clearly based on this postulate of harmonisation of spatial planning documentation in the Republic of Croatia. This is very important to mention, and I have already said this, so if there were to be a change of spatial plans of a lower level, above all the spatial plans of urban planning and the municipalities, then it is necessary to change the county spatial plan clearly and with their consent and to change the county spatial planning plan at any time, regardless of the facilities of state, county or local importance, to be agreed. That way we can keep it there I said harmony between spatial plans higher and lower levels. Another thing, which I also warned, and which I think should also be isolated here, is the possibility of building in an area for which urban planning is envisaged. Already the current law, the current law prescribes certain exceptions, now we take exceptions to moving on, so it is possible where roads exist and a resolved wastewater disposal system according to local opportunities or opportunities in a given settlement. I and I hold here that it is necessary to be very careful, which means enabling construction without a plan, without a detailed plan, which is certainly a urban planning. Therefore, this should be highlighted and speeded up the realization of investments in this area but I will say something that I am as Minister in 2011 when we realized that the spatial plans in Croatia are burdened, overloaded by the need to make huge, it seems to me that there have been over 2,500 urban plans in the Republic of Croatia and that this fact is such a large, large number of UPUs are really often an obstacle to the realisation of certain investments and construction in the Republic of Croatia, so we have set a deadline for us to go into space analysis and define for which areas we really do not need to do UPU, but where it remains for the construction of a large number of urban planning plans. Now, it would not be good if under this pressure the need to create a very large number of UPUs fell into a trap, and then to speed up investments in Croatia, we could bypass the production of UPU and access one such, one such one, we could determine an approach that would then practically enable the adoption of urban planning. So, it seems to me that these two, and the two settings on them need the government, the ministry insists on insisting it is therefore at the coherence of the plans of the higher and lower order as a sacred rule, I would say in a spatial arrangement, and another thing to allow really where the law provides for construction without making the UPU, but that, not to happen that the exception practically becomes a rule and that at the end of the exception, there should be urban planning, it is very important and there should be, there should be sensitivity. When I talk about the Construction Act, about amendments and additions to the Construction Act, then I want to say that I am 2013. When we divided the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction on the one hand into the Law on Spatial Planning, on the other hand, the Law on Construction, and when we introduced building categorization, I had certain objections and disagreements with such a classification of buildings. So now I support this particular change because I believe that this will make it easier to define and act in the design of projects on the one hand, and on the other hand clearly on the outcome of building acts. I also agree with the permitted construction deviations in order to make two measures a condition, which is to keep the construction line and distance from the neighbours, so that there should be no deviations, it seems to me that the two data on which it should always be kept when determining the applicable permit or when it comes to supervision are kept in particular accounts. What I said earlier in the replica, I will now single out, so it is particularly important that the provisions under which the state authorities are now, were the unique administrative departments of the county or large cities, in their own actions, they are the ones that will obtain certain consent from the public authorities to disburse both the investor and the designer and to prescribe a final deadline in this country that when the official does not issue the document within the prescribed time limit or the public body, he is then considered to have resolved the positive. In fact, no one has pushed individual public authorities to get involved, if they can say so, in the Construction Act and in a certain way ask to be asked about and their consent should be obtained, so when it is already in the law, let those officials who react in those public legal bodies within a perfectly appropriate time limit provided by this law for 15 days that after that can be realised all together. In conclusion, I would like to say, therefore, that it is good that both these laws and amendments to these laws are regulated by a very important activity in the Republic of Croatia. It may be possible to withdraw the syntagma when construction works or when construction works well, then it is with the best sign that living standards are growing, that GDP is growing, that building relying on itself and a number of other activities, that, namely, construction, whether we are talking about high or low construction, the driver of development and other activities. In that sense, we are going towards increasing and improving the state of construction best says the fact that it seems to me in 2017. the date of entry into force of this Agreement; issued somewhere around 6700 building permits, and last year about 9500 which is a very large growth, which means that the volume of construction works in the Republic of Croatia is increasing at an annual level somewhere around 2.7 to 2.3% of the total volume of construction works is increasing in the Republic of Croatia, and this proves, I say, a large number of issued, more issued building permits. This makes it clear that there is then an increase in the number of construction workers. I think it's the beginning of the 2008 crisis. There were about 135 to 140 000 workers in construction, that they then fell through the crisis to 91 000, even below, that now the number of construction workers is growing significantly again as they grow, I say, and this volume, and clearly how GDP is growing and how new investments are opening up, etc., etc. So it is good that the Government then with these laws that significantly define the conduct of the sector, shorten, simplify procedures and thus allow for the further realization of all these construction works in the Republic of Croatia. What I would certainly say, in order to improve investments in the Republic of Croatia, it is not only necessary to react with these amendments to these two laws, certainly that the adoption of spatial plans, the coverage of the Republic of Croatia with spatial plans, both higher and lower lines, and then with urban planning, is not sufficient to assume that investment in the Republic will be greatly accelerated, it must pay for two more basic ones, I would say, activities or two other basic preconditions. On the one hand, I said this earlier in the introduction, and that is that we must finally approach the realization and development of a new cadastre, a new land book that will enable the resolution of property relations that will then significantly speed up investment and will be a premise of faster adoption or excerptation of both location permits, so first of all building acts, that is one thing, and the other thing, a stable tax system, these 3 basic elements that contribute to faster investment in the Republic. I think that with the 3 rounds of tax reform, we went in a certain way in, and the faura, if I may say so, we went towards improving this framework and the atmosphere for investing in the Republic of Croatia. These laws certainly reduce the necessary time until the construction acts are taken, I say, we still have an obligation to approach one systematic geodetic measurement of the property cataster in order to settle the two most important investments, the two most important real estate records, that is a cadastre and a land book, and thus we can say that we have really become a country that is friendly towards investment. On this trail, so, and what I said, our club will support one and the other amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137155	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists on behalf of whom the respected representative Miro Bulj will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137156	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with associates, here I come from the Construction Act. Of the 22 procedures you recognize from the whole, so only 2 are expelled as regards the Construction Act and it is a geodetic project and payment of the municipal water contribution. 8 procedures remain in the process, but are transferred from investors to the body of construction and projectors and are linked to the outcome of specific conditions and conditions of connection of the facility most frequently represented in the process of serious investment, and confirmation of the main project of public authorities. Some minor changes in the building sorting system where these changes and additions are classified according to procedures that must pass in the process of obtaining a building permit and use. In this context, most buildings will continue to be able to find simpler procedures for obtaining a building permit. I would have mentioned here what I was saying to this law, so, Art. The 128th changes, but I expected it to change that both Athens pillars and base stations, as in other countries, need a building permit, not to be installed. 128. Construction law. However, this is my proposal and I have made, and I will also give an amendment to whether the base stations are being set up as in any country, in no EU country there are no base stations, Athens pillars where one can think of. For cultural goods, for bell towers, for hospitals, for kindergartens, without the consent of neighbors. I had a problem in Sinj, in Radosic where after 4 years. protesting, setting up, arresting the police, that it was seen that the base station wasn't set up on a house that had a useful license, only now, and it put a man 5m from the bedroom where the children were sleeping, on an abandoned building. I expected it to be minimally that the tribune be the same conditions as in Germany, what in Sweden and in other countries where these teleopers come from. I'll give the amendment, I've given the law of change in procedure, there was a committee, but it still suits teleoperators who have huge profits and don't care where they put it, it's important for them to find where they're going to set it up, and to camuflate it so it can't be seen, and even I said, the church bell towers were set as an example of what's in Zadar, and in hospitals, I said, in kindergartens and other schools and other institutions, without any consent. Imagine you're staying by your bedroom base station 5m where your children sleep. This is possible in the Republic of Croatia, not even respecting the spatial plans of units of local self-government where they have limitations, and no one is doing anything, but people have to protest, it's well settled in Istria County, as far as the questions of the base stations are concerned, they're by the spatial plan, I don't know what's inside of it, if there are illegal base stations, they've dealt with it well. However, over the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and this applicable authorisation, it is being violated. For cultural goods, so you'll see when you're on your way to Kliss, so you'll see on the fortress how much that base station is, I mean amazing, and the hill is not far away. However, the problem is that teleopers have the highest profit, 42% have profits or margins, and in the EU they have 20% on average Deutsche Telecom. For what? That's why they should be looking for a building permit, the tribals would make projects, pay, the tribals would invest in the infrastructure, if they needed electricity, they needed a way, but they find some object that has close to the currents, they join and that's what they call the guards, the police, and they're protecting them, and health is threatened, they're rewarding the space, is the space all of cultural goods, I said, they hurt everything. I think this law should have dealt with this article. 128. And I'm going to give the amendment on these base stations and not just that we're doing repression and pressure on teleopers, but that's a minimum, a minimum that they have to have in their own countries. I asked the question here and Prime Minister Plenkovic, I never received an actual answer from the minister... Transport Minister Oleg Butkovic, however, did not respond. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, as far as it's concerned here, the role of the geodetics in the process of obtaining a building permit is moved. But it's inconclusive. We have another law on paper that's inconclusive. Namely, the cards are from Austro-Hungarian, they're completely aligned, and the difference between, so they're completely out of sync, and the difference between the real state and the border or in my Zagora they say the bounds, as they're drawn in maps from Austria-Hungarian and the real state is a minimum of 5 m, so they're setting boundaries with a stone, a bunch of some kind of stone, and there's no such thing now. Well, you'll simply, with this procedure, happen that the neighbors don't know where their border is, and that's probably happening, mostly in my Zagora, but it's also because, if it wasn't for Austria-Hungarian, we wouldn't have as many cards as we are, mainly what's in the earth and here in the catastrophe, that these differences are huge and without geodetic backgrounds are going to be the chaos of whether the real state and the real state and the cards that are drawn simply won't be able to determine and it's going to be one big chaos, as I said, the boundaries were then being determined or the bounds were determined by the dry walls, rocks or some other things, and it's not of course now with real condition. I know what it's like with me in Zagora, I repeat, and it's probably in the larger area of the Republic of Croatia that it's arranged, so it can happen that the neighbor is working on someone else's house and they're going to introduce themselves with this law just one bigger problem, and that's a court dispute, we're going to have a litigation. If those books were harmonised, land and garland, then it would be okay, and like this, I don't know, simple Austro-Hungarian land books aren't simple, it's not done. And now we're coming up with a huge problem. Also, if the law prescribes the abolition of the income geodetic base, during application and construction, it will have to be done by excavating, for which is the necessary correct geodetic basis and I don't know how you imagined doing it? So you're not going to cut costs by this law, you're just going to bring confusion to the people and complicated obtaining a building permit. Reduce the pressure on the building permit, it would be much better if it remained this part that would complicate because I simply repeat the real situation in the land garter and with a real state in reality is a huge difference. I'm testifying because I live simply, it's not solved I've said since Austro-Hungarian. Gentlemen, if you would like to order a pro-European review of your counselling profession. Turn the public on and don't look back at the comments of the profession, because you're hiding it. No reform, no cheaping, will come out of this law. Of these reforms of yours, people are the only ones who lose their way around the halls and lose money and time, and there's no sign of investment. We simply pass a law that is inconclusive, the amendments to the law, in addition to two important things, of 22 changes is inconclusive. I know it's an interest in this law to increase investment, speed up procedures, deficits, but it's invaluable. Unreal because of the inconsistencies of land... Throw out the geodetics from this when they're not in sync with land and garland with real condition. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, people here, who are from my neighborhoods down here, 90% of these lands aren't solved. It's in some, but I'm talking about most of it isn't resolute. And you have passed the law, with the intention of making it easier, but you will not, but you will make it complicated, you will lead to litigation. Because the real state of the field isn't, like in land books. In fact, there will be court disputes, extra costs. A halt in investment, if books were arranged, land, garters, if that were all, then this law would make sense, and this way we'll just make chaos, chaos to investors, chaos to those who want, owners, those lands in that space. I'll speak individually, because there's too much of it, and when I'm preparing and talking to professional people, there's a lot of shortcomings, I repeat again, this law is inconclusive, I don't know why you're rushing with this law because there's no reform here, and I'm going to explain why, because public, legal bodies, you're actually going to make such a mess here that you're going to pass a law where someone's going to have to, he's going to have to go into disputes, i.e. If the geodetic bases aren't, he'll have to, how will he solve it, how will he solve it? Who knows now after three, four generations, exactly where's his limit or his limit? So they're not real, I've been talking to you too much time, professionally, because I come from these parts, I think you're complicated with this, the law is inconclusive, your intention by this law is to save you to reduce the procedure, it's but you're simply, the state of reality is invulnerable, uninjurable. The books are native to the Austro-Hungarian people, they're not credentials, and you're throwing them out, you reduce them if you want citizens to be, building permits, to be cheaper 70%, but you can't complicate court disputes, trust me that there will be litigation, and this law will pass, that there will be litigation, which are much longer, where there will be, much, much more problems, much more. Here, I would finally do it again, what hurts me the most, it's the usurpation of our space's teleoperators. That's what I've talked about countless times, I've given the law in procedure, change of Article 128 where simple buildings, we have to, as in other countries, simply can't be those base stations. Base stations must be like Austria, like in other countries, to have building permits and Athens pillars. They simply need to invest in infrastructure, in line with spatial plans. They don't do it, now they're breaking the law, like... My son from Zadar from... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] from Zapresic, here from Zagorje, I was in hundreds of places, people call me, hundreds of places to have base stations enough overnight, literally, in my Sinj, there's a huge chimney in the middle of town, a former bakery, during the night a base station on a huge... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's where the people live... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They hide in the night setting up base stations, let alone to seek consent, it is the same for you, that I have the end of your house, where you live, or stop or house, that I have some old building or some kind of land and electricity and that I rent it to someone for 100, 500 euros a month, and I rent it to you next to the room at the base station. It is in Croatia by teleoperators who come from the EU. But they can't do it in their own countries, you know. Because they treat us not evenly, as we should, if we were in the EU, apparently, we went on our knees, because we've tribalded to sign everything as they are... They said we should have arrested all the generals, we should have, we shouldn't have protected the sea. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And of course, if we'd let them do this to the Germans or anyone else. We're not asking for anything more than for teleopers and others to behave like in countries where they come from in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137157	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA in the name of which the respected representative Ivan Pernar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137158	Dear ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to address more problems that plague builders, and the main problem is the lack of harmony between land books and catastras. So we're in a situation where there are two parallel land management systems that don't match. And that's what's causing a lot of litigation. The construction law will not solve what they advertise, and the point is to reduce red tape, the amount of paper spent on the press and the office information system of spatial planning. We have so many regulations that are related to legal construction. And when you have that forest regulations regarding legal construction, then what's the point of legalizing illegal construction, illegal construction. The best way for the state to prevent illegal construction by facilitating legal, however, as you know, imposes are enormous, the process of obtaining permits, is expensive, it is very much a lot of paperwork needed. Watch this thought, the profession is not involved in the making of regulations and investors, so we should have brought in representatives of investors of people who deal with construction and tell people, let's say what the problem is to you, but the state didn't do it. We have poor and unequal interpretations, frequent amendments to the law, officials are not educated for this work, no responsibility and order, no fiscal problems, land and property are solved. We still have two unnecessary concepts, land use, cadastre and property garland. These two are not in sync, and for years, money has been thrown into failed measurements and no measurements. They're just changing structures inside the state geodetic administration, and there's no step forward. The possibility of printing out the ZK extract via the Internet is no success, various local sheriffs, political powers, their sales contracts, can keep home in drawers and not record property in land books. Taxes don't pay. Why not pass a law within which all ownership will have to be recorded and all harmonisations carried out? Why do they not make state changes, i.e. Reambulation? Why hasn't the return of property seized in the former state been resolved yet? Of course, it is waiting for the real owners and their heirs to swallow the darkness, that is, that they die. Let the stromer first solve the alignment of the grantine and catastra, which is a primary and alarming problem, which they started with a big, famous announcement, so they stopped at 5% because they were unable. That's it. the order in space is not in the interest of the ruling, because it is easier to fool them with purchase contracts, for which no one knows and which are not recorded in municipal courts. The state and the people without land don't exist. Why the past amendments introduced the expropriation and provisional act of a temporary use permit, which allows it to build, without worry, whether the extradition procedure will ever be completed. That's how the courts get caught. so Croatia rolls across the hills of balls and so on, and so on. It's just that all the problems that exist aren't these, these changes solved, but they're not the key either. And one of the key problems I would certainly say, is the municipal contribution, which is still paid per metre of cubic, i.e. per metre square. A communal contribution is an imposition that is harmful, and why? Because if you enter old buildings and old buildings in Zagreb, you will see that the ceilings are high and that the new buildings are low. The reason why in the new construction, the small height of the ceiling, in the apartments is amongst others a municipal contribution, because investors save at the height of the space. That way, we as a new generation, in some social sense, actually fall down, we descend, so our ancestors lived in more comfortable apartments than we do today. Why people, gentlemen of Parliament, think of yourselves, of your apartments, of your houses. Who wouldn't want to live in an apartment, or in a house, where every floor is higher, where there's more space? I believe each of you would like to live in an apartment that has a high ceiling. However, the municipal contribution is an imposition that prevents it, such as the construction of large warehouses, which are not worth producing in Croatia. Without amending these provisions, relating to municipal contributions, that it is paid by square, not per metre of cubic, without harmonisation, garland and catastra, we are not going to get far in a situation where property on paper does not necessarily have to mark property, where there are countless regulations unnecessary, or people's lives are complicated until the important things are resolved we can't advance as a society. The Croatian state does not encourage the development and growth of our country, does not encourage construction, the whole phenomenon of illegal construction in Dalmatia is not the guilt of lawless builders but of a state that does not want to enable legal construction and regulate it. The state can allow simple regulations to urbanise or build shores. Of course, it is necessary to protect the coastal belt or that there is access to the sea, that it is not limited, that someone cannot say so, the occupied part of the sea or part of the coast for themselves, but the construction of a type of 12 m from the coast should not be controversial. We have a huge and divorced coast, we can literally, every citizen of Croatia can have a villa at sea without a problem if the law allows construction, if the state issues favourable loans, all these people can make money, however, because no building permits are given, because you have a bunch of regulations that make it difficult to build, which is why there is illegal construction, illegal construction. And in illegal construction, it's getting harder, it's getting harder, it's getting harder, it's getting harder. And the state doesn't solve it, the state just bureaucratizes and actually makes people dependent on the system that's working on their heads. But even when you make real estate, we have another problem. Let's start from the assumption that people have to pay by, say, by force to connect electricity to their facility, and why, HEP says simply, they say it's the cost of building, infrastructure, is it? Okay, if we're going to finance from our pockets the construction of HEP's infrastructure, then why doesn't the state give shares or shares of HEP to these people if they're invested in building infrastructure? No, but the system works in a way that everyone who builds, invests in HEP infrastructure means all the cost is on us and the property remains HEP and HEP behaves as a stepmom to all of us because despite last year having over 2 billion kuna, he added to the price of electricity. They're making fools of us. The price on the international gas market has fallen. But with us, the price of gas has been rising since this month. The same thing about water, the country is the second richest water in Europe, we have to. The state collects water. How? Where, where does that lead, my people? And then people have high directors, we have high taxes, VAT 25%, the municipal contribution is calculated by cubicity even though it's air, so I can understand the pool where it's used, which is filled with water, so look, maybe we're not so rich in water, so people don't know what kind of pools, they're going to charge themselves by cubicity, but they can't understand that the use of air charge by cubicity, it's incomprehensible to me. Such a system as exists in Croatia is against our citizens, the Living Wall wants to change it, the Living Wall wants to harmonize grantovnica and cadastre which has not been made for 30 years. The living wall wants the municipal contribution to be calculated per metre square and not a cubic meter, that the cost of building the infrastructure, whether waterway, was electric not on the investor but on HEP or municipal enterprises. If HEP wants investors to pay HEP's infrastructure, let them share in the capital that this infrastructure is worth. It is known exactly how much HEP's assets are worth, it is known how much the infrastructure that investors had to pay, give them, capitalize, give them that adequate substitute for the assets, and then they can trade with those shares on the stock market, but what happens is that for the right of the state or state enterprise, they take the property that was created by private money to themselves and at that even at the price of the city's robbery. The EU is making a fool of us, and I will explain to you how and why. The EU has allowed North Stream II. And North Stream II basically means cheaper gas for Germany. However, the same EU did not allow a South Stream that would go through the Black Sea to Bulgaria from Russia. Do you see what paradox that is? So when it comes to cheap gas for Germany, then it can, then Angela Merkel's going to go for it, then Angela Merkel slaps her hands on the table and says North Stream II must but then the same Angela Merkel says no, no, but South Stream, the southern gas stream that would give us cheaper gas in Croatia, if it can't. So for the German industry cheaper gas can, for Croatia cheaper gas can't. Oh, yeah? North Stream II yes, South Stream no. And then we fools participate in that farce and vote ourselves against what's going on for us like we're punishing Russia, so what, so we're going to pay for Russian gas anyway because only 5% of the gas Europe imports comes from America. Russia sells and LNG gas in Europe and what is worst means instead of Croatia supporting the construction of Southern gas that would allow cheaper gas, Croatia is going to build what, LNG terminals on the Omislje which will lead to, which also serves to import LNG gas that is more expensive than pipeline. And what happens, there are no interested, then the state suggests state-owned enterprises to buy that expensive LNG gas but the system doesn't work at full capacity either. Not then. It will operate at 15% of the terminal's capacity and the price of its maintenance and the price of the expensive gas will be simply enormous, the state enters a project that is catastrophic. LNG on Krk is a disaster and will be collected by the price of gas for all citizens because that gas is more expensive, someone has to pay the cost of maintaining that terminal and that is us citizens. So this state, both in terms of law or in terms of justice, means land books, or what I said, catastra and grantines, and in terms of utility prices, and in terms of calculating municipal contributions, simply the state in all spheres makes crazy decisions. Let people build, I don't mind building regulated, say look, there, there, there, there and there can be built etc. But don't limit the building, let the people build. Just make sure it's built in accordance with certain standards. But we don't want to bring building plans or these spatial plans, we don't want to allow coastal development, we don't want people to have high ceilings in their apartments, we want them to live with a low ceiling, it's all directed against people. Well, the state exists because of people, regulations exist for people, everything exists for people, and these laws unfortunately only become because of those who wrote them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137159	The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU and will speak to the respected representative of Anka Mrak Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137160	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Secretary of State. Magash, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr. Mestrić. Here we have a united discussion of two laws, one law in the area of spatial order and the other law in the area of construction, a united debate and an emergency procedure. I know that these are laws that don't give a lot of attention in the Croatian Parliament, if they were some kind of world view, it would certainly be a much stronger debate, these are so-called. technical laws but I appreciate them and evaluate them extremely important for a simple reason there is no family in Croatia that is not sooner or later or will meet with some kind of investment, construction, the desire to either improve its apartment or invest in business. There about 15 years ago, I received from a colleague who lives in Australia, who is an architect there, a book called "City of the Future". And in that book, it's actually said what cities will have to plan in the future and what buildings will have to do and it's supposed to be in the future that people will live in their apartments and that they won't need to get out of their apartment or out of their building at all because they'll be able to do business through computers, all those needs, I don't know, home supplies through computers, in their building they'll have great fitness, wellness that they'll be able to satisfy, and everything will be that way through a screen where they'll be better than if they're in a theater or in a play, and education will also be able to work out of their apartment or building. It's a very interesting book, and when I read it, I thought great, and that's not what I'm going to experience. But when you look around you a little bit, you can see that it is not like that and all the efforts that the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning makes in the sense that the data are more accessible, that the data can be accepted, that citizens can come to this data, that all these procedures are being accelerated and we also know that in 2014 and 2013, as well as two laws, one law was about spatial arrangement, the other law was on construction that created assumptions for the functioning of the information system of spatial arrangement, and equally assumptions for the e-authority which in principle all together began to work gently and shyly in 2015, and now in mid- 2019, there are these two amendments to the law with the desire that everything that was missing in the laws should have been done, and that something had to be done, but often the road to hell was set up with good intentions. And now comes the big but comma and I really have this special situation, when I was a resolute minister, then there was one parliamentary representative who was then an opposition, and I would say that if I had come here with an amendment to the law in which we were changing c to c or vice versa, that was a colleague who was against it, I would say that we didn't do it well. I, when it comes to the laws that come from the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, always try to find arguments, do in principle colleagues who have worked with me and can't, no matter what side I'm from, speak differently, and I can't be there, so hypocrisy is something I'm having a hard time putting up with in my life, but we at club GLAS and HSU-- we're not going to support these two amendments to the law and I'm going to be very reasonable and very reasoned to say why it is. What is absolutely unacceptable to me are certain changes that are in the Law on Spatial Planning, about the Law on Construction are some other things problem and I have an individual debate so what I fail to possibly say in this debate I will say in an individual debate. What this law has done, as amended in Article 4, I am talking about a law on spatial regulation that says to preserve existing resources, revitalization, reuse, effective resource management, it is absolutely something that is acceptable but let's see what in the law is not good and what will introduce, imagine the dam and colleagues and colleagues are building engineers, when you put on the defense for the first time a small hole and don't resuscitate, then that hole will become bigger and bigger and the dam will go to hell and the space will flood or it will happen already. In law, it seems to be small things, but it's not small things because you're destroying a system of spatial planning with two big things. One thing, is that for the first time in the spatial planning system in the Republic of Croatia, you say when two plans are not mutually agreed, regardless of the hierarchy, you will apply the plan, or you will apply the uncoordinated plan, and you will not go in line. What will happen to you is what your coalition partner, Bandic Milan 365, has announced to you as an amendment. It introduces an urban project and wants to introduce an urban project. No public debate, no plan, in a way that can build a skyscraper in Zagreb. He has announced this to you in the amendment, and he will insist on it. We, the world doesn't start with us or end with us. He was before us. He'll be right behind us. In 94, in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, the introduction of local permits and something else took place. Why? Because we used to have everything under control, and when you were planning on it, it was just good to have a nice plan. Whose land was underneath, it didn't matter. Since 94, it's been important. A local permit was introduced as an administrative act to protect the investor and by the year 98 we had a hierarchy so that spatial plans of different contents, spatial plans without public debate, spatial plans for which they were not known who would bring them, and then man, it was much simpler for him to bring a spatial plan for his plot than to go to a local permit and a local permit is an administrative procedure so they ask the neighbors, so there's something going on. In this way we're actually going back to that system of spatial order we're going to bring it down irrevocably and it's going to be a responsibility to you. Don't do this. So don't crash that system because it's just not good. The second topic Mr. Bacic warned about was the fact that he and I warned about building inspection. What didn't work out for me is clear, but why Mr. Bacic, I wish he had his hand. Urban planning. He says licenses will be issued again. My people, there's no more protection space for any public content, for the roads. When building permits, local building permits are brought to you in the space of an urban planning plan, so who's ever going to run the road again, so who's ever going to make any more public content? Don't do that, we had that, so we gave up on this law that's been in force since 2014. You're making a mess. Equally, the participation of citizens. There's a colleague of mine talking about a firehouse in Konjski, so it's enough for you to go to any municipality or city now and say, there's going to be a nuclear power plant. Regardless, it may also be guilty of information, that moment in a week you'll have citizens out there, they'll fight the nuclear power plant, when you ask someone if there's anyone out there who knows whether or not it is. Why is that? When you come to the building permit, therefore, our citizens and all of you react together, and when you start digging a hole, when you come to the hole and get on the building permit, it's all too late. Because before that was some spatial plan that was in the public debate, there was some environmental impact study that was in the public debate, there was a local permit that was equally notified to citizens, and when you get on the building permit, everyone does this and they say we're sorry. You had everything. And now you're doing the next thing. It was in the law that 8 days before the public hearing was announced, citizens were informed that a public debate had been published. You wipe it out because it bothers someone and the explanation is the secretary of state... She told me so someone could notify someone a month earlier, so it doesn't matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It all has to do with you. So it's all based on spatial planning. You can make a bad house in life and you'll knock it down and you'll make another house or you'll redesign it. If you make the wrong decision on a spatial basis, it's a lasting consequence of space. Thus, when it comes to spatial plans, this becomes the reason why these deadlines are. There is then the next thing you've done, why was it a decision to make a spatial plan, if it's considered invalid within two years? So for reasons, we had one city, which had 8 decisions to make and amend the same spatial plan, which was made at different times in different compositions of the city council and no one else, when that spatial plan, otherwise it was about the PDO, the protected coastal belt, when that spatial plan came into agreement, no one knew what the decision was. And that was the reason. There's a decision that bothers you, and that decision will, that decision you've now decided to throw out. We, as a club of Glass and HSU, will only give two amendments for the simple reason we know we won't accept them, so yes, because that's how it works. Those two amendments will apply to two things. One thing is the consistency of spatial plans, so that's this provision. In 123, which you decided to change or change for the reason that you're really opening a hole in the dam, the dam will go away and we'll have nothing to defend. And the second decision, the second one's very interesting. When the mayors and mayors sit there, although rarely, but there are, when the mayor of a city decides to go into the building, change and supplement the plan or go, decide to work on a new plan, that decision is made by the city council. So, the city council makes a decision on the draft plan, the city council makes a plan. When the state decided to do a state spatial plan and everything related to the state spatial plan we did when we were doing the law, then we were very concerned about who was going to make the decision, only not to go twice to the Parliament and then it was said that the government had made a decision, so a parallel with the Programme and the Strategy to not strangle you too much, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia was making a decision, and the State Spatial Plan was made by the Parliament. Now, with this amendment and the addition of the plan decision will be made by the minister, and I wouldn't mind if you had decided that the decision then on all other spatial plans, on the mayor's mayor, on the city mayor, on the municipal chief, and this is contrary to all the ideas, all the stories, if you had decided to make the plan to the Parliament, it would have been incomparably more acceptable to me than you transferred this to that. Then why can't the mayor make a decision about making a plan? Why? I think if I were mayor, I'd be... Or if I were the chief, you'd be asking yourself that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the Minister takes the decision to draw up the State Plan, why can't the Chief make a decision on the urban plan or the municipal plan of his municipality, or the urban plan? So much for spatial planning, I'm just going to do a few e-authorization sentences. The e-authorization is a good project, e-authorization is a project that needs to be developed and which is growing further, on the Committee, and here in the explanation is the State Secretary Mr. Meštric said we have to do business by the end of the month. We are on a scale doing business, Croatia, grew up the moment the Construction Act was passed that defined the e-authorization, and we can grow again when we do some other procedures, but these procedures need, we need to respect, and we need to develop, we need to know how ready we are for it all together, Croatia is not the City of Zagreb. When we started with an e-registration, so for the e-authority at the time there was a prepared Varazdin County, the Međimurska County was ready and everyone else refused the e-authority. You struggled, you visited Croatia with me, and it was a terrible burden for everyone. At this point we have three e-authories, one has the City of Zagreb, one has the Primorje-Gorski County, one has the state, but I'm not about to force them to change them, but we have to force them to put in the data. And what I'm going to, I'm going to really use the individual debate I have a lot to say, '86 is the first time in our legislation are the special conditions introduced, I don't know by which time in the law we're collecting a little bit ourselves, a little more expensive office, a little more expensive designer, a little more expensive investor, I have you all the time feeling that the Resort Ministry is as if there's a big train, where the Resolute Ministry is trying to get out of the first and second wagons all the extra, but until it looks at those last cars someone throws all the time the next material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137161	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Vedran Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137162	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have two laws before us regarding spatial planning and construction, our debate is united, I welcome that initiative from the Committee, and I voted to discuss it that way, and then colleagues are very often referred to each other in debates with each other, so here's what I see as something good. At the Committee's session, I asked why, why, by emergency procedure, the reason was that because of doing the World Bank's competitiveness business scale was good, we have to bring it in by 01.05, and I personally think that if it was the only motive to do the Law so quickly, that we're not on the right track. I welcome all these positive intentions written in the proposal, but I'm putting in a big questionnaire. When we talk about the very process of entering the building permit or the solution itself, the perception of the public is that it only happens when you submit, when the party submits a request to the competent office and when a permit is granted, I fear that you have done the same thing to write this Law. So by ignoring those, in a way not ignoring but by putting on the back of the designers which can be good, but doesn't have to, to result in special building conditions, you simply put them beyond these frames or calculating the time it takes to get the license going. Also, if we don't have a formulation of an idea project, an idea solution, to a dear god anyway, I'm just wondering how a competent body will issue special building conditions, let's say in a protected core, if the conservator doesn't know what that object looks like. For example, it means simple procedures exist, whether we put them only within the competent authority, but without the specific conditions of construction, without all the preparatory actions needed to result in specific conditions, this process will not be faster. Here's my colleague Lončar said perfectly in the Committee's session, that the only way when you can quickly get a permit is when we have a detailed plan of arrangements, in other situations there is no, in other situations the competent authorities have to issue special building conditions, and if we don't go in that direction to units of local self-government that the faster and more quality way of bringing detailed arrangements, we will never solve this problem, we will always, will have to issue special building conditions, I am in favour of issuing special building conditions, even a little bit afraid of those, when we have, now, introduce... 15 days if you don't get special conditions, push on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What happens if the designer decides wrong? It's human to sin. What happens if that distributor shows up later and realizes the paperwork is wrong? It is also necessary to consider these things, to insist that they issue special conditions, because without special building conditions, there is no good design. Also the suspension, formally, I'd even say, let's say it's not an abolition but... an implementation project or parts of a project documentation, not an essential, not a project, not a project documentation to issue a permit, that it is a priority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The documentation project is designed to create an object as high and safe as possible and according to all the criteria necessary. Giving access to an investor so he can skip something, he automatically, if something isn't legal, thinks it's not essential, it's necessary. Banal thing, formal plan... is an implementation project. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In no major project do you have a foundation armature, e.g. Why would a craftsman have to be able to read from a major project to be put in place? That's, I'd say questions from practice, which you as a legislator have to think about and have to prescribe. Here, as far as I understand it is not prescribed, I allow me to make a mistake, but by creating a picture, the process is going on, and in essence it doesn't last any longer, if we're going to jump in any more. If that was the motive, to figure it out, then let's be honest with ourselves and say, here's what we do for them, but this is going to work out one way or another. I also see, the general public is not so interested in these discussions, but... He definitely would have commended me if he had, he did a lot of these presentations in front of his colleagues, but making a presentation and not taking suggestions again is not good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There were thousands of written remarks on both laws, only 15 percent was accepted, perhaps even less I believe that, even here, you colleagues... I believe and later will refer to everything that you've been referring to, that you've made great failures, in the first sense, what you've done with this bill, I've brought down the system of spatial planning, in a way that means, when I've adopted here, now as I've realized, and I'm not laik, that's my profession, so when someone brings a new plan, it doesn't have to respect the old one, I mean, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, some community, it can bring a simple spatial plan that doesn't fit the county plan, according to that logic or his new one, it's now, according to the new and do whatever it will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, deny it, if you think I'm talking nonsense. And I also ignore those things, and here's what many colleagues have warned about, and that's the alignment of catastrophe and grantonics, and I think that here and by reading all these comments, my colleagues from the Chamber of Geodetics have, let's say, made a geodetic project and realized that it's something that's good and that we still have to work to make it better, and now we're canceling it with this proposal. Also remember now means, here's when I just caught up with the geodetic project, when the last amendment to the law, when this geodetic project came into effect, two or three months passed until it was known what this geodetic project would look like. Will it affect the Duing Business Board? I hope not, but in practice, it definitely will. In the crowd of these remarks, you said some things would be solved by a rule. I remind you that every time after the law is passed, we wait for the adoption of these regulations and simply, our fellow citizens and fellow citizens who work on issuing permits, they simply are not ready to write their licenses, i.e., permits, because they are simply unprepared, because they lack, instructions, information, and now I wonder, I would like the same thing you would like to answer me, are they already trained and are the training of the employees in which they will write, who will issue these building permits? Just creating a bad climate about the adoption of this law of profession wrongly I would even say, one, two or three places on the Duing business scale is less evil than when the profession warns you and does not accept these proposals, which as a legislator you are giving, would be better by my, ironing things, some said, you could go earlier, I understand, it was not a simple procedure, but such a legal proposal, definitely, takes a lot, takes two readings, maybe even three. I have now listed, quite a lot of failures, which will in practice lead to the same, but simply not accepting, the Chamber, the architectural, construction engineers, whose this, whose fundamental laws, to you as a legislator, you, as a legislator of this law, should really be, something to imagine and make the law, that is as clear as possible, that we simply don't go into space, that the official, decides how and what, in particular, I mean urban planning arrangements, that what decides, what is... What isn't, whether to ignore it or not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not every man is the same, but there are those who are Zieheras, so they will never decide, and yet you have a legal basis, and there are those who will do all things. So we're not a society that needs to be so free, because when they're so much freedom, again, it comes to the fact that there may be spatial plans, which are not in line with the county plan, because in order to please investors with potentials at all costs, I believe that in such circumstances it is possible for you to... from 1 euro, jump to 500 euros per square, that's also possible, and yet without a wider public interest and the fact that here, colleague Mrak Taritas said that the spatial plan is not brought to the council, brought by people who necessarily don't have to understand, the same thing they can even cheat if something bad is going to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All in all, I don't want to criticize anymore. The SDP club will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137163	Thank you very much. The next is the club of independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137164	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Of course I'll repeat that remark some colleagues and colleagues have already made. It's not good that this bill goes into urgent action. We understand the motivation, but it's about to say to the end a vividly truly fundamental or fundamental law regarding construction and spatial arrangement, and then it's not good on that side. However, I understand that the need is such that as the Proposer said, it would improve the place actually rank on a due business scale. However, these laws are passed not because they would be done, but because they would have effective safe construction, the construction that all the participants in the building will start from investors to projectors and monitors to perform performers and, of course, public bodies that are surrounding and controlling this process so that they can all do their part of the work for which they are professional and who are to be carried out. It would be ideal in an ideal sense if the investor had all the knowledge needed, so neither the designer nor the supervision should be required. He'd remain an investor and a performer, so things would be easier to work out. But that's not the case. Let us return to the question of designers, therefore those who are professional, who are responsible, who have passed professional exams and are responsible for respecting not only the Law on Construction or Spatial Planning, but all the laws, special, special laws that later have profound consequences on the security and the building itself that is being built. Well, it's good to have you back. I thought I read that in the public debate, there was an objection to the engineering and electrical part of the project that you returned it, because it really was an important part. What's not good about insurance buildings from fire hazards. So far, it's been designed by authorised designers. I mean, I don't know if you brought it back or if it's out. And it's going to be working from now on by a major designer, mostly architects who aren't professional in this area, so fire protection. If it's returned I don't know, but it means the sense of fire protection especially in today's times when this danger is getting bigger and right through that lab. If that's what projectors do, they're not dressed for it. One well - known architect said in his time that it was once drawn by hand, so the architects had more time to think. Today you're drawing electronically with the help of the computer, so there's less time. It's faster to draw, less time to think, so in that sense somehow this and the story of the ok-license can be a good story for the public, it can be a good story for the pier. However, the work must certainly be done. The work, regardless of the technology available to us, is a very serious and responsible job and someone needs to do it. That's why it's a 15-day deadline, I'm not sure how effective that is. The next thing we need to point out and since these two laws are united, which is already the story that little in the Republic of Croatia I say has become a joke because it said "when on vervain is born of grapes" it was replaced when the catastre and gruntovnica are united. So we have an unsettled situation in that space. When we ask the people of the profession who are there at what stage it's reached, it hasn't even started yet. Of course, there is something to be done, but it should be respected in the adoption of such laws and remarks. What is now most important, and it is related to the very intention of the legislator, i.e. the applicants, I apologize, the applicants to speed up the process of obtaining the building permit, these are all the consents they need, the specific conditions to be issued by public legal authorities and are then assumed if they do not issue within 15 days that they have issued. However, how many problems is it for an investor in the future? What if they deafen, don't betray and are thought to be issued, and later the investor wants to join, say, a water or other network, and then problems arise? We know or there have been cases in practice where such failures cause and certain and significant, large material costs. For example, during the construction of the water infrastructure, there was a serious need to change the project, where the designer made this change of project and the water route was transferred instead of scheduled to the road area. He didn't think about it, it wasn't expedient at the time, no special conditions were met from the Croatian roads. After that, the project was completed. We were supposed to do a technical checkup. Croatian roads refused to issue special conditions and there was considerable material damage. This could also happen with such a proposed solution to be achieved materially later, and then you don't really know who will, whether it's going to be done by the designer himself who is and the projectors are the same people who work for the salary, they are listed here as natural persons, and then they're significant damages. So, the amendments to the law that I have already been quite difficult in practice and we are afraid that these changes will further complicate the situation, and in particular the argument is that the profession objected that their proposals were not being listened to. counterpart Babic said and we see this through a public debate that very many remarks are included and the ministry or representatives of the ministry have very little to appreciate it is not good. So this is about professional laws, the profession should certainly be asked, there is no need to provoke them in any way. So let's say, here you are, Mr. Secretary of State, saying the implementation project is not necessary on the days of architects held in Split. It's not a good message because you sort of send an expert a message that can offend them, because they do these jobs every day. So we should have asked the profession, and we think that these legal changes will not help the future, that it will cause a number of other problems, that this problem should be approached more systematically, that it should build a new law, a new law that would not invent hot water, but rather listen to the profession and all the positive solutions found in our developed countries of our environment. Therefore, the Independent Representatives' Club will not support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137165	The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS, and time will be shared by the respected representative Topolko and colleague Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137166	Dear State Secretarys with Associates, Honorable colleagues and fellow MPs, here are two drafts of the law, the Law on Construction with the Final Proposal of the Law and the Law on Spatial Arrangement with the Final Proposal of the Law, by emergency procedure, and I will begin by saying that the HNS Club will support both laws. As regards the Law on Spatial Arrangements with the Final Proposal for a Law with this Law, it is intended to amend the laws which are necessary and which are urgent. It wants to simplify, speed up, facilitate the process of leaving local permits and increase the effectiveness of the implementation of the Law on Spatial Planning, and that is what we will get through the adoption of this bill. Also, the need to draw up this bill came from looking at previous experiences just... existing laws which have shown that certain areas and certain provisions need to be developed and removed from existing gaps and legal gaps and enter into the law elements that have not been covered by it so far. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In particular, one of the issues to be addressed by this law is the content and characteristics of data covering the spatial system of information. Art. 9 determines that acts on data from that system in administrative and other acts of the competent authorities use issue and issued for the purpose of implementing spatial plans of construction, use and removal of buildings shall have the power of public documents. In addition, the draft law prescribes duties and other public authorities, in addition to the existing law of those administrative bodies, professional administrative bodies and ministries, to make available data relevant for the spatial arrangement available through the information system, and to prescribe that they do not have the right to compensation for the provision of data, nor to allow the use of the data in question. It is complemented by the part-round work of the Department of Spatial Planning of the County in such a way that they can also develop a spatial plan of the area of special features if requested by the ministry or mayor. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The 16th spatial plan will be designed and delivered in electronic form. There is also a question of communication in the process of producing and adopting spatial plans by electrical means. Furthermore, this law also regulates the issues of the production and adoption of amendments and the addition of spatial plans adopted under the rules which were in force prior to the adoption of the Spatial Regulation Act of 2013 and the implementation of spatial plans adopted under those rules. Art. 30. The documentation required to be attached for the issue of a local authorisation shall be prescribed and that the documentation in question may also be shared in electronic form and by electronic means. On the subject of an idea project, it will have to contain a projector statement that it has been built in accordance with the spatial plan, and a special law and regulations under which local permits are issued. Also, this law defines the design of an idea project in electronic form. The content of the idea project and the cost of its production has been reduced. Art. 33. defines that an idea project, or parts thereof, is produced as an electronic record, so that the change in its content or replacement of its parts is disabled except in the prescribed case, and is signed by electronic signature. The investor shall be exempt from the obligation to obtain specific conditions and conditions of connection which are a condition for issuing a local authorisation. The establishment of specific conditions and conditions of accession requires a designer by means of a management body or ministry responsible for issuing a local operating permit in the space for which an idea project is developed. Therefore, the issue of communication between public authorities setting out the specific conditions and conditions for the accession of bodies issuing local permits and designers and by electronic means through the application of e-authority electronic programmes, and the specific conditions and conditions of accession are established as electronic documents. Those provisions will speed up the process and reduce the costs of determining the specific conditions and conditions of accession and ensure their determination within the prescribed time limits. Provisions of Art. In 47, the provisions of the Law on Spatial Regulation which regulates the issue of conditions for issuing a local authorisation are complemented. It is prescribed that an idea project must be developed in accordance with the specific conditions and conditions of accession, and that the conditions of accession are established. It shall also be amended to provide an exception for the issue of a local authorisation in the case where the urban planning of the arrangement has not been adopted. These amendments result in a reduction in the number of obligations of applicants for the issue of a local authorisation. The local authorisation will take place in certain regulations, prescribed cases according to Art. Also deliver 48 via an electronic ad panel. The issue of harmonisation or nostification of an idea project drawn up under foreign regulations is also regulated. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the The person performing the nostrification is obliged to draw up a written report, verify the project and make a statement, and the report and the certificate will be produced as an electronic record and signed by electronic signature. These amendments, which I have spoken of, but also numerous other amendments and additions mentioned in this bill, will certainly provide an answer to a number of questions and problems in the implementation of the existing Law on Spatial Planning. The system will introduce order and create an administration that will serve citizens effectively. With this additional information system, the ministry has made a significant step in its jurisdiction, which the other public authorities in the system must pass and be able to monitor. The development of the spatial planning information system where the goal is to collect all spatial plans and all interventions in space, includes the development of e-Inspection, e-File, where all permits and all e-Plans will be stored. This shows that the government of the Republic of Croatia is determined to implement reforms and in the area of spatial planning. Digitalisation of the process and networking of institutions is crucial in establishing quality and modern administration. We believe in... that this bill will come upon your approval precisely because of one of the main tendencies of the proposings, which is to simplify, speed up and facilitate the process of entering the location permits, which means even better efficiency of the implementation of the spatial planning law itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that such a bill will have a positive impact on the increase in the number of investments in Croatia, and therefore on the economic movement. As regards financial resources, it is important to say that the implementation of such a law does not require additional funding from the state budget. And given the time, only briefly, as regards the Amendments and Supplements Act proposal, as I have mentioned, the HNS Club will also support this bill and I am glad that today we can discuss the draft laws and measures that have been announced for some time and which are part of the National Reform Programme. In addition to the introduction of a large number of newspapers by the bill, the bill also more precisely defines certain provisions of the existing law, which were found not to be clearly defined during the law's implementation and to lead to a slowdown and difficulty in the process and the start of construction itself. Here, now fellow Curray will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137167	Dear Representative Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137168	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, try to say what we can and why today, what we are discussing and why this is even an emergency procedure. We heard from the secretary of state that he said that by 1.5. the result for determining the parameters for the Doing Business rankings is being followed. It doesn't matter just so she can tell this government to get in somewhere so someone can praise something, that's because that's what investors are looking at. And we're doing this right now, so we can do an emergency procedure as soon as possible to do something we might have already had 10, 15 years ago. If nothing else, we could have had some, some technical assumptions, networking, etc. With these changes, we save money first. So there is no copying, countless papers, etc., everything is done digitally and reduces the cost of obtaining permits from an average of 11% of the investment value to 3.7, which is even less than the European average, which is 4%. We're saving money. We save time, even though they say time is money. No more going to the counters, waiting, in every public body, and especially with gas, water, electricity, I don't know what not, how many, twenty of these public justices, 30 even have in the process of entering the building permit, not talking to the administration itself. Procedures have been reduced from 22 to 10 in exceptional cases, to a maximum of 14. In Europe, it's, like, 12.7. Again even below what is the European average. So, yes, and here we are first because obviously we can. Of course, what's equally important in the whole story is transparency. That at any moment, not only is the investor who is now on the side and we're letting the profession lead the main word, and here we're talking about the projector, who is a minority in the process and the party, he has everyone, of course, and the investor inspecting the subject where he is, why, who he is with, which is why, that... and who is responsible and how he acts or does not act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he has a name and a last name every day that's waiting. Or at least an institution. What may be most important and what is an example of all the other actions in the country, when we talk about administration, in the state service, is the silence of the administration, which, if I know it well, was the only use, in the principle of applying the first law of the foreign local, regional or state level. In principle, if you had a property that was so declared you had to offer it first to the state, then 60 days would not suit you, and that would mean that it accepts, that you could sell that property further. That so far was, I think the only example, now it is introduced into the law, that within 15 days they must be manifested if they have any objections, if 16 days have not been manifested, are considered, or, even if they are apparent, is considered if in those 15 days there was no obvious, that they agree that this is actually a positive answer. There is no longer any unnecessary waiting in drawers, begging, as we love what we always ask for, for someone to put something on top, etc. You can see exactly when the object entered, where it stands, and then we can ask the legitimate question why it stands. I say legitimately, I may be that certain conditions, may be to consider something, once it goes on, once we force all equal bodies into the process, that clearly and loudly for all their positions put the conditions for the connection, for whatever it takes, then there are no more misunderstandings, no more calling, no more asking, I don't know, the designer thinks one thing, doing another, my people made the project in accordance with the laws and regulations. If anything... Then call or as people would say, keep your mouth shut forever and that's what this law brings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Digital age, digital conference, networking of all these, you don't have to call anyone anymore. State... It has an obligation to do so in itself, my people sound like science fiction for Croatia, and today we've been discussing it, and since 1.5 it may already be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's actually an example of how to work and that can only be done when we all get together and work in the right direction, so once again, the HNS Club, of course, will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137169	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of IDS, PGS and RI, in the name of which will speak the respected representative Tulio Demetlika, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137170	Dear Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the IDS, PGS and RI, I will briefly refer to these two draft laws. At the very beginning, I would like to welcome the Ministry's intention to remove the shortcomings, which slow down the possibility of starting construction and issuing useful permits for construction in the Republic of Croatia, with a view to creating a more favourable, business climate and competitiveness of the economy. I'm asking myself, are we gonna do it in a bang? I doubt it. The second question, will the introduction of digitisation shorten the overall process of starting works for construction? I'm afraid not. At first glance, the impression is that the building permit will be obtained overnight and the retailers on Kiosk Press. But let's not kid ourselves because it's not really gonna be like that. Let's not fool potential investors. The outcome of the building permit, I will remember that in 2008 when it was transferred to cities, i.e. County, a building permit today, relatively fast, but I'm asking the Ministry's representatives, do you have an answer, when an investor comes in and shows interest in certain investments, can you give him an answer from the moment he submits a request to the moment he gets his administrative license, how long does it take? The mayors at the local level meet each other every day. And tell me how you'll be sure to tell that investor about the whole process, it takes you six months, three months, a year? The building permit is a formality issued in most of these successful cities or counties, within 8, 10 or even less days. However, the whole process is complicated. And that's why I'm going to look back at one detail in the whole process, which is why most often extends the deadlines for the outcome of the necessary acts. The fact that requests for special conditions are delivered to public authorities, digitally, as you have said, does not mean simplifying the process, nor shortening procedural actions. Because from the final draft of the law, it certainly comes out that all procedural actions, from the current law, are still in force. Furthermore, in the transitional and final provisions, a period of 2 years for the switchover to digital conditions, which can be expected that most public authorities will continue to issue those conditions in analogue form. The main problem is that public authorities, they don't have a system that's adapted to this new system. And they'll need some time to adjust. It will be necessary to invest additionally in the equipment, as well as in the education of the staff. These are precisely the problems of implementing this law and let's not expect positive results overnight. We're introducing digitization, which, of course, is positive, but our foundations are flimsy. With these laws, we will not eliminate the remaining problems that have long been resolved and some predecessors have mentioned it, it is a lack of consistency between the catasters and land books with the real situation on the ground, an unsettled return of seized pensions, unnecessary and longstanding litigation between the state and cities and municipalities about proof of ownership of land and land status, as well as the status of so on. tourist land. And not to add any further, these are all development and investment brakes. We lack further coordination of several ministries, specifically your ministry, the judiciary, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of State Property, the state geodetic administration. So the adoption of these laws is a partial solution, which, apart from raising ratings on a scale of favourable business climate and competitiveness of the economy, will not bring the desired growth of investment and economic development. We're taking a picture of the roof of a damaged building. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137171	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the HDS of HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, secretaries, assistants. Our Club will support these amendments to the law because they have a positive effect anyway. So these two laws aim to simplify procedures, speed up procedures, improve Croatia's rating in this part. They aim to improve the investment climate. So there's no reason if it's a reduction in the documentation, if it's about issuing conditions not to go door-to-door, but to solve everything by digital means then it's really the intensity of speeding up the overall process. And we believe that for this reason absolutely laws apply and support. It's exactly what my colleague Demetlika used to say. All these problems are ahead of us and they will stay in the good part and they will have to be dealt with, of course, in order for these amendments to the law to actually have full effect. Because if there's not going to be another solution to the problems that we're facing and all those who want to build something in Croatia, then we're going to be stiff again, stiff, and the question is how long it's going to take to bring this together, because simply the biggest problem and the hardest problem as most things are going to be about connecting the system. So, not only within the Office of Construction and Investors and Designers, but also public bodies, of course, means that it will need to give conditions and special conditions. They will all have to be tied up, and today we have a situation that is still late today, and that today when certain conditions are sought for a certain accession, or when some conditions of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, any other state institutions, then all deadlines are exceeded. So this provision that after 15 days, if the conditions for accession are not issued, it will be considered that everything is fine and that the issue of a building permit or special conditions can be initiated, and then it will be 30 days. I'm afraid that there will be some problems and that investors will then stop at the very realization, therefore, of the accession that will be. We have a situation in practice that really requires that we move in this direction to resolve the issue of building permits. I had one example where people complained to me, it's about Dalmatia, of course it's not any attack and impact on any area of the Republic of Croatia, but people get a building permit, they even got all the conditions. Then when they were supposed to join the power, then HEP gave them a decision, a solution to build a platoon, a transistor station, I don't know what's not expensive and it costs $12 million in total. Of course that's where the problem arises. Now, you need to see that such situations are avoided, that it doesn't come to the investor starting. There are no prior conditions for such a form, such a vision, and then a copy of such an invoice or such a request comes to him. Croatia is not equal in all parts. In particular, this can be said of the activity of issuing building permits. Therefore, it is well known to obtain a building permit in a larger city in the Republic of Croatia or on our coast that it is completely different from issuing building permits in that rural part of the Republic of Croatia. The issue of a building permit in places like this, here I will, always cite an example of the space from which I come The town of Chrysovci lasts from months to three months. When all documents are submitted to the office, a building permit shall be issued in principle within two days regardless of whether it is a business entity or a private investment, a private family home. On the other hand, I have very fresh examples that a man in a Dalmatian town two years ago began the process of obtaining a building permit and is still missing. So at every step, on every issue of terms, on every document that was to be issued it was held in drawers, brakes, brakes, brakes, and still standing out those papers. I believe that precisely these amendments to the law will make this story a little balanced that it will prevent exactly this kind of braking of investment in the issue of building permits, as is this example I'm talking about here. But what I'd still like and want to point out here is another kind of problem and that's the other part, which means it has no direct connection to these two laws. But it has to do with investments that practically these two laws have the intensities to improve the investment climate and improve investment opportunities. So, love of God, we have a problem in the functioning of the state system. Two state bodies don't work. I have a situation and a case, and here is the assistant minister for this in the area of St. John's Town Hall. They also have a building that isn't powerful because they had a problem with property-legal relations. They even had an administrative dispute. In the end, the prosecutor gave up the administrative dispute and said – okay, here's the country to build kindergarten, it's church land, and the church is free of charge, so she gave up and offered it to the municipality, and then the show starts, then the show starts. They give up, the Administrative Court, waiting for a decision to be made, a decision to make, then that decision stands, they wait, the deadlines are running, so kindergarten must be built within a certain deadline because they have received European money. Then they get the solution now, so the procedure has been suspended, that the deadlines of the appeals have expired even though they gave up the deadlines, although they gave up complaints in that first part, and now it's all over again, the notice of the age of the prosecutor's attorney's office, the notice gets the Municipality as a defendant, but the papers from the Administrative Court to the Ministry of Construction did not go and the Ministry of Construction under our laws and regulations cannot practically grant permission to issue a legal building permit. And it's going on. And they write rushes, and it spins, it spins, it spins, and I'm personally involved because at the end of the day we call to see if it goes, whether it comes. Now, the procedures that go on without solving these things, without any problems like this, will not be accelerated because most of the time there are property-legal relations, and when involved, some state body, some process or state property, or this problem, we will not solve the problem, and we will stop investment again. So it is simply necessary to continue in this direction, to change other acts, other laws to bring all this together in the end and achieve the goal that these laws aim to achieve. These two, these two amendments to the Law by our Court of Justice in the Club go in that direction and we support them therefore, but we also point out that other regulations should be amended accordingly, which also hinders investment and the issue of a building permit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137173	Thank you. We move on to an individual debate, and the first one will be a respected representative of Davor Loncar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137174	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, dear secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Today or this morning on the Committee, I made my remarks regarding one and the other Law, and I will briefly look back at how and how to speed up the procedures and procedures for obtaining works for construction. ... I've prepared a lot of material here that I'm going to cut this out through, my, the main theme this morning was that when it comes to making urban plans, it'll all be shortened in a different way by making detailed plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because the reason between one and the other is where in the detailed plan all technical parameters are defined exclusively in the way that the designer should be designed... a specific project and way to implement and build these, and infrastructures... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] that detailed plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A detailed plan shall take place part of the procedure that shortens the issue of works for construction, and in particular local permits which are not needed at that time. Why? Because the detailed plan or copy of the detailed plan changes the location permit, which is in the final procedure for issuing a building permit for at least half a year. As for the conditions necessary from public-legal bodies for the issue of works for construction, I suggest that they be used when it comes to housing, especially housing, and part of facilities for business purposes unless they are polluters or not... the purposes to be used in this way from spatial plans or detailed plan, which would also speed up the process in relation to the current situation, as it would be shortened and using it from a spatial plan or a detailed plan. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for asking for consent from neighbors regarding the issue of works, I find that absolutely unnecessary. Why? Because in the detailed plan, they were formed literally each particle individually. So there's no reason for me or anyone else to ask for a building permit to ask for consent from their neighbor if the plot is formed, seduced through the cadastre, and seduced even through land books. So through this vision and this gives one faster opportunity to obtain a building act, and what is ultimately the most important investor does not care how to obtain a building permit. Him... to get permission as soon as possible, means by this very way and by this law that was from 2003 to 2009, in which I am now transferring this to you, precisely on the trail of a detailed plan and a reduction of local permits helped investors to get to the building act as soon as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the municipalities and cities are concerned, I see no reason for all the provisions and measures of the spatial plan not... through the plans of the lower order, and it's not true when someone says that the plans of the municipalities and cities are not in line with the County plans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was never in practice. So we all co-ordinated, even one period and with the ministries in which we asked for an opinion on spatial plans, and especially the part relating to the coast or coast. Something that was different in rural areas, but in this part of which, which I'm talking about, was actually helpful in such a way as to speed up the acquisition of works for construction. Me and the club said I'd support this for a reason that it's very important for us to raise our ratings. However, I further propose that, after all this, we make a final law of one and the other, not in 6 months or 2 years, but to pass a law that will last long and which we will apply in practice for a long time and really analytically and judge to come forward in making these two laws. We're no smarter than anyone. I know from experience because I went through Slovenia and Switzerland and I know how they actually do it. One very important thing. It is not a reference that issues a building permit or a location it is not his duty to search for the project whether he has an armature, whether he has stability from... etc. [[You don't understand.]] The administrative procedure in other of our neighbouring countries takes a very short time in such a way that the designer is the only one, exclusively obliged to comply with all the rules of the spatial plan and the conditions given to him by the public authorities, not that the referent loses months and months seeking out in the project documentation whether something - is set up as a good art, a wedding, a roof, etc. It's about the Construction Act. As regards the use of the permit, especially when it comes to residential buildings up to 400 square meters, it was once ideally imagined, it was ideally implemented, and therefore I suggest that the location permit for the construction of a house or a residential building, or an establishment that serves a business purpose and is not a contaminant not to issue a local permit, but to cancel it and issue building conditions for construction of a house up to 400 square meters in accordance with the spatial plan of the municipality or city. It is mandatory to assign a projector under the design authority to take responsibility in accordance with the main project up to 400 square metres. Also, up to 400 square metres from special conditions, introduce only elaborates in fire protection. Why? Because the difference is only in meters of square business space or building. And secondly, introduce a commitment... building with the design of the elaborate on... [[You don't understand.]] and an elaborate on the state of play which can record the building in the catastro. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, as regards public authorities, it should be limited as I said earlier only that they are based unless they are polluters from the spatial plan. So we make spatial plans that lasts a year and a half to two depending on how where we actually go through enough and solved what our people say we get this basic act which is the basis for any implementation in local administration units and I can even say regional administrations. So all that matters through the parameters and even environmental protection or environmental studies, we do it in a way that goes into the design of a spatial plan. And I don't see any reason if you're planning a 5-hectare living space that you have to repeat in this space, especially again, the same thing as looking for environmental conditions and protection when it's already done with the development of a spatial plan. As far as the Law on Spatial Planning is concerned, I was just a few minutes ago in the articles, in article 141 said: “The conclusion of the consideration... state in space... [[You don't understand.]] in the space shall be published’, etc. "in the National Journal and the paper". [[You don't understand.]] I suggest that instead of saying, “we consider” the word “adopt”. Why? Because it's just being adopted by the bodies of the municipalities and the city. They are not considering, but they are adopting this act, and it becomes powerful, or legal and effective after adoption. As far as the article 44 is concerned, I must point out that in this law we are giving freedom which is not good, because in this situation we can build a camp... there will be a lot of pressure on local administration units by those who are interested in being assigned certain land that is not even in line with the spatial plan, let alone that we have come to make commitments or... [[You don't understand.]] or a detailed plan. [[You don't understand.]] This should therefore be stopped, especially in the Adriatic region. As regards Article 79(4), it is said: “Recreation of existing buildings”. What if she's over 68? So far, the law has been told if it's older than 68 that it doesn't need a building permit, that the belief of age changes the building permit and I don't see any reason why it shouldn't stay that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137175	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137176	Thank you very much. Mr. Lonchar, I see you had something else to say in your debate, so here's a replica to give you one more minute to explain and some things you didn't get here. But what I think is crucial and you said at the very beginning that this law is not a final solution or that it should not be a solution for the Republic of Croatia, but that it will still have to be changed. So on that side, I'm interested in your opinion, which should still be done immediately, so maybe we should try it out in further discussion and maybe with some suggestions, maybe later and with the amendments, fix that that doesn't change every half year, year. On that side, I'd like to hear your review, because I see that you're very well prepared and you need a little more time, so here's another minute you have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137177	Here you go, Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137178	Thank you. There is no need to be afraid of fellow Maras making such a document for a long time and being a real document that will benefit everyone. And it really needs to involve the public and especially the profession to make this part of the document quality and that it serves this, not only 2 but 10 years or more. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137179	We continue with individual debates, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137180	Thank you very much. My dear secretary, I wish you didn't have a party meeting here with the CNS, I know you're the CNS, if you could listen, I'll wait 20 seconds. Secretary, Your Honor. Dear secretary, Your Honor, I can tell you something. Dear Secretary, may I speak to you? And already if you have a party meeting, I don't think Parliament should be much I have something to tell you, you weren't just before. [[Intruder: Mr. Bulj, keep going.]] Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Intruder: But continue, please with debate.]] I once again warned you, you weren't here on behalf of the club. You know, you've been on board, that I've proposed a law amending the bill supplementing the Construction Act where I asked you to be in Article. The 128th change and add that base stations, i.e. that they are not in this Regulation determined that no minister has the right to determine that they are simple structures. It is the law to add that the base stations, the antenna pillars, where people are long-term staying, to mean the building permit needed. Why? Simply, across Europe, not the EU, but Europe, in all countries, needs a building permit. That's what we talked about on the board, for the 10th time. Now you've passed the Law of Construction, Amendment, and in that law you don't really change it. You change this article, but you do not change what is very important, means that, as in Germany, Deutsche Telekom, so in Croatia, it is not this exhibit, HT, that it has, that they need a building permit. I've given you my reasons. The base stations in the Republic of Croatia are placed on kindergartens, hospitals, schools, by apartment buildings, children's windows, cultural goods, I'll mention, here's when you walk the road of Klisa, so you'll see down on the fortress, the historical fortress, the base station is stricter. What are they doing that for? And which is why the biggest profit, 42% of the teleoperer, is this HT in Croatia, i.e. Deutsche Telekom? 42% profit? It's only because we don't have to build a permit. And even a useful permit should have, breaking the law. But, like I'm on... I had to protest, the police were coming, they were fighting for years, and in the end it was determined that the people were right to protest, I was there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Five years ago. And what's going on? And now that's, that little salary because they made that antenna they put on an object that doesn't have a valid license. It's still standing. And the man came from Australia. All his capital invested here working his whole life in that house and exactly under his window dick and grandkids put a base station. Without the neighbor's consent, without asking local self-government. So is that possible in Croatia? Are we a colony? I'm... When she was a Justice Commissioner, I asked, "We're a colony." [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Croatia is currently a colony, it is not an equal member of the EU. I asked Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic here, which is why teleopers don't behave in the Republic of Croatia and why we don't pass the law to be equal, no less, like in Germany. On the board, when I gave you changes to the Construction Act, the base stations must have antenna pillars building permits, just like in Austria, the same as in Germany, the same, and even in Serbia, in Montenegro, so in countries outside the EU, they need a building permit. I don't see any reason, I think, so hundreds of people are calling me. In Split, Kašteli, Sinj, Zapresic, Zagorje, Zagreb. So they put children's kindergartens on hospitals. So imagine that your child or my target by the window where you have your own house, where you live or apartment, that one morning a base station will be established. What would you do? Why are they doing this? Why are you guessing them? Because they don't need to invest in project documentation, they don't need to invest in infrastructure, because if they're supposed to move 400 meters, or I don't know, they'd have to invest in infrastructure. So why are you so afraid of them? So I know that the Prime Minister is important to you and Angela Merkel, but this is Croatia, here we have to have laws like they have up there and protect their space and charge them for it, as normally in Germany. Not to have a 42% profit and therefore boasts the head of HT's administration that they have the highest profit in Europe. Of all the states. HT has a Deutsche Telekom group. And 20% is the EU average. Well, people, I mean, in Zadar, broom in a church bell tower so you don't see a base station. So imagine how far that went? In the church bell tower, stop, is it possible in Germany to make it and then hide it, then do it by the house and throw the chimneys fake people in Castles, no, look, there's nothing from the end, nothing like mushrooms after the rain. Instead of us investing money that's approved in our network, which we have, I don't know how much, 200 million, huge amount of this money for our digital network, they're setting up base stations wherever they think of it. Wherever they think of it. We're no longer asking for anything less of this amendment that I put on my ankle. In 128, no less than in Germany, Austria, Sweden, I even wrote and di set up Tele2 my base station in a way overnight, I wrote to the Swedish ambassador, Excellency, whether it would behave like that in Sweden, that during the night someone would end up 5 meters from the children's room set up an antenna pillar or a base station and that their drawer would be test rabbits. As you control the orderly radiation and frequency,... illegally placed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The man by the bedroom, where his grandkids sleep, came back from Australia, and so all of Croatia is their colony, this is not the colony of Angela Merkel, not Juncker, not Tusk, not Macron,... This is Croatia, and I see no reason not to support this amendment that I have given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I've also given legal changes, you've been on the board but there's no way to come to the agenda, I think fellow MPs that it's minimal what we have to do, the teleopers are obliged to act like they're in their own countries, which is a minimum, and I think it would be a tribal to do. As far as the law itself is concerned, you'd still have to say that the geodites are being cast out, a geodetic background that will cause chaos. Chaos. Since the Austro-Hungarian Catastrian books haven't changed, and how will you, but before that... It's said, the border, the milestones, the rocks, the piles of rocks, it's just in reality it's not like when Austria was drawing that line, the Austro-Hungarian hey, it will, from that it'll... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] , you have as a reduction of procedure, and will essentially result in a judicial process that will be much more difficult and painful, much more difficult and painful. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So when you're passing the law, then don't rush, listen to the public debate, turn on the profession, because this isn't any reform, in us aren't land plots, land books aren't solved, it's not a cadastre, because it's not really a state as it's drawn there, it's just not. And you without a geodetic, no, no, no, I'm talking about it now because the profession wrote it to me and people are who know a lot better than people are. Are our land books arranged? Are the cadastar books arranged? That's an obligation, isn't it? But it's not, it means that this law is inconclusive, that these two are made, that the land books, then this would make sense, and this doesn't make any sense without a geodetic background, because there's gonna be litigation, because it's just a real situation on the ground books, it's not, it's incomparable, it's got, like, five meters, ten meters. Well, that's what it says, but then how are you going to get rid of you when you reduce the procedure of this geodetic base, how is that going to fix you? Your intention is to send a message that you have to invest, that the investor is coming to facilitate the procedure, I understand what your message is, but your law is invulnerable, precisely because of these two things. Until these two things are made, this is a good thing that land books and garters, that, and catastrus, they're solved, but they're not solved, so we're complicated, there's just going to be more litigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137181	Two replicas. Mr. Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137182	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bulj therefore spoke about base stations in Zagreb, Zagreb is indeed an eldorado for base stations, it is situated near kindergartens, and close to schools, but this Law sort of degrades the profession. We had a month ago announcement of the Manhattan project in Zagreb, where the architects' society made serious remarks, so here in the City of Zagreb you don't listen to the profession, so if you have one society of architects who... Excellent experts and who say that this project should be seriously considered, where this is done in Zagreb, and since you have a similar experience in Belgrade that has been very bad, and it is burdened with numerous and affairs, therefore, we do not learn from the mistakes of others, as you comment on the fact that the profession does not actually listen to us in general. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137183	Well, unfortunately, here's a hasty bill, this law is made,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137184	Mr. Bully, Mr. Bully, Mr. Bully, you have the right to an answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137185	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137186	Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137187	I'm sorry I didn't get your approval.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137188	Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137189	Thank you very much. Here is the problem, this law is not obeying the profession, the same profession is not respected, and through public debate it is not included in the best way. It's just like being ruled by some kind of freak. To pass the Law, and throughout the time warn people, means to a thousand mysts, only in Istria is the spatial plan they've defined well, some other cities, but the teleopers are breaking again, that's what my colleagues from the IDS told me, where they're setting up within the forbidden base station zones. Base stations are setting up whoever comes to mind. And another fellow MP. Imagine that by your house, the apartment under your children's window overnight remains a base station aimed at that window. There's no other way but to drink. And we're going to drink them, and that's only because of the profession and the courtship of Angela Merkel, Macron, Tusk, Juncker and the team upstairs who commands everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137190	Time. Mr. Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137191	Comrade Bulj, there is no question that there are good solutions to this proposal, that there are also good intentions. But the road to hell is also filled with good intentions. I'd just like to draw attention to this pressing urgency to apply to the competition and possibly move to which place on the scale, it's even known for what reason. But here we have caused one terrible deafness to the consequences of this and such a potentially passed law on the consequences of which it warns us and reminds us of the profession. And one more moment, maybe he stayed out in the shadows for a while. The silence of the administration, the institute of silence of the administration and the continuation of the process is the basis for many crimes from lawless construction to corruption and should be accounted for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137192	Mr. Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137193	Well, I'd agree that the silence of the administration is one of the bigger problems, but that silence of the administration is basically the silence of the administration. Our administration should be exactly in the legal regulations to provide and provide answers and help investors invest. We're at the bottom of investment just for this. This law is his intention is good, it is noble, it is essentially to be solved, it has reduced the procedure, certain things he must pay for. However, it would be better if the building permit were cheaper than if this geodetic background were now thought of, and we still have the Australian-Hungarian cadastrian books on most of it. So, they'll only make it worse, they'll create litigation disputes, there'll be milestones, sometimes they'll go to stone, a bunch of things in my Zagora, and probably they'll do it too, there'll be only disputes, you'll make problems, litigation. This law is good because we've solved books, land books and cadastres, then this law would be good, and this is how you didn't listen to the profession, you want to settle this urgently, like us. We want to invite investors. [[Intruder: Thank you]] In fact, this is going to be a lot more expensive for investors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137194	Mrs. Devereaux. Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137195	Thank you very much, Vice President HS, State Secretary and Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, I will continue where I am on behalf of the club, I think the last sentence I have said that I often feel that colleagues working in the ministry and who are somehow engaged in law and law want out of that big train, from the first and second wagons, to get away with everything, but they don't control the rear wagons, so they get in the back cars and what they need and what they don't need. If one of us had a solution and one of us had a magic wand, I'm sure he would have used it and not that law, now I'm going to refer a little more to the Construction Act, so many times. So I'll just use it and mention it, so ever since the Croatian state, the Construction Act, I'll list the year in which we brought it or changed it, 92th time, 92nd time, 93th, 95th, 99th time, 99th time, 2001, 2003, then 2003, the second time, then 2004, then 2007, then 2009, and then in 2011 twice, then in 2012 twice, and then we brought it in 2013 and by 2017, it hasn't changed. What's he saying? He's talking about how we actually know we have a problem, we know that building permits are slow, we know that we're not able to solve all the problems and we want to solve them. When an e-authority was introduced, therefore, in the 2013 legislation, and only in 2015 did we start with an e-authority, then a colleague said, and I think he's absolutely right and that it's true, that we've now discovered the wheel and we're driving in a carriage, and we'd like to ride in a spaceship. And that is the essence of the problem of this law. And you will create conditions with this law, create models, but in the Republic of Croatia you will be able to use it rarely. Why is that? So, the first thing is an unsolved cadastre and land books. The government that will really want to make the right reform will have to make a special state office, a common cadastre and a grantovnica in one place. I am that.../The speaker understands... at one point and said to lock up 100 people and say, the Republic of Croatia has a construction area somewhere 7-8% of the territory, take 7-8% of the territory and solve it. So that's the first thing to be done. Another thing, really define which plans you specifically or simplify that are fast and possible to bring, but the procedure of public debate cannot. So the public hearing procedure is something that has to be because it's decided on spatial plans. Next, when you get to the location or building permit, you pass the grandmother with the cookies. On the building permit, these can only lie down with their shoulders and words, that was part of your spatial plan. And third thing, people, so let's see what we have at this point. We have a relationship of investors who, of course, have a desire to get their construction license and build as soon as possible, we have a designer who participates and who is trying to do it best and we have people in the offices. Remember how difficult it was to introduce an e-registration, it tried to find everything, and the e-registration was just to make it the same way in the first phase, to be the same building permit in all parts of the Republic of Croatia, that the same time someone got a building permit in Sibenik and when they got it in Bjelovar, it was the same building permit. So that's what we have to change, and that's the effort the ministry has to make, to make all the offices, to put them on for the second time, and to round them up for the third time, so give them all the tools that they can use. But my men, while we don't have a fixed cadastre and a garter, we don't have a base. And now we're messing around here all the time and look at what we're tampering with, a little special conditions they've been looking for offices, so he's been looking for an investor a little bit, so he's been looking for a designer a lot, so he's been in the law a lot, either if within 15 days there's not a special condition or consent or whatever the confirmation, we think it's been issued. Look how many times it's been used, very little because people in offices just don't dare because one day investors will come and say, look, you gave me permission without special conditions or without confirmation, and I have a problem. So there's a few things. So, it has to be a simple law, you have to have all the tools in your hands, you can't let the law pass the things individual that aren't good and then control, there's no other. And that's the only way out of which, that can be done, that it's simple, it's not, that you have to resent a lot of them, you have to, that you'll get to the mayor because, therefore, you have on one side, let's understand the thing to the end. The ministry does the law, the HS makes the law, but law enforcement is, now I'm going to tell my colleague Bull what he recently told one of his other colleagues, I'm going to stop by my debate until my colleague Bulj settles his deals, because if they're worth someone else's, then it's worth it to his colleague Bulj... Thank you, so if it's worth the same thing, I'd just like it to be true for everything. [[You can't hear the intrusion from the assembly.]] So there are tools, the Ministry of Law Preparation, HS passed the law, but where law enforcement is on the ground, in offices that have either cities or county, without cooperation with them, we will not post an effect. Now there's the final meaning of this cooperation that must be, so that's what I said, the law can be the best in this world, but if you have all those who put their feet in your door and who say you can't. So, I've heard 100 times the reasons why you can't. Every time I prayed you'd tell me three reasons why you could. I know twice as many reasons why not. So these two laws have things that you have inside of pragmatism, or because of an unusual coalition, you have accepted that the laws be introduced to you. It'll give you a mess. I repeat once again to you, in the law of spatial arrangement this problem of non-compliance, it issue of permits, and there the urban plan of arrangements with certain conditions. The fact that you no longer have a deadline to make a public hearing report is the introduction of a riot. That's how you played something on the little door, and you won't close that door again. In the Construction Act, you have a problem. I wonder why the Ministry should issue a permit to the national park? You don't have to. Don't drag into the ministry what the ministry needs or doesn't need. Get out of the ministry. Let's go to the field. And something that I do in this ministry's assembly, so, some things you have to do like this, some things like that, some of you are a little less pragmatic and others you don't. You shouldn't have left the inspection. The inspection must be under the auspices of the ministry. When you take legalization, what are the two main reasons why everyone states why they were illegally building? Unsolved property-legal relations on earth. And another reason is the slow issue of licenses. And what was the point of legalization and e-licence, let's just remember. We said - let's give it a chance to legalize as much as possible. Let's parallelize it and let's give the e-registration to make the building permit as simple as possible so it can get faster. And absolutely defensive lines with a strong inspection. What did we miss? We've missed a strong inspection. The inspection stays where it is. He's going to the grand inspectorate. It would have been incomparably better if the inspection had gone to cities where licenses and counties were issued because permits were issued on the ground. We don't give permission to some imaginary space. We issue a permit in the field of one municipality, one city, one county, and the state in my opinion has always claimed it, and I will argue as long as I have the opportunity to speak, the ministry should only issue permits of importance to the state: for highways, for power plants, for something important. There's other things the ministry shouldn't be dealing with. But then if you're giving a tool, as we've legalized, we've given the Law on Legalization, we've said that legalization is being settled where it happened, that the legalisation funds remain where the illegal construction happened, and that only makes sense. I, I think my experience is a long time in this story and I'm sure and I know why you went this due business is so you'll have the law. But it's a colorful lie. What the ministry needs to do at this time: visit all offices, create on the ground conditions that these laws can be as enforceable. I think that's what my colleague Lonchar said. I don't think we should have a reference to the armature because he can't even watch it. The referent looks at the consistency with the spatial plan and scribbles whether you have everything you have. It's so sophisticated all these procedures that there's a review and everything. But don't let anything that doesn't get into your system and don't let something that turned out to be bad into your spatial planning system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137196	Thank you, too. Mr. Lonchar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137197	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Taritash, one question please, it's a typical building of objects especially of residential nature. Do you think one building permit is enough for 10 type houses in sequence and that only base data is changed in the project? Why would I ask that? Because a lot of municipalities and cities want to do a type-building project and offer it to their housing companies. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137198	Mrs. Dark Taritash's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137199	I absolutely think that's okay. But even today, when you have a type project, you can get a solution to the type project and work on it. That's a solution issued by the Ministry. Call your colleague and colleagues and make a deal on how it's going. And the point is, you always have to watch what's last. I absolutely advocate that for everything that's simple to be like that. We have since the Law of 2013 and the Regulation on simple works where you don't have to for an auxiliary facility up to 50 squares, it has to be consistent with the spatial plan, you don't go to a building permit anymore, but you have a major project, registration of the beginning of works and a useful permit. So we have another rule that allowed a series of things because we really don't need to capitulate everything. Well, of course, when a man comes to the office and you tell him that his garage needs it, that, that and that, he'll say goodbye, with the boys over the weekend, we'll build a garage and I'll deal with it later. The point is to make life easier for people. But the point is to control the space.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137200	Time. Thank you. Mrs. Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137201	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. These two Proposals for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Regulation and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Construction Act should be supported and I think that the aim and intention of the Proposer, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry is very good. In fact, we should remind ourselves that construction in the Republic of Croatia in 2018 again marked growth and this third year in a row and reached the highest level since 2008. It is these indicators that are why we also have an improvement in the country's macroeconomic situation, GDP growth, employment growth, etc. But when we talk about the number of licenses dropped, there's something different. The number of cooperative licenses issued and that's where we record growth. However, when it comes to other permits, we are already recording a fall not because there are not enough submitted requests, but precisely because the procedure has certainly been tabled. We will agree that it is not a matter of obtaining a building permit to build a smaller family home or, for example, work. like us in Vodice building a sewer system that provides for a connection to each house and the entire area of the city where more than 8 800 citizens, over 2,000 households and so on, over the tourist season, and it will all be covered with maybe 5 or 6 permits. However, this is all the reason why we have to ask ourselves how to help and how the situation on the ground would be better. As it comes from Sibenik-Knin County, I received from their Office for Spatial Planning and Building a few data. Namely, they also support these amendments and supplement both laws, but they too, and I want our citizens to know what the real situation is and which is why both the legislator and the legislator are going in this direction. Namely, in the second half of last year, it was solved in that office 714 items, about 120 cases a month. Administrative cases, along with an irregular 1291, but at the same time 895 administrative and 1332 irregular cases were received, which says, I said earlier, to solve 120 administrative cases monthly, and it gets 150, which means they again have a solid delay in having all the backlogs solved earlier. As of 1 January 2019, they have 9 700 unsolved. When we add the items that will now be obtained, given that there are no more agencies and expect about 3,000 items to be returned for reprocessing, we see how long it will take them without taking new items. These changes to the law will certainly make it easier and their task is to reduce the number of processes, to limit deadlines for public services to show, and to make it cheaper to issue permits, however, it should be said that they are not even informationally prepared at this point. As far as personnel are concerned, we know that younger personnel are far more capable of underestimating older people who have experience, and yet there are different employees with whom they adopt knowledge faster and slower. It is commendable that the ministry has already started education, but they have a certain fear of it because the minister and here too, there is very little talk here today about when such a permit will be obtained in such a way. According to Art. 64. The construction law stands fine, and little is heard today, so I would like our potential investors and our citizens to know that 2 years from the date of entry into force of this law, that the counties, large cities and cities whose administrative bodies are performing administrative work create conditions, despite the fact that the law enters into force on the 8th day of its publication. There will certainly give our counties all the effort even though we need to know that there are those who have not yet introduced the e-Allegation, so there is a big difference between counties and counties. But, public legal bodies like, I don't know, water and sewerage, Electra, a 15-day deadline in which, if they're not shown, they will be considered compatible with a particular project, can create a considerable problem in the realization or construction of that facility. They'll say, we didn't have time or we didn't have enough personnel strength or we don't have technical conditions, our server doesn't support such receiving such emails and so on. And that's why they won't get a certain connection to, I don't know, Elektra or water later. When it comes to the Law on Spatial Planning, colleagues spoke earlier, and I think it is commendable that the decision to draw up a state-level spatial plan is made in place of the Government and here, I also appeal to this occasion, and I have already prayed and writtenly and like this, to finally go into the development of the National Park Kornati's spatial plan, which is now in force and made in 2003, we know that there has been a lot of intervention in the area, and also new demands, here, recently I had a personal requirement for panels and new energy efficiency to be installed in one of the facilities in the Kornati, given that this spatial plan from 2003 did not foresee, there was no permit or obtaining assurance, and a potential investor had to give up. It is commendable that, as regards the Krka National Park, it is precisely in the design of a spatial plan. But here we see that instead of the county office, the ministry is going to issue acts to implement this spatial plan for interventions in the area of the national park, now I don't know if we're going to speed up the design of spatial plans, and then the permits slow down again, that time will show. Call for insight into the real estate for which a local permit is issued when it comes to more than 10 neighbours and that they will be called through a public call. I think it'll take quite a while to sum it up, it was, I don't know, some stone or tree to make a call like that, but, look, when it comes to, I don't know, building a tour of the town of Vodice, then people who came to their olive groves, fields, they saw something like that, they reported to each other, who they would look at or don't know, once a week, monthly, whether someone on the next particle would plan to build something, I'm afraid it would take a long time. And finally, I would like to commend the provision that the owner of the building land is obliged to transfer to a local self-government unit, owned by a part of the land designated for the construction of municipal infrastructure, because we all had a lot of problems in the municipality and cities, everyone wants a wide road, they want a connection to the water line, to the drain, etc., and very hard to give up one metre of square land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137202	You, too. You have one replica from Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137203	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I'm glad you mentioned the county and their activities in taking over the office of construction and construction permits. It should be said that the counties have done quality work, that there have been delays and that it is not fair to them that through the decentralisation of the business they have not decentralised and the funds because only the first year we received money from the state budget for the salaries of those persons working on these jobs, and that you have already had to continue from the original incomes, and we know that the counties are allowed to allocate up to 20% of the original incomes to salaries and then resort to hiring people for a certain time and mainly legal persons, for these salaries you could not get engineers, builders and architects and send a bad message to young people to hire them for a certain time. And I'm not afraid that by taking over the Office of State Administration business again, the same thing would happen, we'll take over people, and the county won't get the money, I don't think that's supposed to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137204	You, too. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137205	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vlaović, I agree with you that indeed our counties have taken over large and entirely all employees, have not received adequate funds, even cities and municipalities based on a municipal contribution when issuing permits to collect significant income, and our counties remain deprived. But here's one example of the town of Vodice, so I appeal to others on this occasion. The city of Vodice pays two employees in the Office for Spatial Editing of the County of Sibenik-Kninsko so that the two employees would exclusively work in the areas of the town of Vodice because we are interested in this in terms of the municipal contribution, later compensation, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137206	Let's move on. Mr. Josip Boric, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137207	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about these two laws because I think it was really necessary to do some steps in the Construction Act, but also in the spatial arrangement, and I think that, as they say in the Ministry, that this happened and I think it's possible to believe them when they say that we're going to be easier to come to the works needed for construction, because the simple fact is that we've been dealing with this problem for decades now, in which way we can come up with the conditions that we can start building the simplest object. And there we talked through many governments about it and then when we had a system in which the construction without acts almost reviled the entire coast i.e. Rebuilding a large part of the Croatian Adriatic, the island, the coast, when it has simply proved that people can reach a certain level of construction without such acts and that the question of what can be done to make it no longer happen? And indeed, the state reacted in 2010, 2011, and so each government first tried to solve the issue of illegal objects, and then made it clear that the objects were finally built in accordance with all the necessary standards and that we were acting in accordance with all the standards that apply in other countries and that building an object was not some sort of whim, something unorganized or just some kind of mere desire without anyone being asked anything, but simply that there were rules and that the rules had to be respected. When we talk about the Construction Act, we see that this law regulates the sorting of buildings in view of the need for construction on a more demanding basis towards a more demanding one. Clearly, then, the current classification, so it was according to demand, now I say according to certain regulations it would be much less demanding. Allowed detachment in construction only means with respect to an external construction measure of up to 0,30 m or 30 cm, except for the mandatory direction and minimum distance from the border and that is fine. We have a problem on the ground that acts are issued, and then it always happens that there are some more squares in the building, especially in popular Penthauses or at the last levels, attics and then we find problems all of us, from local self-government, to investors and the one who built the facility, but also the one who issued the acts. We have the creation of main and other projects in electronic form, and the reduction of its content and cost of production. The electronic form is much more suitable for the exchange and, of course, that within the collapsing of these documents it is clearer that we can do everything faster and that we do not need to copy something more into 10 about 20 copies to get some kind of building act and that should certainly be supported. The project will be completed as soon as it is officially and digitally signed. The obligation to release investors is an obligation to collect specific conditions and conditions of accession which are a condition for issuing a building permit. Now that's where we come up with the projector. What do we do in local self-government when the designer is working on 70 projects? It is a question of whether we will slow down and how much we will depend on his will and what he may or may do. We know that we have big project bureaus, we have small ones, we have all kinds of them, we don't, and that's something that can really slow us down if we're not involved, and I don't think that it might be the happiest solution, no matter what a major part of the job they've done, but local self-government is playing a little bit of control over the whole process and I'm saying, it's up to us to what he wants or how much he can do, and not all of us, at least from some of the experiences we see when we're talking about spatial planning and designing, that not all of us are at the highest level we expect for the money we pay and there's a problem. My experience with spatial planning to show up at a public tender to someone who's a little cheaper, of course, you have to choose him, etc., that if it happens and then we have problems that we can't develop a spatial plan properly for some year now, some people who plan within these houses are constantly changing, etc. And we have come to the conclusion that spatial plans have also become a means of political pressure. So, today, without a problem in a public debate, you can politically organise yourself, if you don't mind, I don't know, the chief or the minority or most of the council, quite anyway, that you can be organized with some kind of citizens and in some way exploit such a spatial plan, and then create pressure and all come under one influence, meaning, one mass of people, a large number of objections, or a man who runs an executive body or just a city or a community, or those who make it, we're simply in trouble. I think public debates must be, but we just have such a problem with public debates, at least I'm talking to myself, so it means that when you get 400, 500 objections to one debate and you can't meet even the basic conditions that you can say that you have a normal plan or that you want to plan something good. So how do you separate something that's politics from the real thing that is? So when we're dealing with ignorance, or someone's trying to convince you to sign something, so he writes you a text, so you sign it no matter how much you know or don't know, and then we come to the fact that the spatial plans are really working out the way they're doing. We have here in art. The 20th century 3. what is allowed means when we talk about the issue of a local and building permit. So, building a new building that has access to the traffic area and the possibility of connecting on the drain and in a space where there are no hopes. It's a provision that opens up the possibility of building everywhere if we have access and disposal, regardless of what's been drawn or marked in our spatial plan, I think it must be built at least, not built, not built if I understand it well, if it's still written, then we don't have to respect it. We don't have to wait for him, we can give permission, if I understand correctly. Is that it? It is. I think it'll only open space to those who are near the road and first in line to any road. First in line to the sea passing the road near the sea, first in line to the road passing by the settlement or somewhere outside the settlement and they join and they are issued building permits, everyone behind them becomes a problem. I think that provision should be reconsidered. I don't think it's easy for someone to say, I'm close to the road, I've got a drain, and I'm gonna get a license, this one behind it isn't close to the road, it's got a drain, it can't. It will be a problem where the spaces that are covered by the Hopes will only be built in the edges that cover existing roads. One more thing I'm interested in in in this other law on spatial planning, Art. 102. Preparation of reports, 30 days for a new plan, 15 for changes and additions. The preparation of reports from the public hearing has been arousing with, I often have these issues of my councilors, which is right there, so the preparation is being prepared and can take a year and two years and three years. So are we clear enough with this article until something has to be made? We did say that if in two years we don't have a public debate, a decision, you'll be out of force, we're going to start over, but if you make a decision and in the last part of another year you do something, so we're re-scheduling our spatial plans for 10 years. Do you understand what I mean? So maybe that's where they should be clearer, is this kind of a formulated article making a mistake. Preparation is something that can last, I say, a few months, a year, 10, 15 days, and it can take more and we can't say anything to anyone, especially the designer of the plan that's being drawn out and said, and we have time, no. So just maybe, here's what we should say for what, how much, so if they're not within that time limit, you can take responsibility for your friend because this is how we all do it. I know that sometimes we need to get along, but that doesn't mean that we've got the system right because we expect when we take someone and offer ourselves as a contractor or a plan maker that he's working with matter, that he knows what he's doing, and not that if something is given or not, that the local leader can just wait and think what's wrong or he hasn't done wrong, I mean, so maybe here's some less detail, I say, maybe we should define it more clearly, but all in all, I'm saying, this is certainly progress in the part as explained by the ministry and I personally support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137208	We don't have any replicas, Mr. Ante Pranic. Where is he? [[Intruder from the assembly: There it is, there it is]] The bogeyman's earlier? [[Buuk is before]] Excuse me. Mr. Bauk, if you'll excuse me, I've seen you, but I haven't seen you upstairs, my mistake. [[Intruder from the assembly: Arsen Bauk, is]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137209	You'll see me up there, down there, up there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137210	What, what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137211	He says I don't mind being up there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137212	But let's stop the time of this friendly debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137213	I don't want to, I don't need to, it doesn't take time, I won't be long.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137214	Then you can start, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137215	I can start. So I would have warned of 5 things that I think should be explained and that the proposings take care of it. So, first of all, it's about eliminating the fire protection lab, that's art. 69 and 70. So, it looks like some business, I'm going to use the term plowing to architects, that what's in that fire protection lab is being processed in myself, and I guess that's why there's a brand for fire and that's why architects don't want to do it because there are people who are trained to do it. I don't know what the MUP told you about this issue because this wasn't even on a public consultation. Second of all, it's about art. 81nd and 82nd, and that's a question of clarity on special terms. So, if I get it right, the law says that if the body isn't readable in 15 days that there are no special conditions, it's generally not even bad, but life situations can cause a completely different thing, which is that some body for objective reasons couldn't be seen for objective reasons, which doesn't mean that it doesn't exist, and then these people continue to work and then they come in for a technical examination, and they tell them so you don't, you can't get a license because you don't have special conditions. What I would also like to draw attention to is in Article 4 that in the simplest groups, in the simplest groups, not the building, but the building is a pool, because as it says now there are only buildings, and the pool is not a building but a building, so it would also be good to think about it. As far as the fourth thing is concerned, you should see what changed the geodetics in view of the suspension of the geodetic project and what may be most interesting does not exist after the entry into force of this Law for two more years, because these things take effect in two years, so tomorrow it won't be all in almost three clicks by the law, but for a while people will have to walk from the plumbing, the MUP, the sanitarys, and so on, and there, Mr. Vice President, my presentation would be completed in two minutes and forty seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137216	I haven't heard, but this aprioria agrees with you. Let's move on, Mr. Ante Pranic now really. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137217	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor. I know that the main reason for amending the Law on Construction is related to the policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which wants to improve the position on the working business scale by the end of the term of office, as well as in the Law on the municipal economy where municipal contributions have come to payment after now following the applicable authorisation where all cities and municipalities have been questioned by the implementation of public infrastructure to the facilities, where we now see that we have problems from the Law that was adopted for the similar concept last year. I therefore believe that this Law, which could perhaps speed up the intensity of building permits, can ultimately lead to the creation of investments that are more insecure to investors. I don't understand why a fire protection lab is being lifted from these smaller buildings and that one big responsibility is being transferred to the architects, when we all know what it means to the safety of the building. I also do not understand the legal institute under which the public-legal body has 15 days to be manifested at the request, otherwise it is considered a positive response for investors. We have one assumption that, for the purposes of one investment, special conditions should be put in place and confirmation of the main project by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, fire protection inspections, where the regulated public-legal body delivers the conditions to the designers, the projectors of the main project of public-legal authorities at the confirmation, the certificate is not issued within the legal time limit of 15 days, it is considered that everything is harmonised and what is later?, we come to the applicable permission where public-law authorities are called, a public-law body which has not delivered, or which is not a word delivered within a legal period of 15 days, is considered to be positive, but we see that at the stage of the process of carrying out the building itself is not all in line with the regulations itself. And regardless of what we have told the investor, let's say, we have made it easier to issue construction permits, building permits, we see that the investor is later on on a useful permit, and not only that, but that investment, this building is also subject to the inspection of the competent inspectors, where at any moment, all the irregularities that have occurred in the construction processes, but when the facility has been built with multimillion investments or smaller investments, can endanger its own use. As for public-legal bodies and these 15 days, look it can happen in the process of implementing spatial plans of units of local self-government, regionally, primarily units of local self-government, that public-law authorities deliver their observations beyond the legal deadline and bring us really into major problems, mayors and mayors, without talking about other things about environmental impact studies. This is actually the result of the work of the public administration of Croatia, which according to all parameters, world parameters is at the beginning of the country of the world. And if we, if we are thinking of doing a business scale, would increase or be more competitive, our public administration should generally be significantly more competitive, especially those public-legal bodies that participate in both delivery and conditions, as well as delivering certificates to the main projects. Such an intensification that, by means of a legal instrument under which a public-legal body does not deliver its opinion within 15 days, it is positive for investors, it will make you a really big problem when the use of the permits and the use of the building itself, the same way as you have now created a problem for all cities and municipalities by amending the Construction Act, where we now see that the municipalities and towns with small fiscal capacity come into major difficulties, where we are forced to build investments of millions to production-specific plants, and we do not have income from a municipal contribution and before the use of the permit becomes legal. It means only because of such articles in the Law on the Community Economy where we have referred, you have also had an objection from the Association of Cities and the Association of Municipalities, today everything that we have announced is happening in reality, and I also believe that in these provisions regarding this 15-day legal institute and the applicable permit, we are not talking about fire protection embodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137218	Thank you, too. We have 3 replicas, or you have 3 replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137219	Thank you, Vice President. I'll only ask you one question. The truth that it is necessary to seek out public, public-law conditions and they.../incomprehensible/... projector then designs it, but there is one thing that the public-law body has already issued public-law terms, the designer designs a project in accordance with its terms, again seeks to issue a certificate on the main project. You think it's right, and is that even necessary?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137220	Answer. Here you go, Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137221	So look if I think it can be simplified, first of all this sphere where they're called again and on the applicable license, again. But let's try to fine certain public authorities where it could be easy for officials who don't do their jobs specifically in certain public authorities, and not by the system that literally, you know that public authorities are being dealt with in practice, that individual mayors and mayors and private investment and for public investments and we get a phone so we call by service and we ask literally to deliver to us either the conditions or the confirmations either for our citizens, whether for entrepreneurs or for our own institutions. That's what's happening in Croatia right now. And finally, it comes out of the legal deadline but you're still afraid of these useful permits so that you don't accidentally leave out the public body, which means a multimillion-dollar investment that you've built that can't get a useful license.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137222	Mr. Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137223	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Pranic, here is only one question since you mentioned both the ranking lists and the Duing business, and how we stand as Croatia on all of this, the government and the ministry claim that this law will speed up, facilitate the upcoming of the permits, and so we will become a little more attractive about investor investment. We know that there is a zone in Vrgorec and it is spreading, that some new investors have come, in your opinion, this law. Are these two laws going to help, will Vrgoračka zone become more attractive to investors or will it remain the same? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137224	Answer Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137225	Look, as far as the economic zones and Croatia are concerned, we need to be aware that 40% of Croatia's Natura 2000, means whoever did this and blocked Croatia permanently on investment and Dalmatian burns and the mountain cotter issue and like and part of the Zagorje flats and parts, the moment this reformation means that the Natura 2000 then my entrepreneur from the economic zone will not wage a war with the Ministry of Environmental Protection for a year to prove that his investment does not threaten the birds' flight to 30, at a height of 10 meters from the hall. This is the cancer of the wounds of all economic zones in our area and why the Dalmatian Zagora is generally on the subject of these investments. As far as this law is concerned, I've told you, construction permits will probably go faster, but the question of what will happen to administrative permits, first of all, in this part of the public bodies that are not being seen, and later on, I can also mess with you on the applicable permits.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137226	And Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137227	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Pranic, I agree with you that the adoption of these two laws in an emergency procedure with the aim of improving Croatia's competitiveness in attracting investment and facilitating the issue of building permits is not good because it can produce legal uncertainty. And we can't allow these laws to go into emergency procedures and not be communicated enough, but we can see that there are a lot of objections from the field itself, because they will certainly be changed tomorrow. That is exactly what investors told us that we have too many laws, that we change them too often and that they do not apply consistently in all units of local and regional self-government equally. This must not happen, and I think these details that you mentioned should be arranged more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137228	Thank you too, let's move on, and excuse me yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137229	I absolutely agree with you, colleague Vlaovic. We have current laws because there is a situation where an investor comes, buys land, starts designing, from the moment of purchase of land to the moment of use of the permit, half of the law is changed, resulting in individual public authorities being subject to conditions or certain designs or only, the construction processes themselves. That's the uncertainty, it's instability, and as far as the reform shift is concerned, I've been here long ago in the parliamentary benches when the State Property Act or proposed one reform, and that's all it's got to do with '91. When the Law on Agricultural Land was that simple these are now said 10% of Croatia's territory to leave the units of local self-government and that in such a way we create, decentralize functions, that we create our own development strategies in our territories, not that by 3.4 squares they must re-draw subordinated to the ministry, and someone for sleeve and prayer to speed up your process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137230	Let's move on. The next individual debate belongs to Mrs Grozdani Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues have already said a lot, but here is the need and I say a few words about these two laws. In 2018, over 9,000 almost 10,000 permits were actually issued, which is almost identical compared to 2017, but they are worth much higher compared to the previous year almost 10%. When we compare this with the data that we have all received from the Chamber of Commerce, then it is seen that the construction activity and the volume of construction works has increased by about 5%, which really gives very high hopes and optimism that our economy is developing better and better quality, that employment is growing. When we compare it to the data that in, according to the types of construction, it's over 83% collective construction, so building apartments and everything else is buildings, much less. Then we're actually asking what's up with the little private-house investors, they're probably added to these other buildings. In fact, it should also be motivated by all these changes that each of us citizens has a need and applies the law in a way that really requires certain documents and building permits and not that some kind of illegal construction is happening again because again, over time, it will have to be regulated all together. When I compare it to my county then I see that there are over 1800 apartments issued a building permit and it's a large, very many apartments, so it's almost 160 thousand square meters built in our area. I will refer here now to several articles and I hold that amendments to the law are really necessary to improve and enable investors to get faster, to take out all documents for construction, and what is significant to mention is this article, among other things, Article 79. The law on spatial planning. He had already talked about the fact that this article enables the construction permit to be accelerated for those buildings where it actually happened, where the reconstruction is going on or where the new building is being built and the building where it has access to the traffic area is actually being accelerated because, in the absence of, for example, certain specific conditions in the previous law have been disabled by the issue of a building permit because the urban planning at the time did not foresee this. So I think it's good no matter what it might be with it it's gonna be damaged by someone in the second row, third and the rest, but unfairly here were those investors really cut off in that case. Similarly, when we talk about Article 136, which is amended in the Law on Spatial Planning, I must say that this is also the case in view of the deadlines for publication, i.e. within which time the administrative authority or the ministry shall require public legal authorities to be able to join or determine specific conditions. It is also within which time-limit it is mandatory to issue that public legal authority its terms and conditions. That's good, however, what I know from the field I think some colleagues have already mentioned, in fact, how public legal authorities are prepared to issue it within that time limit. I have an example, here's an example. In the process, however, the HEP, which would give consent to the issue of the permit, happened to be unable to connect the investor who made the huge investment and the building to electricity after the use of the permission. So this is all good, but I think that we must also work on creating a prerequisite that these public legal bodies really adapt in time and engage in all these changes in order for this procedure to really go gradually, so that it happens in as short a time as possible and that we do not then come into situations that maybe because of that speed of an investor we damage which is certainly not the intensity of this law, but that it really happens within as short a time as possible. It is also very important and it is now seen from all these discussions that all the laws that are connected and that is the Law on the municipal economy, so how to finance all of the local units of access and all of what needs to be made possible by the local self-government unit to connect to the infrastructure that is also very important and that we must take into account all of this uniformity in the adoption of all these laws and make sure that this implies the fiscal capacities of cities and municipalities themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137232	Mr. Kleman was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137233	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Peric, you have now mentioned the Croatian electricity industry, yes, I agree with you that there should be much more careful because investors are very exposed to costs. I'm a bet, but I'd like to hear your comment, too, so that all confirmations of public authorities in the process should be free or just like that, pay taxes. Because we're coming into a situation right now with HEP that they're looking for money for 20% of the start of the investment to give consent to issue, to give consent to the project, so they pay first. Now imagine, that the project of about 2 million kunas, 20%, 400 thousand kunas should be paid first to HEP in order to issue you this consent, because they have to do a project for energy cables etc. That puts investors in trouble right now, why? Because credit is just a building permit, and very often the cost of a building permit is right on loan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137234	Thank you, too. Would you like to respond? Here you go, Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137235	Yes, it's true, what you said and thinks there should be a lot more coordination between the public legal entities themselves with the units of local self-government, and also see a way to make it easier for investors to actually get the permits before someone launching such a cost because it's certainly a big problem, because then we don't know what it is before, he gave a chicken or an egg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137236	Thank you. Next individual debate Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about investments, about the Construction Act, about how difficult it is to do business in the Republic of Croatia, it is enough to look at some indicators that will essentially show you where the problem lies and why Croatia is growing year after year as far as investment is concerned, as far as foreign specific investments are concerned, why people bypass our country. One such indicator is the Duing Business Board, where Croatia has submerged 17, 18 places in just a few years and is currently located in 58 places. In just one, she went down from 51 to 58 last year. We have been overtaken by all our neighbours, not to speak, and in the region we are not among the better, when we speak and easter than us, so Macedonia, Serbia, there are progressing from year to year, unfortunately Croatia is going in the exact opposite direction. One of these indicators is an indicator of the issue of construction permits, i.e. the possibility for people in Croatia to invest, which in one year collapsed from 126 places to 159 places. So, all over the world, Croatia, in the countries that are ranked, as regards the issue of building permits, is an investment opportunity of 159. And then it can be clearly concluded from that that something is not working with our legislation, but also unfortunately with those who should implement this legislation. As for the debate itself and the speed and the desire to speed things up and fix things, clearly we are all interested in making this debate as fast as possible and as efficient as possible, but sometimes to speed up and not to conduct a quality debate in the Croatian Parliament, it is not good. It is not good, under the cover of solving certain problems as quickly as possible, although we are all aware here in the Croatian Parliament, that we are not going to solve it, but now in the debate itself, including the representatives who wish to support the law, talk about many objections to laws they are not satisfied with and say that this proposal should be changed now. And then questions arise, which is why the legislator did not, or not the legislator, but the legislator, give the legislator the opportunity to manifest itself through one, two debates, or not through one, two, but through two discussions in order to better prepare the amendments, or the possibility to change certain things in the laws. While we are lagging behind in the area of construction, i.e. investment, for EU countries, colleagues have just talked about it, in some areas, the standards we set are far lower than the EU countries. Someone just mentioned the base stations, i.e. putting them at certain location of the telecommunications service stations, that this is done in one of the loosest European procedures. I agree with that. This should be taken into account to comply with certain rules and standards, let's say in the City of Zagreb, base stations should have certain permits and set themselves up a way to be within a set, around buildings, at the highest point, and even 50 meters on the pillar, so that they may not endanger the health of our fellow citizens and to set standards that are normal in the EU everywhere, except for the Republic of Croatia, where the retailes are allowed, to put base stations where the property is solved, and where someone tells you to put a base station, pay me a rent, I have a case in my street, where it is about the person who rented her entire house so that the base station on it is set up. And of course people are upset in the environment, although they need to be aware and realistic and say if we want certain services and opportunities to use them, it's impossible to avoid such technology. But why wouldn't they set certain standards? Why wouldn't we do that if our citizens felt safer? And why wouldn't tomorrow be us who have such models and standards related to telecommunications services, why wouldn't it be us in the City of Zagreb or Croatia who have the most consideration, which is good for the health of our citizens, and what probably isn't? Even though we won't be completely safe for many years, how much this technology affects the health of our people. So, I'd like those things to be dealt with and processed by law, I'd like to have certain standards that go one step ahead of the EU. I would also like Croatia to finally improve its place on the working business scale as regards the construction itself without changing things in the law and not speeding things up that are important for the safety of our citizens. Let's say, as we heard in the debate, the elimination of fire protection embodies, that is, the deadline in which this must be defined. Otherwise, it is thought that the matter is finished, or accepted. I think it's dangerous for a body to be taken for 15 days and unless it's shown under special conditions to take the situation for granted. So we need to enable in a certain situation that our citizens have absolutely safe construction and a secure situation related to fires from possible emergency situations that occur next to buildings. In tourism too, we must also take care of how our fellow citizens can fertilise their tourist facilities as easily as possible. I'm talking about swimming pools that, which I think would be in the interest of an additional offer that can be built as easily as possible and that people can define the permits needed to build a pool because it happens quite often in practice that people have to solve for a few months, and even sometimes even a year to solve the most basic papers to build there, this additional content that would then allow them to eventually make extra income on their tourist property, i.e. apartment or home. So once again, let me recapitulate it, it's about having to keep up with the laws that we're making, that these laws don't come down to the speedy conclusion that probably MPs will agree here and there will be some support from opposition lines of amendments to these laws, but that when we're changing the laws to make a comprehensive change, that is, a reform that would allow tomorrow or a year from now on, we see direct progress of the Republic rather than a decline that is year after year. Even though the return is also in terms of investment or construction, and we almost have no master in the Republic of Croatia, because the salary policy and tax press promoted by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic led people to leave Croatia, to find 200, 300km further work for twice the amount of money or three times as much money as to stay in Croatia and work here. So we've almost destroyed the construction sector as far as people and personnel are concerned, and that's the kind of incompetence and not taking care of how to help in situations, or how to help in situations of entrepreneurs, or employees in that sector, so that they can have less costs, that they can make people pay more because surely people wouldn't have any problem with having a small tax burden to raise their salaries. We need to be aware that in the Republic of Croatia there will be no bread in the building and there will be no people who are worse until the salaries are at least doubled. That should be considered, and unfortunately, our government is taking very little care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137238	The first line has Mr. Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137239	Thank you, Vice President. A fellow Maras, one small, just a little correction when it comes to building a pool. I know very well that there is no need for a construction permit anywhere in Croatia to build a swimming pool in Croatia, but it is a simple building that is allowed for anyone to build it in their own backyard or nearby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137240	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137241	Thank you very much. Mr. Lonchar, in your debate you yourself have said certain facts and that is that you are not satisfied with certain solutions in the law. In my own discussion, I was talking about that it would be good for the laws to come to the Croatian Parliament comprehensively prepared or to enable quality laws without them being high enough today in the Republic of Croatia to speak this fact itself just before I mentioned it and that is that in one year we have lost more than 36 places on a working business scale in the area of construction. So that tells you enough how many of our people in the government, or how much the Government of Andrej Plenkovic is able to improve the situation relating to the construction itself, or to these laws that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137242	Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137243	Well, fellow Maras, you said construction was destroyed among other things. Do you know that in the last 3 years construction has just seen growth and now in 2018 it has had the highest level it has not had since 2008. Construction is also one of those activities that has led to improving the country's macroeconomic situation and GDP growth and increasing employment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137244	Mr. Maras, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137245	Thank you very much. We need to see exactly what we're talking about. So you should also see who works, what employees we have, where our companies work. So in the Republic of Croatia very few of our companies, here we are talking about the Peljesk Bridge, go, look who's working on the Peljesk Bridge. Our companies unfortunately do not have a job in Croatia, that is, most of the things that these trends you are talking about are making our export companies come true. These are our largest construction companies. On the other hand, I would like the Croatian government to create conditions that our companies in Croatia can hire people and create quality wages for them to work. Take a look around you and you will see that there are not too many investments in Croatia, except for these few that are currently taking place in Europe, for which we prepared the situation, we even 3-4 years ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137246	Mr. Vlaovic at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137247	Thank you, colleague Maras. We agree with you and us at HSS that these two laws should have gone into regular procedure, that they are well-communicated with both professional and interested public, because we see that there are a number of objections to them. If we agree, we need to increase the way in which to attract investment in Croatia, but there is no investment, there are no reasons why it is a huge mistrust of entrepreneurs and because of frequent changes in laws, but surely the state does not do enough to employ domestic capacities. Here, for example, was the first start of this year, a competition for energy restoration of residential homes. Now the information is that it will not be in the first half of this year, and we know that these jobs have just been done by our domestic craftsmen and entrepreneurs, planning some of their employment, therefore, and now there will be no such competitions. In this way, investment is not accepted and does not support the construction sector in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137248	Answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137249	Thank you very much. The biggest problem is Mr. Vlaovic that the Croatian government is unable to create competitors of the conditions for people to increase wages. So tax burdens, operating costs, inconclusion in many segments, the most red tape and the burden of red tape, leads to people in Croatia, regardless of their prices, not much lower than in some other European countries, that money is not targeted at wages, but is targeted at the cost of the state. Because HDZ is obviously in the interest that as many people go to Ireland, Germany, Austria, and then it is normal to keep less employees in the real sector and they need to feed more people who work in the administration. And it's normal that wages can't be increased. Until we do that, there's no luck in the building, or there's no possibility that our construction sector can be improved and we can move from this 159 place we're in right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137250	Thank you very much, thank you. Now we have the final word of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137251	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial in Orders, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing's started with us and nothing's going to end with us. When it comes to the Law on Spatial Planning and the Law on Construction, you can only see that we have been struggling there with these two laws since we have the Croatian state, which is not sensitive. As first of all, it's different at all, but I've studied and studied at one time, when property wasn't really important, when you were dealing with spatial planning, you got space and you didn't keep track, whose country is below and over whose land the road will go, and whose land public procurement will go through, but you saw that it looks nice and it'll be functional. There since '92, 3, 4, 5 things have changed, because not only in the phase of the lesson building permits you asked whose property you owned, but also in the plans and then it turned out that all of this had to change together. I remember there in '95. in the year when around 150 detailed arrangements, which the City of Zagreb had in place, were once put out. Which actually resulted in a disturbance in the space, and the result was so-called. Location urbanism. All of this has happened to us through history. I remember back in '86. Mr. when we first introduced special conditions and when no one knew what special conditions were still the difference between what fires determine, those who deal with the protection of monuments of culture, plumbing, sewers, etc. And I often have a feeling, like that cat that hunts for its own tail, that we in this problem of spatial order and the problem of building are hunting for our own tail and going back to something we've already had. When it comes to special terms, we've been through everything. They were looking for investors themselves, so they were looking for projectors for investors, so they were out in the office, so they combined both, and now we have this variant. For some things, you have to be ready. I'll repeat the sentence I said in an individual debate. I have a feeling and not that I have a feeling, but also, you know, we're in the stage of a carriage towards the car, so we're going from the carriage to the car, and we'd be driving not only the plane but the spaceship. So, this proposal that's in the Construction Act, about the e-authority, it's actually a big step, it's a good story, but for that we have to be prepared. For this not only do you have to, look at that provision, which says it will apply 2 years after the entry into force of this law, or, when the Ministry is ready with everyone else, or, if it does not, it will continue to be issued in analog form. First of all, there is still no difference between the conditions of accession and the special conditions. It's still not until the end of the field, for the record, what the conditions are attached, which are special conditions. That's what I want to say next. I understand colleagues who have decided to go with the Duing Business scale to go with this one change of law and show the step that Croatia is doing. In order to be correct to the end, we should say that the biggest leap on the Duing Business scale, related to building permits, was made the moment we passed the law. The law entered into force in 1.1.2014 and the de facto e-authority began to function slowly in 2015 because it had not been able to do so before. So, some things in life take time to make this work too, it takes time, you have to have well-assembled platforms, all the offices have to be ready for it, you have to have a good education of people, people have to be willing to work like that, because still colleagues who issue local and construction permits most like to watch what they don't really need to watch. They should look at compliance with the document of spatial arrangement, i.e. with the spatial plan and whether everything else is available. So these are things that have to change, some things you can't skip and some things you can't change the way it's not simple, it just has to be mature. What he definitely has to lead about next. It must be kept in mind that you cannot avoid quality public debates related to spatial plans and should be insisted on this, indeed allow the permits to be issued as soon as possible and the construction inspection problem remains. When you strongly liberalize the conditions and the way then you have a problem building inspection and it will certainly be because all of this is a result of increased construction and increased illegal construction and task should be to prevent all of us from further illegal construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137252	Thank you very much, thank you. Now finally again, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Mr Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137253	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor's Secretary of State, Here, finally, on behalf of the club, I will say that it is my pleasure that, on the basis of that debate that I presented this morning on behalf of the club, together with representatives of the Croatian People's Party Club, we have agreed on amendments that will just be on the trail of what I said, which is why we are inclined to maintain the provision under which the hierarchy of validity and decision-making in spatial planning documentation was established in a way that the plans of the higher order are clearly commanded by the plans of the lower order on the one hand. On the other hand, we remain at the point of view of the need to make UPU except in the part in which it was previously prescribed and which I think is justified and in that part I really have no objection whatsoever. What I would now conclude at the end and what I did not say this morning, introducely on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, that it would be a good idea for the Ministry to take the next amendments to these laws or to make a whole new law to make further progress towards speeding up the issue of conditions, or conditions of building or issuing building acts that, regardless of the type of construction, we return to one administrative procedure. When I started the work in 1982 there were conditions of editing space, the conditions of editing space were not an administrative act, through the conditions of editing the space was given a clear signal to the designer which must be done through the construction of the project itself. There were no location permits, no location permits, whether they wanted it or not, it was an important document at one point, defined the behaviour in the space. But today, when we look at the fact that if there is a building permit for which the administrative procedure is conducted, we do not need another administrative procedure because through the same procedure we call on the same parties, the same parties are manifest. I think the time has come and it's not heresy in this profession to try to think about going back to one administrative procedure and we've further accelerated the procedure itself. And in conclusion, I will say another proposal if we discuss this, namely, today we are talking about the importance of investing and the speed of passing documents for self-investment. I believe that the ministry should really consider, in cooperation with the State Geodetic Authority, that we can prescribe the possibility for an investor who invests in the Republic of Croatia, regardless of whether he is a host or a foreign investor, regardless of who the investor is, to allow for the purposes of the use of the licence, for example, for the purposes of the land book, to enable such legislation to be formed on his building particle consisting of a particle that is in the private ownership regime, for example in the second part, and for the same particles that, for example, in the construction rights regime, can form a single building plot on which he will later be able to obtain a useful permit, enrolment in the land book and facilitate its operation through registration in the land book and through the establishment of documents and which is very important also because of credit borrowing. So it would be a good idea to design such a procedure that will allow an investor who is building his investment, whether it's a tourist resort, whether an industrial facility, any object of social purpose or any other purpose, to be able on the particles of a different ownership regime where it's private, on the other hand, concessions or the right to build, I don't know, or any other variant, to form a single particle regardless of what exists in a different ownership regime so that he can then go through the procedure of entering the applicable permit. This may not be a single particle, but later in the treatment of an administrative permit, in the treatment followed by a building permit to facilitate the implementation of the project itself. I believe that, therefore, in this new law, we could further speed up investment in Croatia by saying one administrative procedure on the one hand and on the other hand solving cases that will be more and more in Croatia, given that we, above all, have tried to adapt the Law on Property and other real rights as easy as possible to invest in Croatia. So in conclusion, we at the club will support this law on spatial regulation, i.e. amendments to the law on construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137254	And finally, Mr. Milorad Batinic will speak in front of the HNS Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137255	Thank you, Vice President, State Secretary, State Secretary, Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. We at the HNS are pleased that this law has received support, not only here, I expect support in the Assembly, but also received support from the professional public. In this law there are no ideological topics, ideologies that may divide one or the other side of the Parliament, this law is in any case an improvement for development in the whole of the Republic of Croatia. So the law, amendments and additions to spatial planning, the spatial arrangement of the Construction Act is the goal of making improvements that went through the emergency procedure known for which reason I believe that there is still a reasonable time, and the ministry is working to make certain things better. In fact, every time there is a new challenge, every law that comes into force shows that certain improvements should be made, so I believe that, given the new circumstances and that investment cycle that is expected, because Croatia has come out of an unfavourable credit rating, it will also have to correct certain things, especially in part of the spatial planning of construction, but also as regards land books where the most obvious problems are most obviously the most obvious. What I would also like to say is what these kinds of laws that are more technical in nature see as being also amendments that are being passed, that they are practically identical in the part that are being proposed, and with a fundamental goal of improving existing laws. The fact is that certain things can't be resolved entirely or fully by the investors themselves, just yet order in the space that exists, which must be, and I'm glad that we've managed to agree to certain points that were obviously controversial, and that's precisely the level of the planning documents. The fact is that existing laws always need to be developed and the fact is that practice has shown perhaps the excess of pre-literate planning in certain parts. This has just shown a new law and amendments and additions to the law, and in particular it has shown practice. The fact is that so far there have been major problems with the adoption of plans of municipalities and cities in relation to harmonisation or compliance with higher order plans, i.e. county plans, but we must not ignore the basic, basic postulate that we must conduct, which is a higher order plan that must be respected. I believe that this adoption of these amendments and the addition of the law will follow a series of activities at local, regional level, harmonising those that are not yet their own spatial, spatial planning documents precisely for the reason that both local and regional, but primarily local, where it moves into the largest investments, is precisely that this investment momentum currently exists to be further accelerated. And I repeat, the HNS Club will support these proposals of the Law and spatial planning and the same as the Construction Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137256	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137257	We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 623. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments have been submitted by the Club of Labour Representatives and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, the Croatian People's Party Representatives Club and the Liberal Democrats and the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to take note of the amendments submitted, respectable State Secretary at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, Daniel Meštric. First of all, the amendment of Rada's Club of Representatives and the solidarity of Independent Representatives Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137258	The amendment to the amendment of Article 7 is not accepted because it would allow the development of spatial plans of the local level by the City of Zagreb Institute in the area of other units of local self-government to be colluded with the determination to make these plans on the market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137259	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of Rechim Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137260	Thank you very much, Vice President, I'm really not deaf, but you hear very little, keep your head down and I don't hear what you've actually said, is the amendment being accepted with changes or not not accepted [[Intruder: No.]] and look we have actually tried to make this amendment what should actually be an ambitious goal and the Republic of Croatia regarding decarbonisation, energy supply and the reduction of final energy consumption. [[Intruder: No.]] This is also in line with the EU Directives, and will be particularly in line with the EU policies and the new financial framework 2021, 2027, and I think you will need to amend and supplement this Directive when this Directive comes into force. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137261	Amendment No. 2nd of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137262	Amendment No. 2. in addition to Article 2. 20a is not accepted because it is contrary to the basic principle of the law under which the conditions for the implementation of the procedure in place are determined by the spatial plans adopted by the representative bodies after the public debate has been carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137263	In the name of the club, the esteemed representative of the Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137264	Dear Vice President HS, thank you. I think we've given a fat explanation for this amendment, I have no intention of reading it because it's very clear and very specific, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137265	We will now go to the amendments to the HNS and Liberal Democrats' Club of Representatives, First Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137266	Amendment for erasure of art. 17 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137267	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No. 2nd of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137268	Amendment to the Amending Article. 20 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137269	It becomes an integral part of the law. And Amendment No. 3rd of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137270	Amendment for erasure of art. 28 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137271	It becomes an integral part of the law. The following amendments are to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, first of all Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137272	Amendment for erasure of art. 21 is not accepted because the proposed amendment is contrary to the objective of the law, as well as to speed up the process of drawing up and adopting spatial plans.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137273	There's no one from the club, so we're gonna have to vote on that. Amendment No. 2nd of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137274	The amendment of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is identical to the HNS Liberal Democrats and HDZ Club, which we have already accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137275	So you accept that amendment or you don't accept it? He's already accepted, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137276	He's already accepted, that's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137277	Okay, now that we've finished discussing the amendments, we'll continue with individual debates on the previous point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137278	Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.34 HOURS]] The first item on which we vote is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 623. Here's my colleague, Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137279	Mr. President, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party of Independent Representatives, please pause for ten minutes for the club to be able to consult on the vote on points one and two.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137280	Okay. Anybody else want a break? Stand by 18.45 hours. Session interrupted at 18.36 hours. Dear colleagues and colleagues will now continue to work, as I said the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 623. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 18.45 HOURS]] The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, GLAS and HSU, the Croatian National Party Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats and the HDZ Representatives' Club. We held a statement on the amendments at the session, and now we will vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. The first amendment is the Club of Labour Party Representatives and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, not accepted by the government. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. The second amendment of the same club is not accepted by the government. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. We are going to the amendment of the Croatian People's Party Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats and the HDZ Club. Amendment number 1 was adopted, Amendment number 2 was accepted and Amendment number 3 was accepted and became an integral part of the law. Now we're going to the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club, Amendment number one, does not accept the government, so please vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And we're going to the second amendment of the same club of MPs, he's actually already accepted because he's the same as Amendment number three. HNS and HDZ accepted, so we don't need to vote on it. Now we're going to the vote. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes 70 for, 13 abstentions and 1 vote against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Spatial Planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137479	In accordance with Article 247. I propose to the Rules of Procedure that in the following two points we conduct a united, united discussion, these are: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 599 and - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z. Number 600 Do you agree with this proposal? Any objections? There isn't. Let's move on. So the proposer of these laws, these final draft laws, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions relating to the second reading of the law apply, of course. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Would Justice Minister Drazen Bosnjak want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137480	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, it is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society and the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. So both laws have not experienced any significant changes compared to first reading and we stay with all those settings that we defended here in the first reading, we stay with all those allegations. These amendments to the laws will allow faster establishment of companies, so we introduce an on-line establishment of a limited-responsibility society and a simple limited-responsibility society. These companies are in fact particularly companies with limited liability is the most registered in the Republic of Croatia and in this way we will come to the position of entrepreneurs, those future entrepreneurs who want to register a company, we will allow them to not go this way to many counter places, not to go to other institutions where they have to do these things, they will be able to do it from their office, they will be able to do it from the comfort of their home, and in this way we will make the procedure faster, to make the procedure cheaper and to introduce into the law certain changes that are welcome. First of all, we all have that subject of business that in the current system was one of these very difficult I would say the question, where people would not go through 2 or 3 times the same story registered as the subject of business a whole series of activities they considered to be in principle, so if one day I'm going to deal with it, I don't have to change all those acts and I don't have to go through the administrative story, but I don't have to go through the costs that it carries with me. We now conduct business activities as records, it will not be an integral part of a social contract or a statement of establishment, but will be kept by the Commercial Court in a separate record. And if someone deals with activity A wants to further complement and deal with activity B it will be possible in one quick, so to speak, the process in one way easier way to achieve this. And we're also going to have to book the name that's the whole procedure today that hasn't been used twice with this line by setting up, so when we fill out the application in this way, we're going to be blocked until we find a name that hasn't actually been used. And here's how we're going to skip all that stuff that required, making a reservation proposal, deciding on that proposal, a whole little procedure that is unnecessary. We're going to make it a little easier on the core capital. In this law we say that it is necessary when establishing, therefore, to pay at least one of our own roles, which is nevertheless that threshold of £20.00 which is minimum, means, capital capital, we lower it to 5.00, so that it is something easier though the underlying capital is a category if someone wants to deal with some business, that 20.000,00 kn on the company's account is in favour of the company, so no one can take it away from anyone. But here it turns out in many communications that they said it was a problem, and here we are now solving that problem as well. It's also a simple limited-responsibility society that will be able to establish, today it's a maximum of 3 people, now we're going to expand it to 5 people. So we will also introduce electronic communication with the court register. So, both public notebooks and lawyers and HGK, they will also be linked by electronic connections and electronic with the trade court. All say companies are still well founded today, it doesn't take some time, but the problem is actually getting out of the business world, so the process of eradicating society, the process of liquidation that these are more complex. It is clear that, to a certain extent, it is necessary to regulate society when it is established, it has no separation from the establishment of a particular obligation it has, but the company that has worked and which it wants to come out of, of course, it must regulate before eradicating, all those obligations that have actually arisen in that business. We are introducing here a faster exit for those companies that have no obligations, where the founder will tell me, my company where I am the founder, has no obligation, but with his personal property guaranteeing two years after the establishment of this society. A lot of people will say, there's a way to get to that and stuff like that. But it's not exactly like that, all of the things where someone wants to get around it or this way some kind of fraud, they're actually subject to criminal responsibility, and there, I think our legislation is pretty clean. We also transfer this draft amending and supplement law to the legal system and provisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to encouraging the long-term participation of shareholders where we put the reception of board members and supervisory board under some kind of supervision of the congregations of stakeholders, companies with limited responsibility, and in some ways it is more transparent, as well as transparency for business between related persons. As for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register, it is important to say that this system of establishing on-line, it is part of a project start where we want to design with the Ministry of Economy a system into entering the world of work, business. It is not in itself the establishment of a company. The establishment of a company is only a first step towards obtaining legal entity, and then a whole series of steps follows to make this company a real shareholder in the business itself. Now, here we will actually, therefore, have the opportunity to get on the line and apply to the State Office for Statistics and apply to HZZO, to the HZMO, the competent tax administration, which will actually enable one speed and that the entrepreneur, who wants to do business, does not have to go from the counter to the counter, but that all this can be done on the line. We are also reducing, therefore, and the time needed to make a solution, here the 15-day deadline in which the competent court must adopt a solution, we reduce to 5 days, and here, about that, these are the most important changes that this system is making, I think that this is a good step, that we will make it easier to enter into the world of work, and especially here these laws are being referred, meaning, for, in connection with the establishment of a company, a society with limited responsibility and a simple society with limited responsibility. Thank you very much. I suggest that after we discuss this amendment to the law, we support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137481	The first replica was sought by Mr. Ante Babic, Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137482	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, State Secretary, Assistant, just one question, the first thing to praise the system of digitization for going in this direction about the establishment of societies, which we avoid all these obstacles, public notebooks and other administrations. And I'm interested in this particular application that the ministry has designed, that's the application start, whether it will ultimately be connected or part of the system of e-citizens or just an application for itself. Will it be easier if it is part of the E-Citizens' system to pull that data with it or will it be easier for itself, and will it subsequently connect to other systems? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137483	Would you like to answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137484	Thank you, very briefly. It'll be about the E-Citizen system. So we already have a whole series of possibilities in the system of e-citizens, we just don't actually use them, but in this system of e-citizens, this system is going to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137485	Mr. Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137486	Mr. Minister, you yourself said that under these amendments and the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register, it would be very simple, very quick to open the company. However, there is something that in everyday life creates a problem, which is that you have to ask for certain permits in the Office for Economy, if you are in the criminal record, this whole procedure takes 20, 30 days and practically all of this that will be achieved positively with this law, in these next steps so that the company can start to function is lost. The second thing, a quick opening of companies, unfortunately, led us there from 2005 and 2006 led us to that, a lot of companies are open that their owners were taxpayers and unfortunately, they are now among the blocked companies in Croatia. So we have to be extremely careful here. that those who do not have fulfilled obligations [[Intruder: Thank you.]] I can't... [[Thank you very much.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137487	You want to answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137488	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative, there are these two certificates regarding criminal records and possible burdens of criminal proceedings. One is where a man can get himself in a competent court to confirm that he is not being prosecuted, and the other where an interested competent institution asks the Ministry of Justice to issue a confirmation whether someone who applies to him is in a place or something like that, whether he is listed in a criminal record. I allow this procedure to be long, we'll evaluate it, there don't need any legal changes if the procedure goes slowly, we'll do everything we can to make it quick. This I agree with you, we've had in history, you know, a lot of people started companies just to find me, maybe in the future I'll do something, and here I really need to take care of, there's this statement where under criminal and material and other responsibility guarantees that there are no of these things that you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137489	Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137490	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the legal changes of this type can be supported, but what I'm interested in, unfortunately, is the fact that in 2 years, we lost at the ease of business in the Republic of Croatia 15 seats. So, only in the last year of 2017/2018. It's about 7.8 places, so from 51st to 59th we fell on the Doing Business ranking. What makes you think that's what makes you the main cause? So you're proposing here certain changes that should make business easier in the Republic of Croatia, which happens exactly the opposite. With all your suggestions, unfortunately the result is negative. That's what we're worried about and what didn't happen in 2014, 15 when the situation was much, much harder, but here, for the last 3 years we've been constantly sinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137491	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137492	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I think these changes will positively reflect on our positions on the Doing Business ranking. I usually like to say that all those who were before me, the ministers of the judiciary, that they all made a certain step forward and behind all there are certain positive results. I think what this government is going to do now in the segment of the Law on Commercial Society and the possibility of companies being more easily founded than ever, that it will be a good step and that entrepreneurs and how it will feel, and then it will feel on these scales.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137493	Thank you. - Mrs. Crescent. Hope Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm actually going to repeat myself with my first-reading question, which is a situation where it's not all as great and wonderful as you're telling us. In fact, we can hope that this law will change things, but the fact is that, let's say, entrepreneurs of ours who have registered companies at commercial courts can print these registrations on e-Citizens, however, these same registrations do not do them any time when they file them, say, specifically to the MUP. So, no matter how many e-Citizens you can print out a copy of the register, that copy of the register, you, say, don't accept in the MUP until you get hit by a trade court and, of course, don't pay for it. What I can quite understand is that you need to pay, but that it has not been arranged so far in a way that you can do it online, what you said from the living room, it's really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137495	Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137496	Dear MPs, we listened to you in your first reading, and now we've installed it in the amendments to the Court Register Act, so that will be possible now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137497	Mr. Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137498	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'd like to say hello to my associates. We from HSS, I personally welcome all amendments to the laws that go in the direction of the entrepreneurial climate, better to create in the Republic of Croatia, to facilitate business for entrepreneurs and, of course, to make it easier for young people who are interested to enter the world of entrepreneurship. However, I would like to point out two problems that are present at the moment. Namely, many have flown into the business world, with 10 kuna founded j.d.o., and then when they saw that it wasn't really for them, they wanted to shut it down, and then it's seen that it takes a year and a few tens of thousands of kunas to shut down society or what's happening now, that FINA is sending penalties to those who forgot to send financial reports, or who forgot to submit a statement of inactivity in the last year, and the penalties are several thousand kunas, and I think we have to be partners to those young societies, and not immediately punish them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137499	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137500	I agree, we have to be partners, but we actually have to respect the laws that are in force, and I don't think it's a problem that there's any problem in delivering reports about what FINA is looking for and it would be a bad message if we said it wasn't necessary, and as far as it's concerned, I agree that it should be flexible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137501	Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Let's go now with the debate. The first is the club of HDZ representatives to be presented by Mr. Zarko Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137502	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, actually, we said everything more or less in the first reading in the context of changing and supplementing one and the other of these two laws. The basic framework is action, i.e. The national programme for the reform of the current Government of 2017, which is covered by the European Parliament and Council Directive 2006, so-called Services Directives which, with a view to short-term simplification of administrative operations at all levels of business. At this point, the business of economic operators, entrepreneurs in the context of the establishment of companies and of everything related to the economy to the position of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register. Of course, the key goal is to fully strengthen the competitiveness of our economy, its stronger openness to investment and simply make business easier for our economies, entrepreneurs who have a number of barriers in their business bureaucratised or administratively capacitated state is just one of these. To remind you of the key moments, means these changes and additions allow them to be completely out of the public notebook and with minimum costs established by d.o.o. J.D.O.O. Obligations to determine the subject-matter of a social contract shall be abandoned. This was neither relevant to business alone, entrepreneur, entrepreneur, economic operator, more to define internal relations in management or management of society in the context of potential compensation, damages from the position of poor management and management of society and other values of the law. Amendments accepted, i.e. Proposals adopted in relation to first reading in the present final proposal of the Law on Commercial Companies and the Law on the Court Register in relation to the Law on Commercial Companies for first reading have been respected by the observations of the Ministry of Finance i.e. the obligation of the public notary, i.e. the entrepreneur on the delivery of a secret contract and that tax administration in the establishment of a commercial secret company, in relation to the Law on Court Registers, to enable what we have just heard of the release of the excerpts from the court register by electronic means, and that online excerpt is used in the legal order as already used by the e-country book excerpt. Also delete provisions on the reservation of the name or name of the company. What is important to say, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted and adopted an action plan for administrative redundancies in the economy in 2019. This plan contains 314 measures, some of these measures are incorporated, implemented in this law, it relieves the economy of more than 600 million kuna from the position of the economy. The objectives of this plan are the complete digital transformation particularly in the business mode segment, the abolition as we have said all unnecessary administrative obligations, the reduction of the scope of the documentation that entrepreneurs need to deliver when fulfilling and the elimination or reduction of financial compensation wherever possible at a minimum level. All that we all have to do together, first of all the Government of the Republic of Croatia but it is actually in some way a space where there are absolute consents, I believe on the one hand and on the other hand of our Assembly is to make our economy and our economy as competitive as possible, and that our real sector that predicates it so let's say in incomes and in creating a new value and in the context of our exports we make it as competitive as possible and that we simply allow people to have the state wherever they can partner and as little as possible a stepmother, especially where they don't need it. And in this context, of course, in front of the HDZ Club, we welcome and support the amendments and additions of these two laws in the second reading and we look forward to other proposals for amendments and additions to the laws in the context of the overall administrative discharges and the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme that the Government implements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137503	Thank you, too. It is now up to Mr Tomislav Panenic, in front of the club of representatives of the independent lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137504	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, dear ministers and associates, I welcome you here as well as my appreciation for my colleague and colleague. Today we have, we see a series of laws that have only one purpose, which is to achieve a better rank on the list of doing business. Of course by studying the list of doing business, what's important is just to say that what's it based on? Based on the example of one company that should operate in the Zagreb city, which makes one thing, I would say a reference, reference company and it is being tested by all our laws that advance, i.e. which also restrict its ability to operate from the very process of establishing it and ultimately to its business activities and closures. The very list of doing business has shown that unless we do anything in one year and stay on the same points, someone beats us to it. And this government had already passed more than 51 places that ended in 58 places in 2017, and the points remained there about 71 40, 71 70, so there were no significant changes. Just what's he saying? It says that others are making significant efforts to become more competitive and to give business more opportunity to entrepreneurs. If we look at the components of the doing business itself, the biggest remark, actually the biggest drop happened just at the start of the business where we fell from 87 places on that list to 123 places. I, too, am actually justified that the minister and his associates have initiated procedures that should be promoted by this particular segment, meaning the founding segment. And what we can say is not only that it is now the wish of the minister but it is the desire and the entrepreneurs, the long-standing desire of the entrepreneurs to shorten the procedure, to make it as simple as possible and to establish companies as necessary. So I have a business idea today, I'm starting my business today, and if I have to do my first transaction today without all those unnecessary ones, maybe for those of us who have learned to live in the world that everyone, first established, is a suspect that they're all thieves, so let's just get ahead of themselves so we can limit them to a number of regulations. But the world progresses differently, so it doesn't limit itself, it doesn't think about it, it only thinks about capital, about investment, about creating new jobs, about competitiveness on the market. And then why it's hard for us to accept that we don't use EU benefits. We have already used the benefits of moving, free movement of capital, goods, services, and now we have freedom of movement of market power, labour force and we have not managed to take advantage of the benefits of being rigid enough and this effort that has now made the ministry, it actually shows we want to reach others, somehow I always miss this desire for innovation to be realized, let's at some point be something and a leader, let's be number one, let's be someone who's going to risk it, but if you don't risk it, you're certainly not going to profit because with these measures that are here, which we generally give and support in all this, means no one will tell us that it's something that contributes to improving business but what we can say, we'll be at some level here as well as some of the nappy competitors nothing significantly better, we won't possibly be anything significantly worse,... Maybe this regional environment, but we haven't made that wow effect, what people say in Croatia has happened, that ambassadors from other countries say here have made progress in their reports, that at some economic events we can promote that we have made a real leap that will tickle someone to say ok, let's see in that Croatia to take advantage of the opportunity that we have been given. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're still dealing with longer registrations that should be in the electronic world, doing something today's decision, binding on my name, I'm opening up my name and last name today and I want to do business and in that time may be dealing with some legal I would say such background activities, burden me, I'm responsible for it, I want to run, I'm the entrepreneur, I'm the one who invests in the capital of myself, my family, my relatives, the capital I borrowed from people or from financial institutions, don't wait to prove that I have that intention, but immediately bind it to me today. And even as we speak here, maybe even a banality, which is a seal, I'm facing situations where it is, for example. For the seal associations, it's no longer mandatory but believe me wherever I come to an institution and I'm the president of the KUD myself, so they say but please, can you stamp it? So I explain to them that the law is unnecessary, abolished, but you know we have a pattern, we have a form, we even put in public calls for the award of financial resources of associations, there is such a provision that is illegal. In fact, I'm not going to say that it's illegal, no one can say that it's illegal, no one can say that a piece of something that leaves a trail is illegal because it's used in good faith but unnecessary, it's bureaucratic and it creates trust, instead of saying, but you can really go to any print shop that does that, and they're outside making whatever you want, and what's that trust? Once again, it's only that person's trust, not that piece of rubber that leaves a print. What we would like to praise here in one piece so that if we tried to do a little bit and make that improvement, the activities are no longer required to be entered in the registration or through the registrations that were demanding, requiring procedures as well as can be complemented, you will do it relatively quickly, but we haven't completely freed it yet. In fact, the question arises why is it necessary for any company to register any activity if it is not determined by certain special conditions of a subordinate law as something which requires a special authorisation to carry out. Today, if you want to do trade, will someone stop you? So you're doing trade because you put it into activity, you're not, so are you prevented from trading any goods or services or providing some service, and we're saying ourselves that you can deal with certain activities on a smaller scale, meaning that the introduction of all these activities actually creates in that entry a court register an endless text which I believe that no one or ever would have to be constantly something that's being studied in such a forensic way by anyone who's listed and whether it's authorized, I believe that some company and that it hasn't entered into the register and it's been engaged for years and that everything is fine financially and without any problem, that no one will tell them a single remark even though it's been an obligation, this would change. Therefore, we are talking about that the actual activity is only when the requirement may be where the threat is, I don't know people or through some other form, so there needs to be agreement specifically, in fact, the special consent of the ministry, everything else is commercial, I think the activities of companies or any business entity that it carries out with the intention to make a profit so that we have made one step forward here but I think it might be even more liberal and eventually leave it to the entrepreneur that he is identifying himself with the activities he wants to carry out. I'd kind of get attached to this question of the company's title, on the one hand means freedom is, you can call the company whatever you want, on the other hand, so now this proposal goes that I can't be two of the same names then we see that there are two different OIBs. and people themselves have the same names, and even in one family, they have the same address and they have different OIBs, so nobody made them change their name or name. But we don't allow two companies to come from different parts, intentions or anything that might have a name that's related to their name, last name or anything, but if someone has taken something from you, before that, you can't, so we don't talk about protected names and that's what we're talking about, but we're talking about simple names where the company can really get a name by the name of its founder which is very often the case, which we should tell someone it's the same name, so you can't have that name, you can't have that name, of course here I'm going to build a fence and say that anyone who wants to maybe and put the same name must be aware that they shouldn't be used and therefore responds if they need to go wrong or criminally for what they're going to do if they lead someone astray. We're talking about a law that needs to be promoted. There is perhaps one thing that is really important here, and it is a good attempt to be done by members of the Supervisory Board where you define that the supervisory boards of companies whose shares are traded on a regulated market must be professional in the field of accounting or audit of financial reports. I will now ask the question, and why this only applies to the supervisory boards of companies listed on our stock exchanges, why not, for example, for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia or D.O.O. which are owned by local self-government or any other d.o.o. where the owner believes that or owners believe that they should put people who will oversee the business and I would say that, we should not only have those who understand the financial business should have one lawyer, because so that legal affairs understands, we should have someone who is from that branch that understands the business of the subject of the fundamental business that we would have been like this, we remain only limited to one part of the companies, and I have met, and probably some of the present colleagues and colleagues here, here we now have in Ulnik, we are talking about the responsibility of the administration, we all agree that management there has made the failures that led to the part that are practically characterized by criminal but the court will prove it probably for years. But then I ask the question, and what the Supervisory Board was doing, the supervisory board that was supposed to control the work of that company, control on behalf of the owner of the work of the administration, they didn't notice anything, they simply gave the management discharge after losing almost a billion kuna, extended the term of office to the president of the right and considered that they did what their role really was. When I heard about that information, I couldn't believe it. First personally, if I were a member of such a supervisory committee, at the very least, I would transfer such a decision to the congregation, not expose myself. So when you go to expose yourself personally, by name and last name through the Supervisory Board in that sense, then it means that you have to be in some way involved, related to it, and nobody can personally tell me that members of the board, members of the Supervisory Board, have not worked together and have actually taken possession of the real owners. They were the ones who abused actually the trust of the owners there primarily the little ones who had the slightest knowledge of it. And then we have problems on all sides with management of companies, abuse of positions, powers, I don't know any tax offences or criminal acts that are committed and ultimately the responsibility of the administration is small, and now we should be in one form, one person who will be financially submerged means that this is exactly what happened. Is this how we delegate other members of the Supervisory Board, why we say that one member of the Supervisory Board must be the one who has to determine it. The Supervisory Board may also seek external expertise for its own purposes, but if you go to be a member of the Supervisory Board, you must know the business of companies. I met with a case where the administration did not even propose to the Assembly to discuss the resolution of the administration, if they say it was never done, that it was in the Law on Commercial Society that they never applied it, so it was good practice, and even when the Supervisory Board was established, they did not put it on the agenda either. They didn't know, the congregation didn't know, everything was fine until there was a problem. 'Cause we're gonna have some amendments, but here's a positive spirit to uphold the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137505	It is now up to Mr Orsat Milenić, Orsat Milenić, who will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club and SDP's pardon, it's the first mistake of that kind. [[Not the SDP.]] Wait, I hope, I hope it's the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137506	Mr. Vice President, your colleague's ministers have already seen you today, colleagues and fellow MPs, of course, as someone who comes from the opposition, it's not always easy to say that we will support the law, and we will. That's what I said in my first reading. So, all this stuff you've predicted here, and I'd say with this change that doesn't seem great in the court register about names and name registrations, it doesn't seem great, but I think it's certainly a big change, between the two readings are great things. And I think we should support it and this is going to be a good step forward, and now I'm going to say why, and I'm also going to express my skepticism towards some broader frameworks that are not just about this law. So, all day here through the debate is actually going through, these aren't the only laws, they're going through this famous Duing business and everybody's talking about what's going to help us on the scales, they will, they won't, etc. Let's face it, this law is gonna help us jump on that ladder, that's a good thing. Let us also be realistic, because of the position on the scale, neither will come to Croatia to invest, and I am behind it, but we are playing in it, we have agreed to those rules, and it is in our interest to all, as a country, as a state and as an opposition to be better ranked and therefore we support every place that we go worse than anyone else at least in that, so that's a good thing. But I'm saying no one's going to have the illusion that because they're going to start a company one or two days faster, that they're going to come to invest in Croatia 10 million euros, they won't, and that's because they're going to see it, but we're in competition with other countries, and the national interest is that we're doing better and that's why this is a good thing you're doing and you've addressed really important points in Doing Business, that's how we're going to jump there. However, what may be an even greater contribution to this law, which is that it is on the trail of changing philosophy in terms of moving away from traditional approach to business, through papers, through departures, through various institutions, etc. and this is the biggest contribution, and whenever you point someone at the start of business to work in such a way that they sit from home and they can solve things like that, you've actually directed them in a different way of doing business, and it doesn't matter now they want it to last 24 hours, 48 hours or more, but you've directed them into a whole new step of work, and it gives people a chance to step into a new environment, and it's, in my opinion, the biggest contribution to this, especially if or not if it does, but when it's able to connect with an e-citizen and when this isn't just the beginning of business, it's all these other things that are related to business, when they're digitized and when you can actually solve them without going to an institution, and that's what it's an indication of what needs ić rh. So, with a modern society, this is a step towards modernity, and that's a good thing, that's a great thing. So, I said, the start of getting into business is simpler, it's good, the great thing is a different approach to that start and it's a big step. What I think is not going to help us, unfortunately, too much, at the code, I say, in doing business itself, because like all the research that has been done, you have a serious investor, he overcomes these obstacles, and time is not so important to him. What I would point out, what I was saying in the first, in the debate, in the first round, in the first reading, is, I don't think it's a good thing that you've cut the rules on the payment of founding capital. Why? Because we already have the opportunity to start a simple company for £10.00, we had for £20.00, now we actually have the amount of €10.00 and 5.00. In my opinion, the right path would be to leave 10.00 kn for all those who want to try it in private, in business, want to enter the market, want to see how it is, have some idea, have no money, leave them 10.00 kn, but let's raise this another 50, 70.000,00 kn. Why? Everyone has a chance to go for £10.00, and if you want to show maybe some greater seriousness, so you're going into some more serious project, then invest more because you're going to invest more with both your partner and everyone you're doing business with tomorrow, show that you're more serious. So then there would be some distance more important, this way by me if you go at 5.00 kn, and the real thing is 5.00 kn, then they could just put this away, just leave one. So, I'm saying, that's the one thing where we're actually losing, we have one extra thing now, and the bigger difference, you know, when someone went into the market, then you're looking at it, this is for 10,000,00 kn, this one paid, 50,000,00 kn, of course, that he can pull them out, but that's 50,000,00 kn that went into the company, something can be made with them, it shows seriousness. So it's my grudge which, I think, is that solution well. Of course, you chose it the way it is, but I say, it brings nothing. The other thing isn't just about these laws, it's a little bit wider, and that's, we're still actually in a country of 4 million residents, we're keeping as many as 15 court registers. How many commercial courts do we have now I don't even know? 8, excuse me, 8 court registers, well, it's not 15. It's 8. 8 to 4 million inhabitants, so it would take time, and hopefully this is the basis for that, and that's why I praised this digitization to be the basis, that we go to only one place, to run in one place. If I can do everything digitally, I don't have to come anywhere physically, then everything can be in one place, then these things about the name, about the business, about all these things are actually different and then the whole procedure would be simplified. It may be the first step, but the second step is something I really believe we should do where we can, and it's moving all the registers from the courts wherever we can. The court is here to judge, not register certain relationships. When a dispute comes, then give the court, but the registration itself, the start of business, so what's the court got to do with it? Especially in these simpler trades, in trades, therefore, with limited liability. So, I'm saying, that was one big step, but I'm convinced that until we decide on it, we're not going to round up a different way of doing business. As soon as you have two procedures that overlap, judicial and administrative in anything, it always turns out a little longer than we wanted and a little more complicated, etc. So the good part of the countries that we look at and that we think are advanced, they have these, they have a simplified thing, we register simply either in a chamber or it doesn't matter, if something is controversial, the court will solve it and the matter goes on. But to get back to the beginning, we welcome the changes in the law, we will certainly jump on the Doing Business list, digitization is a great thing, and it will serve you today through this tomorrow, and such an entrepreneur will tomorrow if he doesn't have any luck, so it will have some slowness, it will work more easily in an e-record or digital dispute, etc., these are all great things. But let's not have the illusion that with this kind of thing, we're just going to make things so much easier for people. The business will unfortunately remain as it is now, and that is something to think about, so there are cosmetic changes to be commended, but a great result, unfortunately we, like, not this government, are not even previous governments, has failed to catch something that, as Panenic spoke of, would be very different from others. And to say, yes, I'm going to Croatia, I'm going to invest, it's great for business there. That yet, that key we haven't seen in this House. So, the changes are good, we'll be better, but we won't be good enough for everyone to be happy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137507	Thank you, too. Mr. Orsat Milenic spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, so it's clear again. Now it's Mr. Ivan Lovrinović's turn, who will have, who would have an individual discussion, if he had it in the assembly, but he's gone, so he's losing his right. And now I'm closing the debate and we'll vote in a proverbial manner when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137508	We will now declare the amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 599, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by representative Ivana Ninčević Lesandric. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted again by State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice Josip Salapic. First of all, on the amendment of the Legislative Committee to Article 51.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137509	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137510	Article 96
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137511	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137512	On the amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević Lesandric,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137513	The amendment is not accepted, thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The company law stipulates that the nominal amount of the business share must be expressed in a whole number of multiple numbers of 100. In particular, it relates to the amount of the business share, not to the percentage of which the business share represents in the underlying capital d.o.o.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137514	Dear representative Lesandric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137515	Dear Secretary of State... about changing one word. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't understand what this is all about, I don't have a lot of time, but that's why... The problem that it presents to entrepreneurs, especially these foreign investors, whom we all call for to come to Croatia, and then when people come, of course, to leave, especially when they come across such nonsense, and only one example. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's another absurd in Croatia, I entered the ownership structure of an existing company, I staked in the owner 50, 50. The capital of 24,000 kuna, all carried out by the public notary, went to a commercial court. The case was returned, of course, because 24 thousand and 500 divided into 2 times 100 imagine it's not a round number. Now, it's easy that I have to go from one end of the country to the other end of the country, lose 2 days of cost I don't count on them to sign it again, because our law says it has to be an integer. In America without a problem, I buy 20.03 shares and bitcoin with 0.03. I don't understand why in Croatia must be an integer. I guess we're the only state in the world that has to be. Here's what you're thinking, so apply it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137516	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-09-0.u137517	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 599. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, representative Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric. We have held a statement on the amendments earlier in the session, and we will now vote on amendments that the applicant does not accept. Therefore, the Legislative Committee, Amendment 1 and Amendment 2 adopted. In the amendment of MP Ivana Ninčević-Lesandric, the government does not accept it, so we must vote, please vote. I'm saying he didn't get the votes he needed. And I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society, please vote. I find that, unanimously, 106 votes have been passed on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let's get back to work. The first point is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Official, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 612 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed on an urgent basis. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, with us is a respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, Zdravko Zrinašić. Here you go.
