ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145006	Dear colleagues and colleagues continue to work, today is the first item: - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Art. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Natasha Mikush Zigman, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145007	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, esteemed MPs and MPs, here, in short, therefore, this bill is proposed to comply with the State Inspectorate Act, which entered into force on 1 April of this year, which, as we know, takes over all inspection tasks by the State Inspectorate, and therefore the draft of this law amends the provisions of Article. 8 and 9 relating to inspection tasks of the implementation of the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity and to the second-degree appeal procedure for the decision of the Inspector. A consultation was conducted with the interested public, there were no objections other than one of the questions to which the reply was given. The reason why this law is proposed by an emergency procedure is to avoid creating legal gaps in the conduct of inspection services and, in conclusion, the implementation of the law does not require the provision of resources in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145008	Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, then I open the debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club is reporting for participation in the debate, on their behalf will speak MP Zarko Tušek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145009	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, the distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues, and I see that today we are in a somewhat lighter tone and a more light variant so that there is no need to over-laborate these amendments and additions to this law, all in the context of the establishment of a single state inspectorate, transfer and this part of inspection to the State Inspectorate, and in the context of the national programme of reform of the current government, which, from the position of the establishment of the Single State Inspectorate from the general and professional and economic public, is assessed as a very positive measure which will in many ways facilitate economic activity, and therefore the competitiveness of our economy of all our entrepreneurs and craftsmen, that is in that sense and the latter, what the secretary of state said about the measure of things, the HDZ Club of course supports this technical proposal of law that must be made so that the single inspectorate can function in the way and imagined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145010	Since there are no others reported, I conclude the debate, we will vote when the conditions are met, and I would like to take a 15-minute break until the conditions for discussion on the next item are met, until the applicants arrive. Thank you. It's 9:35 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145011	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Prohibition and Prevention of Unregistered Activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 645, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on that final draft of the law. I find that most votes, 77 for and 6 against the law on amending and supplementing the Law on the prohibition and prevention of unregistered activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145012	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] The next item of the agenda is : - Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018 The report is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 33 of the Law on Official Statistics. [[One minute of silence.]] The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145013	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As regards this report, it would also point out that at the beginning of 2013, the State Statistics Institute presented a strategy for the development of official statistics on the period from 2013 to 2022 and, for the purposes of medium-term planning, a multiannual programming document of the National Statistics Institute, called the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia, which lists the main results of official statistics and the most important development activities to be achieved. In relation to this report, it is currently a programme of statistical activities from 2018 to 2020 based on the needs of users and also on EU requirements. One of the main tasks of the statistical system is the more efficient and timely application and dissemination of quality statistical indicators that maintain economic and social phenomena and processes and provide the user with a known source of analysis of the existing situation and decision-making. Therefore, official statistics are important not only in national but also in international contexts because it allows comparison of certain aspects of social and economic development with other countries. First of all, this is highlighted personally after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU and a special emphasis is placed on the integration of the statistical system of the Republic of Croatia into the European statistical system and enabling comparison of Croatia's statistics with data from EU Member States. On the basis of the Law on Official Statistics, the State Institute shall draw up a draft report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of statistical activities and the following reports by the holder of official statistics, i.e. ministries and other bodies of the State Administration. In accordance with that draft proposal for the document in question, it was discussed and unanimously accepted at the first constitutive session of the 4th convenes the statistical advice of the Republic of Croatia held on 6 May this year and is directed through the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the report itself. The report on the implementation of the 2018 annual statistical implementation plan shall be the first report to cover the period covered by this statistical activity programme. The report itself wanted to highlight the importance of statistical research and contribute to the visibility of the entire Croatian statistical system. In addition to the National Bureau of Statistics, which is the main holder, disseminator and coordinator of official statistics, according to the Law on Official Statistics and the programme of statistical activities, the holders of official statistics are defined, and among them are the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, which should be indicated that, as of 1.1 this year, the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and will continue its activities instead of the Agency itself. There is also HNB, HZJZ, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb responsible for official statistics affairs. The following best European practice concerning the annual reporting of national statistical offices consists of two parts for 2018. The first part, other than the introductory part in which the statistical area is briefly described, contains data in terms of improving the relationship with users defined as one of the strategic objectives of the State Statistics Institute for the period 2018-2020, and then contains a presentation of those surveys where improvements have been made, e.g. improving methodology, revisions, introducing new or modifying existing research to comply with national or European standards. Furthermore, in this first part, it contains an overview of the results of the projects or the development of the activities carried out in the year to which the report relates. The second part of the report shall contain a review table with a list of all planned activities in statistical areas including a confirmation of each survey or a brief explanation in the event that the survey has not been conducted in full or in accordance with the defined deadlines. In accordance with the very Law on Official Statistics, the annual implementation plan is prescribed to carry out three types of research. First statistical research based on direct data collection, then statistical surveys from administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and then development activities, census and other extensive statistical research. The report also points out that, in line with European requirements and national needs, the Croatian statistical system has continued to develop and implement new statistical activities and the State Statistics Institute is taking into account restrictions on the availability of financial resources provided in the state budget. The annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 280 statistical activities of which 158 based on direct data collection, 78 based on administrative data sources and 44 development activities. Of these mentioned 280 planned statistical activities, 279 were carried out by the State Statistics Institute itself, he planned 232, and he carried out 231 activities, until 1 statistical activity was carried out in 2018, which is the methodology and calculation of the value of long-term assets of Croatia. This study is included in the Annual Implementation Plan of statistical activity this year and its implementation is planned in accordance with the defined deadlines. As for other holders of official statistics, it is evident that they have carried out all the activities planned by the Annual Implementation Plan and, respectively, 48. According to the fields of statistical research and projects in 2018, 6 areas, i.e. the first area of demographic and social statistics were 73, then the area of macroeconomic statistics 47, business statistics 100, statistics on agriculture, forestry, fisheries 36, statistics on several areas of 23 and ultimately the area related to support for statistical output 1 statistical research. For the implementation of all these statistical activities in 2018, the State Institute planned 105.9 million kuna, with 95.7 million kuna being 90.34 of the total planned funds, and the funds spent themselves are almost equal to 2017. The cost of funding EU funds at EU funds sources is 15.3 million kuna, which is 61.93 more than in 2017, while expenditure of 419.000 kuna was financed from own revenue. In line with one of the general strategic objectives, the State Statistics Institute has consistently sought to increase the level of user involvement in the statistical activity definition process. Active participation and involvement of stakeholders are an important prerequisite for further development and improvement of official statistics in the Republic of Croatia, especially with regard to meeting user needs. In recent years, therefore, the annual statistical implementation plan itself aims to include a wider set of institutions as well as other users in its production process. Finally, by virtue of the Law on Official Statistics, this report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2018 is submitted to the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145014	A representative of Nikola Grmoya called in a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145015	So here I think that the presence of representatives in the assembly is also about the interest of today's points, and in general for the interest of working in the assembly, but more than the statistical research carried out, we are concerned about the data that you were not even competent to speak of here, but what is worrying is that we in Croatia have a depopulation, that we have a large eviction, that we have poor demographic trends, and unfortunately this government does not understand the seriousness of the problem and on this issue almost nothing works. Let us remember the resignation of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Demography since then, practically, meaning the only demographic in that ministry, nothing has changed since, we haven't seen any concrete government moves related to, means stopping these negative demographic trends and more than themselves, more than just these conducted statistical research we're interested in. what the government is going to do about it. [[Intruder: Timed out.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145016	Thank you. The reply to the replica, State Secretary Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145017	Thank you to the well-respected Mr. MP, indeed, it is only a report showing the activities of the State Statistics Institute during the year on the basis of a programme that is usually three years old and based on a strategy that is set for 10 years, and as far as demographics and all other measures are concerned, they are really not alone, this is just reported as a consequence of all this. It is a trend which unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia we have a longer series, and perhaps 10 years, 20 years and that is expected of all governments, and even these now Croatian governments to take measures in this regard before than any of these fiscal and other incentives, I believe that in certain segments, above all, in the context of tax policy, to see it and see it. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145018	Representative Grozdana Peric also reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145019	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, so I would like what you stressed about how much the coverage is done with statistics and research and I would like to highlight the importance of conducting research continuously with quality data, with a quality information system, because some countries are conducting research within a few days and have complete data. So, we must strive to strengthen this activity so that we have as high-quality data as possible, that they come at the right time and that they can then have a quality, react and take measures. So, empowerment both information, so professionally, humanely and in all ways possible to make that area as high-quality as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145020	The reply to the replica, State Secretary Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145021	Thank you very much. Dear Madam MPs, this is true what you have stated is true, and above all, because our National Statistics Institute is also a member of EUROSTAT means the European Statistical Reporting System and it is very important that, with the personnel who need to be provided the same in terms of their expertise and sufficientness, that the data they process are timely, accurate and that they serve as a quality basis for making appropriate decisions in relation to those statistics this data provided to us by the Bureau or EUROSTAT. So the goal is not just to get the data for the data, but to keep it on time and to be accurate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145022	Representative Miro Bulj reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145023	Thank you very much. The Bureau of Statistics means the triba has a financial framework to do all of this together and to see the statistical indicators, here's what demographics have meant to be devastating results, here's only when we look at the Dalmatian Zagora, so we have a financial cost, probably and credible these results are statistical, indicators, but the measure absolutely does not. I can speak for the Dalmatian Zagora from Krka to Neretva, measures are important, statistical indicators that are most credible, the fact is that the depopulation of areas in the Republic of Croatia 2/3 is empty and the measure has no meaning that this statistical institution requires certain financial costs, their expertise means the implementation of these statistical indicators is very important. However, you are a representative of the government, yet someone should say what comes from these statistics. 2/3 of Croatia is empty but no measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145024	The reply to the replica, State Secretary Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145025	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I would really not agree that the measure does not exist, these are indicators used in terms of the methodological, European reporting system, statistical reporting, and as a component of Eurostat, our Statistical Office uses unambiguous indicators that show trends that are not only in demographics but in any area that has been the subject of research here. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145026	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening up a debate. The HDZ representative's club reported for participation in the debate on their behalf will be represented by MP Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145027	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Representative of the State Statistics Office. Before us is the Annual Report on the implementation of the 2018 statistical research plan for the Republic of Croatia. A report that has nothing to add or take away, it has been technically well done, however, this report should primarily serve us parliamentary representatives as a help in discussing many points of the agenda. Then, as we did yesterday and the day before yesterday around some very important points, we would not have had flat-rate reviews and evaluations, but would have been used by official information which was officially recognised not only in Croatia, but these are reports sent by the Croatian Statistics Institute to Brussels, Eurostat. And based on that, and I'm going to talk about that later, there are a lot of parameters that are very important to the Republic of Croatia. Today we can take out what, depending on whether we're in opposition or whether we're in power to attack something, but we change here as far as we're concerned, we're not going to do anything, but we're going to be able to point out, an offer, suggest something changes when the agenda points are here. Because I say unfortunately very often in discussions in this High House we do not use official data from the institutions of the Republic of Croatia, but we do speak according to our own means. And that's what's not good. In 2013, speaking for this same speaker on, it was a point of the agenda, I think it was an amendment to the Law on the State Statistics Office I warned of the importance of the State Statistics Office, it is, in my opinion, one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia at the moment. Why? So, according to the data provided by the State Statistics Institute, the precisely prescribed methodology processes the calculation of how much Croatia needs to invest in the common budget in Brussels. So that's very important. Because it's not exactly what you want to give 100 million euros more or less. So, with that basis, the work of the State Statistics Institute is very important. It is also important when I talk about those famous statistical regions which unfortunately served more than once as a subject of political bickering and not as an object of a real political one, in fact primarily a professional one, because first the professional basis should be and then a political decision, how many Croatia really should have statistical regions to base on, if we correctly determine them in the frameworks that have been set up in advance by certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, get as many grants from the EU. We know that Croatia ad hoc was divided into two statistical regions and then you had some that had very little income per capita, so on. Per capital and on the other hand you had those who were very rich, however, both of them regardless of which part of the funds were withdrawn they unfortunately had the same percentage of the grants. What intrigued me most, and I want to talk about it, and this is on page 8 and I will quote that it would not be later if I had said something wrong, since the State Statistics Office has partial powers over the employment process to strengthen the capacity of the planned measure with the aim of improving human potential is to inform the competent authorities about the state of human resources to the National Statistics Office. The current state of human resources in the future could have a negative impact on the quality and sustainability of statistical, statistical production. I think this is the key line we should discuss today. Because this clearly points out that the former director, I am sorry that he is not here today because I would rather comment with him than with my colleague Zrinasic, because we have not discussed him in this House for the past 5, 6 years, and this is one big danger that the State Statistics Institute has no quality and educational staff, that even what some colleagues have said in the debate and the secretary of state have not been able to quickly process and reproduce and on the basis of this timely action. Because it doesn't really matter if you make a decision in some segments of life six months or a year sooner or later. With six months of decision making before miracles can be made, and six months later disaster may occur. So what I want to say here today on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I think that this is the most important thing for this report, give them full support for the government of the Republic of Croatia and the leadership of the new State Statistics Office for two things, is information, and the other is the employment and education of new people, because if we don't make colleagues and colleagues here we can be politically bickering as much as we want, but this is the only body that gives relevant data based on decisions. It used to be done in several institutions, and even about the deficits of the state budget we have been fighting, the national methodology, this methodology and that deficit we simply have to count on the ESA, whether in 2010 or another, but these are the criteria that are for these EU member states, and therefore determines a lot of things, and even among other things, the credit rating agencies are looking at it, you are determined by credit rating, which means only a little more favourable credit rating you have seen these days when the state is in debt at historically low interest rates, regardless of what the situation on the capital market is that the time is historically low interest rates, but that the RH does not have such good macro-economic indicators, this would be 2–2.5%, there would be no such as it is. So, when you translate what the State Statistics Institute is doing, what Eurostat checks out and when it's officially published, if that's good, then it can have benefits not only for a country to be in charge, but it has benefits for both the economy and the citizens, but if it's a bad result, if someone says it's not credible then we're in an untrustworthy state, and nobody will basically trust our data, and that's why I think this is on the page. 8 and 9, these two sentences are the key thing. So, to build a strong institution, well-equipped, well-educated personnel, and to have well-educated personnel, we must pay them better, we must simply become aware that you will not get a top expert for some small salary, but you should and pay it, and then we will be sure that, first of all, those in the professional services, therefore, the state administration that adopts and proposes laws, but also us as parliamentary representatives, we will get a quality debate, written one, so to say in plain language, daily and on the basis of that we will be able to discuss the full point of the agenda. Look, we, as far as demographics are concerned, forgive my expression, throw ourselves at us for politics for a day. However, when it comes to demographics, then it is clear exactly what laws these are, which ministries should do, and let us not then and when it comes to tax policy and when it comes to some measures to support young families, to see how politically they fit at that point, and in order to be able to discuss it in quality, then we need these data from the State Statistics Office, is it the easiest thing to establish the Republic of Croatia will be 20 years from now. Lost so many and so many residents. But a series of indicators and research carried out by the State Statistics Institute can serve as a basis for these catastrophic assessments that are done on, to say statistically, the basis of the existing situation, in the future, to be slightly different. So, if we are to observe and watch the work of the State Statistics Institute in such a way, then probably when a state budget is passed and we support the government's proposal to ensure greater resources so that this quality can be done, which is because God does not allow colleagues and colleagues to say that someone in Eurostat in Brussels says that the data processed by the Croatian Statistics Institute is not consistent with the methodology used in Eurostat. You know how devastating that would be for the state? That would be terrible because then, then I can do what's very important, I just mentioned two things, one is how much money the Republic of Croatia needs to pay, and the other is the percentage of the withdrawal of grants by statistical regions, just let the changes I can make to you, as our people say, burn a few hundred million EUR's without a problem. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HDZ Club will not repeat these technical indicators, they are made correctly, in accordance with the rules of the profession and there is nothing to be added. He's also expecting us in two years. The population list, we as HS will make some decisions, but the government, the expert bodies of the government, therefore, people who deal with these problems on a daily basis should basically determine what are the specificities of the Republic of Croatia that we would like to get based on the census? What grains in the overall picture of the Republic of Croatia would we like to see in particular so that they can make decisions on the basis of this? Look, colleagues and colleagues, I'm going to touch a segment that I've been dealing with my whole life, which is tax and tax policy. Sometimes certain provisions of what kind of tax or something will be also depend on what statistical research is and what is the situation in certain regions in the Republic of Croatia. Look, I'm just going to give you an example, remember how long it's been here, but only on this side, they're saying it while they're in opposition, but when they're in power, they don't say it, how much there's been talk and panic about flat-rate taxation in tourism. However, if the State Statistics Institute were given the opportunity to process as one statistical survey in 2019. That area, we would get one quality background that we can really based on the fact that we would discuss it and then the Ministry of Finance, and also to the units of local self-government that now have jurisdiction to make those decisions was much, much easier to make decisions. And that I no longer owe and don't open any more topics, colleagues and colleagues this research of these 280 statistical activities that the Institute of Statistics has done in 2018 to all of us who are discussing in this assembly, to everyone who makes decisions in the Republic, to everyone who prepares decisions and how they can serve as a basis for making the best and as right decisions as possible, and to us in the Croatian Parliament to start discussing concrete facts, not to talk about what comes to whom it comes to mind. So, I repeat and repeat once again, the HDZ Club gives full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on empowerment of human resources and education in the State Statistics Office, as well as information at the State Statistics Institute, and I hope to be honest that we will all keep that in mind when we discuss the state budget for 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145028	The MOST representative club also reported for participation in the debate, Marko Sladolev will speak on their behalf.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So before us the report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 is correct, the purpose of official statistics is the continuous development of statistics and the production and dissemination of statistics in accordance with the basic principles of official statistics and one of the main tasks of the statistical system is the efficient and timely preparation and dissemination of quality statistics that maintain economic, social phenomena and processes and provide users with a reliable source for the analysis of the existing situation and decision-making. So this word for me is the key in today's agenda, so I would normally consider your profession extremely important and extremely important for the Republic of Croatia. All those who studied the Faculty of Economics, I did not but have many friends knew how difficult it was for them to pass on to the Faculty of Economics and that it was one of the most difficult subjects at the Faculty of Economics and official statistics is important, not only in national but also in international frameworks because it allows comparison of individual social and economic development with other countries. In early 2013, as you stated here, the State Statistics Institute presented a strategy for developing official statistics from 2013 to 2022 which defines mission, vision and general and specific strategic objectives of the Croatian statistical system. For the purpose of medium-term planning, a programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia has been developed, indicating the level of results of official statistics and the most important development activities to be achieved in the period 2018 to 2020. The annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year by the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. What's really crucial and what my colleague Schucker mentioned, so you said on page 8 that you weren't teamed up enough so with people, human resources, and what seems to me to be crucial is that your data that actually shows to us here is not the basis for any government's policies. I think it's yours and that one serious state, so it uses your data to account for that data that you're really giving us to run policies of the current and future Republic because these are projections that you're talking about, so you're talking about years to come, and that every serious state would therefore take this data seriously and actually direct policies according to your data. How important this is, therefore, and how important your activity is in terms of meaning, but your activity loses meaning if you and the Croatian Statistics Institute present the data, the word demographic image is such and such, I don't know in two, about 10 years there will be so much less of us, and the policy that the government is conducting will not be based on that information. Not only about demographics, but also about labour markets, where here we are now aware of how many are in Croatia, so how many workers are missing in Croatia. I think yours, so the waist predicted this situation statistically what would happen to the Republic of Croatia and that we could therefore, with one policy, prevent this situation. So not only about demographics but also economic indicators and labour markets. So I repeat again that I believe that statistical activity is important, but if this one is to be submitted only here these reports and if you will not be in close cooperation with the government and with all the ministries that must therefore compliment those areas that you have listed here, then we will commend that report of yours, we will say that it is concrete, and nothing will happen. And I repeat again, so here you are on the back page, and that's when the man reads, so he must be practically amazed at what he was dealing with, not all the problems, because if that's important to these laws that we're making right now. Therefore, a review of the total planned and carried out statistical activities in 2018 of demographic and social statistics. So you've included birth statistics, dead statistics, marriage statistics, divorce statistics, population projections, so one of the key statistics that requires all laws of practice to be planned, population assessment, internal population migration statistics. So we are, Croatia is a country that has this staticly working body where there is actually no fluctuation of labour because most of us are owners of some real estate, and here we are also in one deficit of external migration statistics of the population, so very important and preparation of activities for the census of the population of households and dwellings in 2020 until '21. The year that I'm afraid will be defeated. So in 2021, we'll finally find out how many people moved out of the Republic of Croatia, why he moved out, how much less he was born. Therefore, according to this official census statistics, projections of the economic i.e. need to be done again. policies to prevent this. You covered the labour market, so the labour force poll, the job-free research. So these are data that any government and any parliamentary representative can serve as a key preparation for the adoption of these important laws in this body. Annual survey on employees, monthly survey on employees and wages, so whether we have too low wages, that is why we do not have labour force, so these are all indicators that can be used for these quotas that we are talking about, which is a big debate on tourism. So these are all the data that we can use to better prepare the policies we're dealing with. Monthly research on workers in crafts and activities of free professions, so how many crafts are closed, how many small crafts Croatia currently has, how many people they employ, whether small crafts and medium crafts are the cover of the Croatian economy or whether they are at such extinction that they can no longer withdraw the Croatian economy. I'm talking again about the data that are key to this policy. Then education, therefore, is an annual report for kindergartens and other legal persons who implement preschool education programmes for the pedagogical year. So, as many of us have children who are in preschool education, some educational experts find it essential for education policy. So, we often consider pre-school education, let's say it's childcare, no, serious states consider pre-school education to be one of the key factors for otherwise educational policy in the Republic of Croatia. And now if we have information that I don't know so many kids outside of preschool education it's an alarm for implementing the education policy that we need to focus on. Annual primary school report, end of school year, beginning of school year. We had recently here in the media the inscription that this is very much of our primary school children this burdened pressure because of the grades, so this imperative 5.0 that exists, that a lot of children appear in children's psychiatrists and in daily hospitals, that a lot of pressure on these teachers, on children, on parents for these 5.0 and then by this statistics we can determine how much this 5.0 unreal average is, in fact, not the actual average, but it's the average of the pressure being put on parents. in professors, and then I don't know seriously, so the state sees that if 705 primary school children finish primary school with 5.0, and of those 70% in that high school are reduced to 10 or 15%, then one of those serious states is that disproportionate between 5.0 in primary school, in high school there's an alarm alarm and maybe in some way she's conducting some other education policy. I don't know, maybe it's a small graduation solution, so where these students would show knowledge so they got eight years of school, and it wouldn't be that much pressure on grades, or on some student who's 4.9 and who's got four or so from art or music, and that's why he can't go to math high school, and if there was a small graduation, he'd go to high school, so it wouldn't be that pressure, so maybe politics would lead to it again. Then the annual high school report, the end of the school year, the start of the school year, I know there's always autonomy from the university, and that when we're actually always talking about harmonising the education system with the labour market, but that's exactly what this data tells us, so these statistics on how many kids have completed vocational school, how much we need to compare it with the labour market, so the ratio of the child who finished high school and the ratio of those who lack the labour market to bring politics into line with these statistics that you listed. Then we have health care and safety here's a research on human resources in health, we all know how devastating the area is, and that we're going to have, by all statistics, not now, now we have a shortage of health workers, and in a few years it's going to be a huge problem. The research on material resources in health care, so I repeat again that these data should have been the basis for the law. Public health statistics on deaths, statistics on injuries at work, so when it's brought in, here we had some, I don't know, last year we had a labour law here. So, according to your statistics, we should create laws among other laws on labour statistics on occupational injuries, this statistics on professional diseases, a report on occupational diseases, also an important topic. Research into infectious epidemiology, so research into non-infectious epidemiology, research into health biology, cancer statistics with a cancer registry. So we're still, so here we are now in the process of developing a national anticancer strategy. So this particular data of yours is precisely the data for the production and the national strategies. A registry of treated addicts on psychoactive drugs, then a population income survey, a time survey. So how the Croats spend their time, so spare time. So every tourist employee would like to know that data so that they can focus their activities and their offers on this very thing. The European Integrated Statistics System, Social Protection, a model for net social protection. So I repeat again, so your data is worth it, I would like the government to use your data more and that we generally use your data in the Croatian Parliament because they are important in law making but it would not be good if they were just read here and left a dead letter on paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145030	Thank you. For individual participation in the debate, MP Boric reported, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145031	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. So here's something I want to say about this Annual Report of the 2018 Implementing Plan of Statistical Activities. I think the subject has yet caused interest because it is a good basis for the interest of those of us who need to discuss it. Because statistics are often said to be the exact sum of incorrect data and that it can fit almost anything inside. When politicians are caught mostly by the data depending on which position they are viewed from, if from opposition, then it is more or less a misstatement to obtain assurance and what is the only and most important value of that statistics is that it is, however, when the final sum tells a certain number that nothing can be objected to. So by looking at all this here, we must confirm that, regardless of all our efforts to verify Croatian institutions, we show that there is a system that is being upgraded year by year and which is better every year than it was last year and simply shows that it can meet the requirements set out in it as a priority. When we talk about institutions, the Bureau of Statistics is one of the total I think 9 institutions that we have in the Republic of Croatia as an independent administrative state organisation and we have seen that it has even a small number of financial resources, almost last year over 105 million kunas realized 95 million kunas, but what is visible from this report is the number of employees that apparently declines from year to year even though there has been a long-standing systemization as far as I saw from 2010 on 723 people who should be in that office. Currently, about 209 jobs are not filled in. And where we come after the Bureau of Statistics, and I think that every day we can go to their site, it's very updated, very well it can show almost all the activities that we need to be interested in depending on the time or the time of the year we're in. Anyway, here's what happens to tourism personally, what we have from statistics, what we had last year, we like to compare and many figures, some of them and some of them are listed in this report shows that we as a country are making progress regardless of what someone wants to talk about it one way or another. When a final figure is put in place, it is evident that the state has its progress path no matter what we are in one period and that was the period 2012/2015. were in some numbers that were pretty negatively almost many segments except when we look at a little more of the tourism. So we can determine that I don't know in 2009 we had total exports at 55.3 billion kuna and that last year it was 107.7 billion kuna. It's almost twice as many in 10 years. Can we do that if as a state, as a society, entrepreneurs, workers we are not making progress? I don't think that's possible. Is that enough, it's asking a question. It's also visible that we're importing something more. There are countries with which we work well, such as Italy, Germany, Slovenia. We export to Italy, I don't know more than 15 billion kunas a year, and we import more than 26 billion kunas of various goods from Germany. This is all visible and let us immediately compare in many areas from politics to the economy and all other activities that a society can carry out during a certain year. Why is statistics still important? So that there are certain barriers between us, i.e. to prove to us which one of us is more or less right here. When we look at a number of economic analysts, all of them there at the end of the year, agree and assess some growth based on their own statistics, and then it happens in 2019, and we all planned something, but statistics have shown that we missed a little bit, that this GDP growth in the first quarter of this year in 2019 was at 3.9% higher than the quarter of last year, which shows that something was happening in this society, that some of the activities were more withdrawn, that it might not have been possible to predict, that European funds obviously gave a certain level of efficiency and no matter what attempts to offend it, many today say that already the next quarter should be much more than it was last year and say even up to some 4.7%. So sometimes statistics can tell us, and surprise us, regardless of all the good numbers or the ones we want less to look at as good, so when we put all of this in one basket, that it causes a certain number that's important to us. We've often heard here that this government doesn't do anything about demographics, that something says in this report, let's read what it says about demographics, and when it comes to negative growth, there are beautiful graphs like it was in 1950, and as it was in 1980, 90 and today, the last year of some natural growth was in 1990, all of which we have more dead than born, but it'll show statistics for 2018, I see it locally because we have our own statistics and we know how many children are born on my island, let's say that last year we had 15 or 20 children more born than a year ago. For what reason, it may and may be much more explained why it happened but to realize it only to the level of politics or what the government has done, I think it is not only and correct because many local self-governments have a number of incentive measures, different ways, trying to help this particular segment of our society, meaning demographics as an important part of our people's survival, and in that segment I don't think there's, say, a local self-government that didn't come up with at least some measure in accordance with its own financial ability to reward something but the state does. Let's remember the increase in, I don't know, maternity benefits, the extension of the length of maternity benefits, let's not know, the program that suddenly begins to build over 500 kindergartens because it has proved to be the need of parents who want to work but also have children to take care of them somewhere, we have a number of other options and let's just say that nothing happened, is actually the sum of those incorrect data that ultimately gives politicians bad statistics. Or when we're saying, I don't know, CNB reports, it's often said, here I say attacks, but there are numbers very exact, it's clear what's going on inside our financial system, or when we talk about the Ministry of Finance, the Minister himself who was being attacked, so we see what happened to GDP growth. This sum of incorrect data we used to listen to when I was in opposition, between 2012 and 2015, when they told us that even the fall could be growth. So as we fell from 2012, 2013, 2014, they said that every year we were falling less but that it was actually growth and no one had the strength then to admit that it was a bad government that had not hit politics with its own, economic policy and economic absolutely nothing, and that something had started to happen only in the last year of office and such a government. And by comparing that with this government that has growth in 2017 and 2018, it is evident that there are those who can do better, different, better quality but also those who have tried to cloud through statistics many of the activities they were doing back then, the growth of public debt, visible how much it was in just a few years. 2015 debt 83.7% of GDP, 2018. 74.6%, the share of debt in GDP is reduced by almost 10% points, if it's government business, I think that yes, should someone be told he's doing his job well, I think he is. Why would it be good when we're in debt and it's growing out of control and it's been great and we're always listening here and what's going on in the other direction is that something's going down, that we're getting rid of or reducing public debt, well, that's wrong, that needs to be changed. I think in these segments, statistics do the best work, just move those who don't know or think they know and don't know from those who simply can and know and show it precisely through their activities and numbers. I mean, we're going to support this report, and we think that this office still needs even more of these employees in the future, but the better statistics to keep politics clean.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145032	Thank you. Ante Babic's representative reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145033	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Boric, you say that statistics can be interpreted as fit or fit, as you say, however, the statistics you can read and from this annual report are related to social, economic, business data, macroeconomic data and a number of other data and they are actually serving analysts, they are actually serving the government to improve or correct its policy because life is not static and it is related to a series of factors that can change it from economy, finance, health, agriculture and forestry, and you said well, the State Statistics Institute had a series of statistics that showed negative and bad trends, but the Kukuriku coalition did not take this seriously, and therefore had such bad data as it had during its term of office, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145034	Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145035	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić, because here we are looking at the story of tourism, I haven't said anything about it, but we entered the pre-season, but the high pre-season, the beginning of the tourist season itself and the visible thing that happened to us, means the first 5 months. Okay, in the 5th month. bad weather, etc., and all these economic analysts say we've lost 700 000 overnight stays, the question is what this tourist year will be like, will be good for us, will be good for us, will be bad for us, will be worse than last year etc. It is a warning to all that obviously something is happening on the tourist market and that those who are engaged in tourism choose to react n way that either at the last minute something is doing or that they are preparing themselves in a different way for next year, simple statistics show that we can make up for the total accommodation capacity that crosses over a million and 200,000 accommodation units, this minus 700,000 can be compensated from 2 days to 6 months. And that would kind of come down to what happened last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145036	Thank you. Representative Ivan Shuker reported for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145037	Thank you very much. My colleague Boric, three weeks ago. Here at the High House, we discussed a report on the use of European funds. Two weeks ago. The State Statistics Institute published data on GDP developments for the first quarter compared to the first quarter of the previous year, the result is excellent. I in this assembly of no MPs except that on behalf of the club they asked for one break and they would point it out, I didn't hear him talk about it, as if it were something that, taboo theme, can't be talked about. And one of the main reasons for such high economic growth in the first quarter compared to last year is among other investments financed from European funds. Well, now if this publication by the State Statistics Office is what it is, then what I can say is that those who have criticised that there is a disaster, that's why the report and the data of the State Statistics Institute are very important that we don't embarrass ourselves here and talk about anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145038	Thank you, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145039	Thank you very much, colleague Shuker, I agree with you because when we have just pointed out that part in the debate because on the other hand, when the time of that final final means the realisation of the funds in terms of the withdrawal of funds, and it has constantly succeeded this government that has inherited certain levels that have made the previous and all rise to the highest possible level of agreement and realization, that that last part would be the final, i.e. the withdrawal of the funds themselves when all the projects that have been agreed have been completed in order to be able to withdraw certain funds and this has started to happen and will take place in 2019 even more than in 2018. Whether it took time to conduct the competition, the time to negotiate, the time to implement the projects and the finale means to charge. Everyone now sees that we should have already not been able to charge all the 10 billion we had at our disposal, and we can do this by 2023 and I firmly believe that we will because the 70 billion or more that is at our disposal is the benefit that we get from joining the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145040	Thank you. Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145041	Thank you very much Chairman, colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the club MOST, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes because the statistical indicator made by the Statistical Office speaks about the situation of the Republic of Croatia. We see here praises, however, we would have to look at the picture here realistically and say that we have never again imported food products, we have approached up to 3 billion euros in food products, we are a tourist country, we are not taking care of agriculture, that at this point here the recent amendment was in Vrgorec, in the peak field is flooding, we have no irrigation systems, we have no so that Slavonia is empty, we have no agriculture, we have no food production except that we import products, we increase imports, we import products in the tourist season from GMO products and uncontrollable and harmful products or other countries. When we look at only the livestock fund, here's the dairy we had before we got into the EU, people who were dealing with dairy 64 000, now we have under 5,000 and we import about 80% of dairy products while we boast at the same time that we're going to export milk to China. The number of students in schools compared to 2016 is less than 3145, which means 150 classes are less enrolled in students' schools. When we talk about Slavonia, about 2/3 of Croatia, Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorski kotar, then we need to learn from this that it is not enough to promise as a Split government, in Split projects for the Dalmatian Zagora and remain only on it, so any government must learn from this, and say that in the area only the Dalmatian Zagora, in the last 30 years half the population and more. And as for the European funds, just at the bottom, 17% withdraw funds, we need to take lessons out of this, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145042	Time's up, thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145043	You don't need to turn your eyes, Mr. Chairman. So let me, I beg you nicely, let me speak [[/Intruder Petrov: Please, Mr. Schucker, which article is the violation of the Rules of Procedure?]] Well, apparently when I left, then you started interrupting me. [[Intruder Petrov: Well, of course I'll let you just say which article.]] So you violated Article 3(5), which states that the time-limit laid down by this Rules of Procedure for the meeting and consultation of the Club is a representative on the item of the established agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. What my colleague Bulj was talking about, find me in these materials, good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145044	Thank you. Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145045	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleague Shuker hurt Article 238, because he is clearly looking at Croatia with other eyes and he would like us MPs to say what he wants us to do. We are the ones who propose, who want good to Croatia, we come from these parts and I think we have the right to speak and that the Rules of Procedure is not hurt by the fact that the team has earned a minimum of one warning but, well, no thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145046	Thank you. Representative Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I would like to request a 10-minute recess in order to comment once more on this report by the State Statistics Office. According to the data presented by the State Institute and represented by the State Secretary for Finance at the Ministry of Finance, the Republic of Croatia has shown that during the reporting period, the Republic of Croatia has shown itself to be more orderly than before the HDZ Government assumed responsibility for Croatia's leadership. According to all macroeconomic indicators that talk about GDP growth, which talk about the surplus of the state budget, which talk about the number of employees, who talk about the number of unemployed, who talk about wage growth, which talk about reducing the tax press in Croatia, etc., it is evident that this government is working on the arrangement of Croatia as an organised, organised state. More than anything in this report shows that the Republic of Croatia has shown by reducing public debt, that the Republic of Croatia is increasing and growing GDP, that the Republic of Croatia has shown in a row with the surplus of the state budget in 2 years that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown that it is able to manage public finances and for this reason I would particularly point out that this has contributed to the rise of the rating, the investment rating to the level of investment ratings. So, and for all of these reasons, we're still going to discuss it at the HDZ Club, give full support to this report, and what we're going to say about that, I'm going to do that in an individual debate, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145048	Mr. Schooker, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145049	I didn't ask, but I'm glad you told me, too, I didn't ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure but Mr. Chairman Mr. Chairman, you've told me nicely, then I'll take advantage of that business opportunity. [[Intruder Petrov: Excuse me if you did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, all right.]] You've hurt the Rules of Procedure again. You hurt him the first time you didn't react to your colleague Bulja, and now you've hurt Article 238, and in another way you've disrupted the work of the session because if you'd responded to your colleague Bulja, then your colleague Bačić wouldn't have thought to speak, but when a man saw that he could speak and spread in this House, then he used it to say it on behalf of the club. [[Intruder Petrov: Free]] So it's up to you, not him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145050	Thank you. Your time is up. I see Mr. Shucker is a bit of a joke to you after all, and in fact, you're indirectly telling him that your club president doesn't actually know his job. I will, regardless of that indirect message of yours, approve a 15-minute break, and here I hope that in a constructive spirit we will continue the debate. It's 10.55 p.m. Next thing you know, we're back to work at 11.10. Representative Branko Bačić reported on the individual participation in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145052	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I certainly support this report by the National Statistics Institute, which is the main coordinator of statistical data collection in the Republic of Croatia. I welcome the work of the State Institute and what I would first of all like to say, and that is that the report clearly shows how wide a range of data processed by the State Statistics Institute is because, as the reports show, it covers 5 important, most important areas covered by all activities in society and in the state. So from demographic and social statistics, macroeconomic statistics, business statistics, agriculture statistics, forestry and fisheries and statistics for several areas, which again includes a wide range of data processed in the State Statistics Institute. I must therefore say that I am a little surprised by the fact that for a long time the State Institute has been warning me about the problem of filling up the staff and that, compared to 2010, 2011, there is a smaller number of employees, that 723 jobs have been systematised in the office itself, that 507 are employed and that there are 216 employees missing from the office itself or 30%. When evaluating the extent of the work of the Institute, how important data of the Institute is then it is very important for me to approach the filling of these jobs but I say almost every third employee in the office is missing. I very often believe that I am not the only representative in the Croatian Parliament who almost daily goes to the website of the Department of Statistics itself, almost, I am a technical profession, so my data, mathematical data is close and in college there was one subject of statistics to me. I do not believe that going to an assembly representative is a serious debate particularly regarding areas that are being processed by the State Statistics Office can prepare a serious debate without using data from the State Statistics Office, at any time on economic issues, when it talks about health care, about the labour market, when it comes to construction, agriculture, fisheries, forestry, about demographics, about all the topics that are being touched by this Chamber of Serious Discussion as preparation and the basis are served by the data of the State Statistics Office. As we are here in the Parliament and politicians often share the same data in a different way. Someone said that statistics are a set of irrelevant data or that it's like bikinis, that it hides important and unimportant. I disagree with that, and I think that if we properly access and analyze the data that makes us available to the State Statistics Office, then we can talk fairly relevantly about the state of the individual... in a particular area in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am personally and most important and most often enter them, these are data that talk about macroeconomic indicators in the Republic of Croatia. So also from this report and from the ongoing monitoring of the work of the Institute and its data, I think that we pay the most attention to one of the most important elements and indicators of the state, which is when I talk about the economic sector, when I talk about public finances, when I talk about the state budget as the most important act brought on the annual level by the Croatian Parliament is the growth data, i.e. the fall of GDP. We are witnessing that the State Statistics Institute, only two days after the elections held for the European Parliament, gave one piece of information on GDP growth in Croatia in the first quarter of this year, which was one of the largest in the EU, which clearly showed that the State Statistics Institute is holding its own deadlines and parameters, and did not publish this information in an election campaign which might have been gladly thrown out by the ruling party in Croatia, but I am telling the State Statistics Office the day after the elections published one piece of information on the success and work of the government and the better state of the economy in Croatia. This data on GDP growth is not just a mere data, it emerges as, it sublimes major generators that talk about export growth or decline in imports, talks about wage growth, talks about retail trade growth, talks about investment growth. What is to single out is that in the first quarter of this year, investment growth relative to last year was 11.2%, which is important when we talk about GDP growth in Croatia last year which was 2.6 and which in this year is 3.9 or which the Economic Institute in Croatia assumes is based on data that defines GDP, growth of these April generators and may expect a significant increase in GDP growth in Croatia in the second quarter but to return to the fact that 11.2% of investment growth is based mainly when we talk about public investment on the funds of European funds, 80% of all investment in the public sector is based on the funds that Croatia receives from European funds, and thus we can talk about which benefits in Croatia when we talk about Croatia's membership in the EU. The second information that is important for this government and for this administration and the Ministry of Finance speaks about the handling of public finances through the smart management of the Republic of Croatia's budget, both expenditure and revenue. The fact is, since '97. or in 2017, Croatia did not record the surplus or surplus of the state budget, and that surplus was 0.8% of GDP and that in 2018, despite the fact that the guarantee provided by Croatia for certain new constructions in Uljanik was almost 4 billion kuna, the surplus or surplus of the state budget was 0.2%. So with the fact that the public debt of Croatia is decreasing and that at this point it is 74% of GDP and that in 2016 we had more than 85 or 86% of Croatia's public finances situation, the management of public finances in Croatia has been brought to that extent that Croatia's credit rating has been returned to the level of investment rating, which further allowed the finance minister to issue bonds whose reduced costs will be half a billion kuna. So, about this data we can talk about how and how the government manages Croatia. This is why, in my opinion, objective statistics are devoid of our ideological worldview that are solely based on data provided by relevant institutions in Croatia, including the CNB, etc., everything that is written in this report, speak about the need to speak of clear glasses without dioptria, left, right, I do not know which and what kind of data we are talking about, about the state of the Croatian economy and we are talking about the state of the Croatian society. I was there to prepare a few data that spoke about what Croatia was 4 years ago and what Croatia was today, that in the mandate of the SDP government we were in charge of 70 billion kuna, that we increased, that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia was in charge of 17 000 and that now in the work of this Government we are on... debunks every Croatian citizen for 900 kuna [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The data we can read from this report, here's a thank you. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145053	Representative Bačić Representative Marija Jelkovac asked for a replica. [[Intruder Bačić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145054	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague here you have spoken about the importance of statistical data and regarding the creation of economic policies, but I think it is also very important to monitor certain statistical data, as well as with regard to the staff we are studying, I think it is very important that when we are now and in the reform of education, we take care of what people need for the future so that we do not create a workforce that is unemployable and at the same time have to increase the quotas for imports of the labour force that is missing on the market. There are also a number of areas that we need to follow in order to know what we need to build and invest in, for example. how old the population will be over 10 or 15 years old, whether we have enough capacity to accommodate and care for those elderly and powerless persons and, of course, as regards demographic policy on the number of children's age to know whether to invest in kindergarten Or something, thank you. [[Intruder Petrov: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145055	Time's up, thanks. Replica response, MP Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So respected colleagues Jelkovac, many sectors are included in this report, you mentioned one part and there's another part of education, there's health care, there's agriculture, there's fishing. What I use very often, I observe, I analyze from government data, it's data in construction. Namely, construction data, according to the number of building permits issued, the volume of construction works, on the number of construction workers, are generally reflected in the general situation in the economy because there is no growth of the economy in any country without the growth of construction. Construction is one sector that promotes a number of other activities and as indicators in construction grow, GDP rise. When the data on construction is dropping, the data on the general indicator or growth or GDP declines are dropping, so these data are best talking about growth at the time... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145057	You're out of time, Agent Bacic. A representative of Anka Mrak Taritash also appeared for individual participation in the debate, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145058	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Statistics are extremely important, there is no activity, there is no branch, there is no strategy, there is no action plan that will go as a consequence of this strategy, which is not based on statistical data. Statistical data are figures and now, of course, they, we all have a tendency to read them in some different ways, it's like that glass that's half with water and someone's reading it, or someone's saying it's half full, and someone's saying it's half empty. But this is the figure you need to analyze, which you need to take care of and play games that always work by ruling and opposition no matter who it is that the ruling try everything that's good to show as good, and the opposition is trying to point out that it's not exactly like that. But in this debate, I'm not going to use that play, I'm going to really talk about the importance of that data. There's not one like I said branches that don't base on it. I'm a space planner by walk-in. When you start doing any spatial plan, the first thing you take and the first thing you do is use statistical data. Use the subject of how many inhabitants, how many industries you have, what the communal equipment is and a number of other things. All the spatial plans in Croatia that were made there last century were based and were built until 2000 because in 2000 it was a year that was very, very interesting. It was a sign of a spatial plan of the City of Zagreb, which was then built on the option that millions of people would live in the city. He doesn't live in the City of Zagreb. The living 780,000 inhabitants lived there somewhere before the end of the last century, about maybe 10 thousand up there, living down there today. But these statistics are important for the simple reason when you plan to develop a country, when you plan at all where you're going to invest, you need to see what trends are, where people live more, where they decide to live, where people work, how you should even plan a certain municipal infrastructure. I can say, that's where tourism was mentioned. There used to be 70s there last century was the highest construction related to tourism and then tourism was planned hotels in a way that the capacity in the rooms was towards the beach surface as much as it could be towels. It was known that the area of the towel is, say, 80 times a meter, as many towels as you can put so many people on the beach and you can have so many beds in the rooms. And that was used, they used absolutely statistical data. Today, when you plan tourism, they use different types of tourism, and the data is still about the number of nights and people who come the same. So when we are even discussing any strategy and any development strategy, then really all of us should take all the numbers at all. They are well-analyzed and based on this work of strategy. We are very happy to talk about this because you can speak affirmatively so no matter which side of this assembly you are sitting on, but we forget about them as often as we do. When I went to elementary school, there was a concept in the white plague geography textbook. So that was, the white plague was a reduction in the population. Therefore, the reduction in the number of population in Croatia has not been since yesterday. It's been there since the middle of the century. But what's alarming at this point is it's alarming that people who were evicted in the '60s were basically parents working, kids were staying here with their grandparents and they knew they'd come back and build a house, that they'd invest in their children. This is how it comes to you when it comes to Zagreb. Long Village and Sesvete, that's where the houses of all those who worked elsewhere started and invested here. That process we have today is leaving young people and they're not coming back. But from these statistics, we need to read the following, how much the working population needs to be able to keep the pension system in Croatia, so that health care can work in Croatia, so that education can function in Croatia. Because without a certain number of working populations, that's not possible. Well, it wasn't Mrs. Merkel in Germany that opened the borders at one hour because she was so broad in heart that everyone came, but because she became aware she couldn't maintain a system without people working. This is equally read from statistical data and needs to be read now. When we talk about demographics, they're not demographic measures in a way to see how many newborns they're going to be. Demographic measures are also measures to see if you simply need to introduce labour in one area. You can introduce this workforce once for one process, but you can also be an open country and tell us they are acceptable for young families to come. So, a series of things. I'd like to mention two other things that are extremely important. We can also often mention the way we use the European Union funds. One of the projects that we were immediately prepared for when we entered the European Union were to solve wastewater disposal because it was a relatively simple project, it was a type project, they were purifiers. And then when it applied, some of those projects didn't go through. Why? Because they were wrong, the population was even applied to the wrong number. So you applied to the number of residents who were unrealistic. When someone was doing an analysis of all this he said you were doing a wastewater purifier, for who? Because a purifier to work, then you have to be functional if you don't have enough wastewater, you have to flush clean water to make it work. So, it's all based on the statistical data we're giving. If you have a settlement that has 2,000 inhabitants, and you're going to apply with a purifier project for 6 thousand inhabitants this says unreal and rejects. So the data reads everything. The way we read, read, and someone else. And there's one topic to talk about now, because if you're going to talk in 5 or 10 years about some things it's going to be too late, and the topic is climate change. This is a topic which is also the prelude when the secretary of state spoke then he talked about both meteorology and data that are in statistics, which is: an increase in temperature, changes that occur with the increase in so-called hot days, since we no longer have four classical seasons, that the plant and animal world will change, and that some things should change equally here, from the fact that there are no more cultures, and there should be something else, it is all read from statistical data. So, we will, of course, support this report, this report is good, correct, in line with all of those basic subjects of the profession made, but what we need to use this statistical data is for a new strategy of agriculture, for a new strategy of traffic development, or for improving the existing strategy of the development of certain infrastructures, you read it all from these data, because if you decide to invest somewhere where you actually know there is no need, with what to be fair to the end, often, and no matter what you see and when you put it in an economic category, then you have no justification, but some country decides to do, and beyond that for the simple reason it wants to develop a certain part of it. If we had used only the data we had for the number of vehicles going on the highways, we wouldn't have built the highway to Split yet if we had only taken those categories and it had been done, and what the highway to Split was well done, excellently that it was made, it could be an economic stopper like, but it could only be the moment when we have people there, because without people you can plan whatever you want, but without people, it won't be. There's also two things that I'm in, you know, you have some things that you're sure of, and when your parents tell you that something in life will go away, but then you think you can do it yourself, so my mom has a saying I told you, I find myself more and more often to tell you I told you. The railroad. The railway will be one of the key elements of Croatia's development, until 2027 Europe will work a series of benefits, if today you look at rail needs from the statistical data as much as it drives, it would certainly not be based on them, but should be based on something else. So, in conclusion, statistics are extremely valuable, using them, but sometimes some decisions are made in the sense that we need to know how we want to develop this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145059	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mrak-Taritash. He had replicas, a respected colleague, Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145060	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. So, how much of the City of Zagreb uses statistical data shows my neighborhood of Spain, therefore, it is the settlement that may have spread the most in the City of Zagreb, so very many young families with lots of children and schools where I worked, Ante Kovačić is currently working in three shifts, so three shifts. So the children are at school until eight o'clock in the evening, and the City of Zagreb was not planning to build a single elementary school in that neighborhood. So there's no plan, there's no useful data being used, it's a verse, on the other hand, we have schools that are in the city center, which are empty, maybe there's a school going to be working there, so kindergarten, so there's no plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145061	Thank you. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145062	Thank you very much for your question, colleague Sladolev. The city of Zagreb, our sorrow. We have a mayor who's very specific, and who says that he, now I'm going to change a little bit, that he deserves a Ph.D. at Oxford, Cambridge in the way he manages the city, so that he and in that sense there's no need for statistical data, no discipline to say, he makes his own decisions as to what and where. So, yes, and it boasts six mandates, the result of one mayor and his six mandates should be one-way classes in all primary schools in the City of Zagreb, but you should deal with this, you know one thing is promised not to, and the other one is to be dealt with, and you're really right. My kids went to elementary school in the middle of town, when he was older, the difference was eight years, and when the older son went, there were four classes with 28 students, when he was younger, he went to one class with 21 students, and that's reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145063	Thank you. The next replica is a respected colleague of Steve Culey's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145064	Your Honor. According to statistics in Croatia, half the citizens eat peas, half eat sausage. Statistically everyone eats peas with sausage. Statistical data shows when you go to IKEA one brush costs ten kunas, plastic, then it progresses further, and it's twenty, thirty, forty, but there's one brush that also in Gunji is used, it costs 280 kuna, it's the darkest brush. When a square renovation in Gunja costs EUR 1.700,00, in Gunja, in the last street where the bus turns in Gunja, where the forest, where it goes further, is EUR 1.700,00 square, and in Zagreb it is 2,000.00 in the penthouse square of that apartment so statistically and it would be statistics, we can share it and we will get some results. Statistically, 840 thousand Croatian citizens were robbed in...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145065	Thank you, colleague Culey. Thank you. Answer, colleague of the Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145066	Thank you very much, dear colleague, for this replica of yours. By now, when it came to the six-populated Cvelferia, I mostly kept my mouth shut because I waited for certain processes to end, unfortunately for you, they ended up in a way that you didn't expect. Six thousand kunas have been invested by the state in the restoration of Cvelferia, only an example for your sake is one and a half Zagreb Rotor. From August 2014 to the end of 2015, 37 public purpose buildings were renovated, 1090 buildings were renovated, of which 288 completely, these remained, and all the state gave for it gave 600 thousand kuna, and it is precisely seen how much is which square where it cost and how it cost and no one took anything away, everything is there. Go close to you, go through and see that this part is restored in a way that the whole part looks much, much better than it did before, and now I'm really going to use it every time to show that it's a great project.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145067	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145068	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, statistical indicators are essentially the standard of where we are, mathematical indicators that can be read, I agree with what both colleagues have said and from positions and opposition, these are indicators that you can look at side by side with both medals. However, where is reality? These statistical indicators would cause certain measures. What's the measure? So when we look here today, just here are demographic measures that don't bring results. We colleagues see that the ruling praise here with numerous indicators in 2018, however, they do not listen to Mr. Strmoth. That it is not enough to boast,.../incomprehensible/... to look at a certain space, which is 2/3 of Croatia if we look at demographic measures that are empty. And these measures must affect stopping what is happening in the Republic of Croatia. I can only say that in those 2/3 of Croatia I will now go to.../incomprehensible/... where I come from it is the area of the Dalmatian Burn, speaking from Krka to Neretva. So I'm gonna narrow it down a little bit now, and we're gonna go to the Cetinski end. The Cetina area is a vast area larger than Međimurje County. The Cetin area was an area that was in the '90s. in the year 68,000 inhabitants. In 2011, there were 48,000 inhabitants, which means 20,000 less. According to the 2021 statistics, only this census is going to be, we have about 40,000 people, which means it's a huge decline. And even when I look at the Cetina region in Dalmatia, the Cetina region is even the capital of Sinj, and it's not some big fall, but that's why the fall of the entire Dalmatian mountain is. What measures are they tribbing? Well, of course, the tribule law for a particular area that will leave these people to live in that area. And when it was the Hill and Mountain Act, I have proposed one measure here, this measure is very important. So right now, we're actually more of a measure, but let's say that two are important. So we have a current problem in the Republic of Croatia which 161 local self-government does not have the ability to open, secure a child's kindergarten, it's a statistical indicator, 160 means we have extra municipalities and cities. That's a fact. How do you regulate that? Triba finds the best model that children have the right to enroll in kindergarten and that's ours, to enroll in kindergarten because for parents to survive. So 100, 1/3 of local self-government has no ability to open one kindergarten for one child. Another very important measure is the workplace. How to secure the lower workplace in Gorski Kotar, Dalmatia Zagora, Slavonia? Well taxes, make it easier for a tribune to make it easier for a tribune for 5 years that there is no tax or only a certain tax, if the triba 2, 3. That's what we're talking about, that this businessman who works in Zagreb has, in Zagreb because yet Zagreb is the only area, it's hard to talk about, but the only area along with certain other cities and swimming pools is to secure the meaning of jobs. How do you secure them? Without a job, you won't have a man down, no kindergarten, no job. Local self-governments are poor in order to fight in such a way as to ensure all of this because local self-government must create preconditions and, of course, that the centralised state, depending on the local leader of the central state, and that it must be courted, it has to make things beautiful, it has to be, and it means with this decentralisation, the state is in debt until 2020. Croatia provides children's kindergartens for 90% of children. So, it's signed in Barcelona, and the European Commission then brought that 90% of kindergartens will be provided by 2020. And you see in us 1/3 local self-government has no power, no financial capacity for one child. There's this chief, his deputies, his secretary, he's got the asphalting ahead of the election, he's got everything, but it's not enough to just asphalt the pre-election and bring in, say, members of the government to boast. Is what? So we're tribbing a mental set of prominates first, we're not allowed to create local leaders, or locals depending on measures, government social measures. And how? By opening jobs, let's say once they don't trim taxes for entrepreneurs in these areas, for 5 years, for 3 years, for a year, so you'll see the fathers of the economic zone come to life and whether people will be employed. It's a measure. The central state must think so, not promise as it was in Split, I mean, they promised a number of verticals, and today we have no problem watering the Sinj field, a clear, clean river Cetina, and that is why we are going to import, here are the statistics, to import more food products that are harmful, which are GMOs, which no one controls in the tourist season. Instead of being from Sinjsko polje, Vrgoraksko polje, Drniško polje, this product is to be placed as an additional value in our tourist season. The domestic product, and cannot depend when in the Vrgorak field there is a flood. People deal with vineyarding, fruit growing, and of course competition then the import lobby kills that. So there must be measures, and there is no measure. The steep gentleman said well, there are no measures, these are all PR measures, PR messages, they are not enough in these areas. Is like I said, here in the Republic of 2016 in the school year 2016/17. 42,197 students were enrolled, and 38,710 were enrolled 2018/19. which means 3:45 children less. What's he saying? That even when compared to that year, that year when those children were born, it was evident that those children had moved out, that their parents had left, which is 150 classes, and especially when we talk about Dalmatian Zagora, Gorski Kotar and Slavonia. So we must have certain measures that are clearly visible. Let's just say that when I proposed free textbooks in the county, we had already solved that in Sinj, we were also working notebooks, then they said it was populism. But if it got rid of him in Sinj, then the mayor was forced to get rid of it, and now we have free textbooks. Well, of course, the Dalmatian Zagora must have free textbooks solved in order for parents to stay if free textbooks are solved in Zagreb. Well, of course we have to, so I mean, where's the poorer population where you expect it to be, you have to get rid of it. So the state has to subsidize to local self-government to secure kindergartens, I'm talking about poor local self-government. Simple measures must exist. So, the workplace and the measures to ensure that children can have enrolment in kindergarten and, of course, education that is provided, and not in this way we have less and less soot in chimneys because they shut down hearths. So these measures are very important, and of course when we talk about this problem, we're talking about health care. Well, it can't happen that in the Cetinj region at one point we only have one pediatrician per 3 and a half thousand people, and there should be one in Trill, 3 in Sinj. So according to the Department of Public Health, we have to have so many pediatricians. And you don't have a pediatrician and that parent has to drive her child to Split and... Of course we don't have a radiologist. [[You don't understand.]] What does that mean? Yeah, and the county didn't use those decentralised funds. It's mostly visible in my county where money centralized goes away for a whole other thing, and it didn't leave for specialization. In 10 years, no specialization of an example for the Cetin area has been set, and I said how much is the area. So that's a huge area of Dalmatian burn. That's right, in the Imot region, here's my colleague Babic knows. People emigrate because their state is being re-centralised and then the projects they've been promised are being promised every four years. But they're not just enough asphalting projects, but jobs. To enable an entrepreneur to have much better conditions in these areas than to say where the areas are developed and for 5 years. And when an entrepreneur shows up down there, when he finds out, people stay because they see that they have jobs they're sure as hell not going to go to Ireland, they'll definitely get a bigger salary there because they won't have it and they'll be more competitive. So we must have concrete measures. We're saying that these statistical indicators are not the time to boast. It's not praise time economic growth when we see that the real state... Half the school is empty. [[You don't understand.]] We see it. It doesn't matter which political option we set out in by Kamensky or the Civilians. We always think the same thing. So the Knin area is catastrophic, but me and Knin feel like my city for 13 years I worked in the army working up. It's a rapid fall. It's a dodgy place. We have potential. We have opportunities, however, to measure the state, no matter how much we boast, how much tax redistribution still has been re-centralised. And the projects that are promised aren't enough to have just meetings of the government and to promise. We must ensure that the young man has a job, that he has a secure kindergarten, that what he has in Zagreb has that and in undeveloped areas. And if we do these measures then we all get together regardless of the majority or either in the opposition we'll be sure to be happy because people will stay in that area and not go anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145069	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145070	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Bulj, you spoke of a demographic issue really a key issue, or a challenge for Croatia today. However, did you know that the official government projection of the demographic development of the Republic of Croatia is actually a projection of the demographic collapse? We can see it in an energy strategy where it says that by 2050, the number of inhabitants will fall to 3,05 to 3,2 million people, which we know is already long before it means demographic collapse. It is interesting that the minister in charge of my parliamentary question has been declared incompetent because, as a matter of fact, it is an energy strategy which is absurd. So we don't have a demographic policy that would try to change these tendencies poorly demographically.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145071	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145072	If this is in the energy strategy that we're going to have 3 million people, then it's a message from the government that there are no demographic measures, but there are anti-demographic measures. Because she also had to develop demographic measures through this energy strategy. That's what we gave through the law club bridge independent lists of... where they would make it easier for people in these areas to have good energy independent families. [[You don't understand.]] Unfortunately, that's not accepted. So we're talking about solar panels that would be on the roofs of houses, institutions, kindergartens. It would be easier on local self-government, health care. However, they mean this measure where they say in the strategy that 3 million people will actually have anti-demographic measures and will obviously encourage harmful energy projects that will not affect the survival of the family in this area and the independence of the family in this case, energy independence of the family. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145073	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145074	Thank you very much. Well, I've been hearing from you all morning that there are demographic measures that are not adopted or that this government won't implement, and apparently this demographic you're always talking about that got the chance within this government to do its job, but he decided to leave for his reasons. So now I'm interested in whether you can tell me what kind of measure he's proposing, or whether you know them when you're talking about it, so we can all find out. Because the fact is, I haven't heard them yet. I've already listened to him several times in various interviews, but I haven't heard exactly what it is, not to mention the maternity benefits that have been increased, not to mention I don't know the job opening. And today, 3,000 additional permits for importing labour, kindergartens that are under construction, not to mention what local self-government is doing, compensation for newborn children etc., etc. Free textbooks that have been going since this year, but let's see what some new three measures we don't know that we finally find out that they don't all come down to criticism and we know but we won't tell you. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145075	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145076	I've been following Mr. Streck, Mr. Akrap and Mr. Stromota a lot, and I appreciate that they are respected demographers and that they have measures that we should serve in politics to carry out. I can say what I suggested about the textbook, I gave the amendment here two years ago that wasn't accepted, I gave it to the Hill and Mountain Law and... the areas I also listed among other things, to be meant for kindergartens, to ensure for entrepreneurs that they do not have taxes as... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The area of this 2/3 Republic of Croatia, unfortunately I was told better then that Zagora did not give birth to me from the minister of the current. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So on my proposals that were concrete and that I read from what Mr. Stromota says, that jobs are very important and give important survival to people and that families also have kindergartens and education, that for their children they can provide in this area, unfortunately this government has not spent and what Mr. Stromota said should be taken seriously but Mr. Akrap and Sterc, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145077	I thank my colleague. Next replica of respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145078	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj, I'm in shock with our sentence that in Croatia we have extra municipalities and cities. You tell me to come rationalization, would the city of Split, Solin, Sibenik, Vodice or some municipality from Dalmatia or Cetinska Zagora be abolished? I think after that sentence of yours, all those residents of these municipalities will say, "Come on, don't help us anymore." Aren't they the closest to the problems of the region, are they, too, secure jobs? And as for these governments, colleagues have already numbered different measures and as far as financial contributions are concerned, you know very well how much your municipality and the city of Cetinska and Dalmatia are given through the last tax reform. In the area of Croatia, more than 2 billion kunas have blended right into municipalities and cities that needed and of course needed our help. Don't help these municipalities and cities of Cetin and Dalmatia anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145079	Thank you, Comrade Bull, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145080	I would tell you colleagues briefly that you live, you really are not in reality, here you come from the same constituency, so ask your colleague Šipić how many empty schools we have, all the measures that are good, I will commend them, I will support them and I was talking about it, however the fact that when there was only one municipality in the Cetina region, that there were more inhabitants. I'm not saying that it may be necessary to shut down and how many employees, deputies, commissioners, vehicles, congregations, councils and no kindergartens are provided enough space, not only in the Cetina region, but in the entire Dalmatian area. So you don't live in reality, here you are in my constituency, tell me in the back of yours, how much food has been fed recently? 70% of the population is less. Don't help that end any more because you've destroyed that end of your measures for the last 20 years, no measure, look at the results, look at the results. Just the results. ... You burned the land of the Dalmatian Zagora. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145081	I thank my colleague. Next debate, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145082	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I think this debate went a little bit in the wide, wrong direction, but I'd like to answer that, for example. To all these findings about demographics, she said that everyone as parents should tell their children, children need at least three children, each of us, I'm not relevant, I have two but to achieve something so we must have more than simple reproduction. And this is what would somehow help this demographic breakdown, which is not only happening in Croatia but also in other countries of Europe and the world, but we return to the statistics that are also talking about it, namely in this plan, the statistical one that uses many data sources in the programme, including data collected through bodies such as the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency, HZJZ, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture and similar. We have to note that let's just say HZZ for 19 statistical activities to monitor the movements and state of health in our country and certain segments, let's say that statistics are very well served so that we can then channel the ways and models of prevention and also treatment. I'd like just one brief review when we talk about this very demographic on the example of my Zadar County talk about how many students were enrolled in the first grade that had them etc. And now that we look at the state of 2017 and 2008 of the pedagogical year, then 1637 first-borns are enrolled in my county, which is only 14 children less than the previous year. So it's not so bad, it's less, but it's not so worrying. So, what does it matter to say the same? That in the area of the city of Zadar, about 900 first-graders are enrolled every year and preschools themselves have so much and they are covered through urban kindergartens, through private kindergartens, through religious kindergartens. It is important to note that investments in these schools in kindergartens are also as high as possible and that in this way, policies conducted by the city and co-financing and pre-schoolers, as well as programmes in primary education help parents to live as best as possible in our area and that each other, third or next child, when using these institutions costs as little as possible. So these are all measures that have been taken for many years and that are then monitored in these statistics of any city, any county, either at the level of the state where they sublime and then they can create certain trends and can actually monitor the effects of each individual measure. That's why when someone says you didn't do anything, then someone needs to explain why it wasn't done. And it also needs to measure exactly a measure that is then quantified in either number of things, or number of children, or number of meals. Well, here, for example. One of the measures was also in our city that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Demography for 2018 and 2019, it is a food network in primary schools involving 8 schools and a thousand 105 students, and it is worth a million and 120 thousand kuna for 195 thousand meals. So this is a concrete measure where those children received a meal in those schools and where parents could be sure that children were well cared for during school hours. So it's one of the measures that shows that each effect can be measured and said here it costs so much, it includes so many users and in this way we have achieved certain effects where, for example, the diet measure is also implemented by an extended stay program where children are safe, where they write their homework and where they are until their parents get back from work are not on the street. So they also have some care and pedagogical care in that period, and they also have some snack. And these are the measures that every local unit must consider, and therefore it must follow from all indicators of statistics provided by the state or local government office and then project measures to improve living and working conditions in that environment. And then these are the right measures and the right preconditions that will then show that in a particular area the population is being held back, that it is not leaving or less fluctuating, or that we cannot just say that nothing has been done. So from these individual life lines each of us can then see if we've done enough, if we need something more and if these measures are enough. And I'm saying either sociological or cultural right now or the way our kids live is primarily the way they choose to have one, not one child, and I'm saying every one of us would want to have the least then, I hope as a future grandmother that I have at least three per child so let me say there's some kind of reproduction that's not just simple. Here, therefore, we need to keep an eye on this, and that is what these data are for, which can then give us guidance on what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145083	Thank you. We have replicas. Dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Peric, when you have touched Zadar, I agree with you that preschool education is in what-so-satisfactory manner as to the care of children in kindergartens. However, when we talk about schools, we cannot possibly be satisfied with the situation that no school has been built in Zadar for the past 20 years, that there are still schools working on three shifts, that extended stay does not fit the needs of parents, or there is not enough. And when we talk about nutrition, then you should point out that this project that started our government provides food for students at risk of poverty. We've been collecting that data and it's commendable for the project. However, he does not solve the problem of all students who should have a diet in schools. The city of Zadar has financial resources for it, but unfortunately it's not on his list of priorities all these years high, so some other things took first place.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145085	Thank you. Answer, dear colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145086	My dear colleague, if you had done so well then you would have won the elections in the City of Zadar in which you have never won power or will, because the city of Zadar is and how well you listen to the needs of your citizens and here children have the right to eat for families where 2,000 kuna is a censor for the head of the household. So, when there's a need for it to be more, there'll be funding, but I'm also saying that we've been listening well to our city's needs, and here's another new school going to be built on Bocanjec. Therefore, there is no need to criticize Zadar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145087	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145088	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear MPs, Mrs. Peric, you said the ministry should tell people that everyone has 3 children at least as far as I understand you, that we politicians should tell people that everyone should have 3 children. I do not know if you are aware of your statements and if you are aware that in such a way we would create huge social cases and that even more in the future people would leave Croatia, because today this economic situation that we have and that you from HDZ created, partly from the SDP, has contributed to never having a larger exodus. And in that exodus you actually want people to have three children. Here I think it's scary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145089	Thank you. Answer, colleague Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145090	It's terrible what you're saying, my dear colleague. The exodus was half past century and whatever. From the example of my family who, my grandmother had 8 children, of which four went out, 4 remained in Croatia. So that's 50%. I'm not saying that it's a decree to make something, but it's a recommendation for each of us intimately I'd like us to understand that it's the only way to solve demographic problems if we want a positive growth, but nothing can be done like in China with a decree that they have to have only 1 child. It's been a long time, but in order to cause exodus, no, you just need to catch up to work, you need to take advantage of these comparative advantages that we have to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145091	Thank you for your response. Next debate, respected colleague Marija Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145092	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Secretary of State and the Director, so today we are really talking about a subject which, which I would say is important, really, really important, because the data we need can and should be the starting point for all the basic decisions, because it is extremely important to know where, at what stage or at what point we find ourselves in order to make the right decision because it is precisely the decision that should lead to a solution to a particular problem. Today we talked a lot about demographics, we talked about labor, emigration, and that's all what exactly for the State Statistics Institute allows us with its data, although we can actually talk about a lot of things based on impressions because sometimes it's enough to look and go to bus stations and see for example. How many people leave, even without these clear indicators that say that, we can also draw certain conclusions and talk about them on the basis of the impressions. But in the debates we heard today, I was particularly worried that we were, therefore, often talking here about something that wasn't based on statistical data. So here I would also talk about that some solutions that have nothing to do with the statistics are official, I would say a few things that happened through this year 2018, so maybe they were still happening, the solutions that this government offered, and apparently they were based on some statistical data, I would say if those decisions were made that way. So first of all, I would say that, here's when statistics and data, let's say, the attorney generals speak about the growing number of pensioners who complain that because of their low pensions, they have difficulties in accessing different public services and social services and that as many as 32.7% of pensioners live at risk of poverty and social exclusion, and that they are exposed to multiple discrimination by the government and that in fact one of the biggest dangers is the difference in pensions of those highest and lowest who continue to increase inequality, which the government is doing through its measures increases wages to those who are richest so that for those 15,000 of our citizens our tax reform, it increases even more pay and contributes here to make these pensions even more disproportionate. So here's one of the appropriate answers of this government. Further when statistics speak beyond the risk of poverty, about GDP growth, what does the government do?, so it really increases the salary of the richest, and it does not accept, say, the SDP's proposal to increase wages to the middle part of the population, those 700 thousand residents, teachers, nurses and others. Next, when statistics talk about increased emigration, what does the government do?, or because of increased corruption, so feelings of hopelessness, imperceptibility, what does the Government do?, the government is systematically working on suffocating the powers of the Committee for Conflict Prevention or for conflict of interest. Let's move on, for example, what does the government continue to do? When statistics talk about increased violence against women, as all statistics say, the government does not increase this year's budget amounts to improve the protection of victims of domestic violence, they are, though we must say, so we have accepted the Istanbul Convention, but the budget has not seen this because there has been an increase in these items, so there is indeed one commitment to protect victims of domestic violence, not shown in these nominal amounts. Furthermore, when statistics speak of an increased risk of poverty, the government reduces expenditure in the budget to pay for guaranteed minimum compensation or heating compensation, and that is the response to statistics, so the government thus corresponds adequately. Furthermore, when statistics say that, for example, in KBC Split of 30 gynecologists, 29 of them have a conscience appeal, what does the government do about it?, nothing. When statistics speak of the need for increased housing, what does the government do?, the government prohibits living partners from fostering. And that's the government's response to all those statistical needs, that's an adequate response to this government. Finally, when statisticalally, there's still a lot of it, so I think these ten minutes would seem to me like we're not really talking about all the appropriate government responses to statistical data,...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145093	My colleague, I'm sorry, dear colleagues. I'd like to ask you nicely, don't disturb your colleague while she's discussing. Thank you very much. Here you go, excuse me one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145094	Thank you, Vice President. And here I would say in the end that what is currently in the last few days, that is precisely what is said, when statistics show us that the great lack of labour in Croatia is right now at the beginning or almost now in the movement in the tourist season precisely because there has been an emigration, especially for the past two years because of the dissatisfaction, what was the first reaction of the minister?, Minister Pavic's first reaction was to hire the pensioners, it was the first reaction, I won't talk about today, but that's what it was. So, perhaps it is a complete reaction or a solution to this government that pensioners actually bear the entire burden of the Croatian state and as far as saving the tourist season, and as far as,... and please do not enter the word, I would ask you Mr. Vice President to... [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Well, it looks like she's gonna need it again. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Yes, pensioners are actually the ones who will save and save Croatia and the tourist season, and even when it comes to their supplementary insurance and health care, because they have to pay extra for example, because this government, even though it has already increased those tens of kuna pensions, but it then took them to health because they have to pay for additional health insurance. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145095	Thank you. Dear colleagues, if you have anything to say to your colleague while he's discussing it, you have the possibility of an institute of replication, so you can speak to her, and don't enter the word. Please stay away from such behavior in the future. We have a replica of a respected colleague named Sabine Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Alfirev, this throw-off, getting into your debate is actually just saying that truth hurts, and statistics hurt, but unfortunately HDZ statistics don't mean anything to statistics. From this data, it is quite clear that state policy and some decisions are not made on the basis of statistical and objective data, statistics are going through the woods, I'm going to put it so vividly, and HDZ is going through the road. This is so, the best example you gave when you said that tax reform was actually in favour of only 15 thousand of the richest in Croatia, although 1.2 million Croatians live at risk of poverty. But that doesn't mean as much to this government as counterpart Peric said, so what, we win the election. And the fact that 40% of citizens go to the polls at best doesn't matter. Just like no one cares that people who are unhappy with the climate in society are leaving and leaving ours beautiful and looking for their future somewhere far away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145097	I thank my esteemed colleague, the Voter. Answer from my colleague, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145098	Thank you, Vice President, well, yes, it is true, colleagues of the Voice, so when you say things that are true, which are, which they do not, to which nothing can be answered or object, which are based on facts, then it is really hard to say otherwise. So when you're called not to say anything, that you don't do or you don't propose laws based on statistics, so when you prove to them that you're doing it, then again, I can't object, because actually what you said, what we've shown by proposing our laws, by proposing solutions and what we're talking about right now, we're saying that we're really talking about facts and we have some answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145099	Thank you. Next replica, here, Mr. Granny, you finally have a legal opportunity to say what you have, you mean.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145100	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Alfirev, you are... Your debate showed one empathy, a special empathy towards the pensioners, you probably went to that target group and you say the differences, that the differences in pensions in the Republic of Croatia are evident. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, pension differences exist in every system in the world. Not all people did the same and had the same number of years of employment. And that's why there are certain differences. We are talking today about the report on the implementation of the Annual Roadmap for statistical activities in the Republic of Croatia. I'll remind you when you point that kind of empathy to the pensioners. In 2012 to 2015, the government, led by your SDP, committed, increased public debt even though statistical indicators said it was not necessary for 70 billion kuna. For those 70 billion kunas, all highways cost you 62 billion. So she could have increased her pension from that money, and she didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145101	I thank my colleague Babic. Answer from my colleague, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145102	Well, fellow Babic, it's a good thing we're alive after your government. ... Well, it's a good thing at all, so we're all in ours, and that's, and that's the fact, that's the fact, that after what you left us before that and what we had to do then, we did well to do what we could. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But you now in a situation where we go forward and forward, when I show, some economic positive indicators show up, what are you doing? You're doing this to raise your salary by 15 thousand richest people and you don't accept it, so you don't want to accept the proposal of others who want to raise their salaries to teachers, nurses, social workers and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145103	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alfirev. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145104	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The report of the Statistics Institute is what it is, however, but the fact is that the problem is not in the statistical office but is a problem in our reality that is ultimately just being pictured on statistics. The statistics are that young people are becoming more and more old, that more people have moved out in the term of the government of Andrej Plenkovic than at a time when Mr Tomislav Karamarko was in power. The reality is that there's no labour force due to small wages, so people don't want to work for misery under any conditions, and that's why they're going out. We have a surplus workforce but our workforce instead of working in Croatia it is moving. What did the government do about it? They'll certainly list I don't know any measures but if these measures don't work, it's clear that there's nothing out of them and that there's actually something to be done. But the government is doing nothing. And not only does nothing but convinces the government to do whatever it takes to do nothing. See how much money is going to pay off the foreign debt, how much the state is going to give this year to repay the loan. Over 40 billion kuna. That money goes to dear ladies and gentlemen outside the borders of our country, and billions of them, and on the other hand, we in Croatia have blocked citizens, we have nothing, meaning internal indifference. Why no one's team, no one's treating that question at all. Foreign creditors are sacred cows. The Budgetation Act states that first foreign creditors, i.e. creditors in general and then all other budget users. Why? Then you say there's no money for sick kids. Of course there isn't, so of course when you give foreign creditors 40 billion, then clearly there's not a couple of million or 100 million for sick kids, normally. That's right. But unfortunately, this government is a top priority for foreign creditors, and this government is not a priority for young people who have no housing problem to arrange apartments or give homeless people arranged apartments that sleep on trams and streets and squares and station wagons. No, this government is setting up apartments for the admission of migrants from Turkey. So I'm asking you who's crazy here? What is the point of us, besides so many homeless people in Croatia, besides so many people who have no problem with housing, going to free use to give real estate to third-world migrants. Where's the common sense, where's the healthy logic? I can't just accept it. And when the EU, you will say that if the EU gives funds for it, whether or not, and for homeless people who sleep on trams do not give them funds, they do not matter. Young families in Zagreb who can't get to a normal apartment because the prices of rent went to heaven, what about them, who cut them. That's it, buddy. What, like people get by? The government has no solution for these people. When you have a 30-year-old loan, and it all collects, the wages aren't big, that's why people move out. You don't do anything to help these people. The only solutions you're offering are the ones you've already offered before, which is the continuation of agony, the continuation of suffering and the continuation of eviction. Instead of dealing with how Prime Minister Plenkovic solves the housing problems of people who have no housing issue, which is the first step towards preventing emigration, he offers solutions to the Ukrainian crisis. What Ukrainian crisis? So he won't solve the Ukrainian crisis. Not only that, he has a solution for migrants from Turkey who bring us here in waves. And I ask here a question, is it possible that a project is under way to replace the population in order to move the Croatian people out of Croatia, while some other people have settled here? I ask for this reason why I cannot explain in another logical way the government's concern for the issue and demographics on the one hand, which is why in the end Marin Strmota and resigned from the ministry saying that these demographic measures will not solve anything, nor the issue of emigration, nor the question of housing care of people who have no settled housing issue. The question of the roof over your head is question number one, if you don't have a roof over your head, what are we going to talk about next? Every homeless person knows who you meet in town. They haven't solved the housing issue. I call on Prime Minister Plenkovic, instead of the Ukrainian crisis to solve the exodus, I don't know what I would call this crisis, but it is a disaster to stop the disaster in Croatia. Instead of taking care of third-world residents, let them give human living conditions to students who go, live in these dormitories in no rooms and any conditions and pay more expensive, and conditions are getting worse. Unfortunately, even for students, this government is not a concern, so these illegal migrants or legal migrants we are now legally looking at are we on our own, which is why they are in charge of Croatia more than our students, more than our families who are not resident or directed by or by homeless people. What did the migrants owe you us? By no means, this is a project imposed by Brussels and this government is unfortunately the current puppet government it runs those decisions Brussels is talking about, Plenkovic is not a statesman, Plenkovic is the highest figure in the puppet authority hierarchy, but that is his reach. Unfortunately, therefore, I think depending on how you look, fortunately HDZ has lost the election, but unfortunately until this concept finally breaks agony continues. But the problem is not only Plenkovic's problem is that SDP is also a puppet party, there's no difference between HDZ and SDP policy when we reach geopoliticals, it's serving Washington and Brussels, it's serving NATO, it's implementing the EU directive, it's serving. And now this government is offering choices as people. Media as between two presidential candidates Kolinda and Milanovic. And what policy did Milanovic represent? He represented the same policy that led to these statistical results, the same policy. They told the SDPs in their time that 500 people a week or so. 500 jobs open a week. And the truth was, there were less than 500 unemployed in Croatia a week when he was in power, but because they were moving out. And this policy Milanovic led, Plenkovic continued, and here we see it in a statistical report. So the agony continues, the demographic breakdown continues that the least-born children in the last 100 years, that the record eviction, the struggle for existence. That the ladies and gentlemen of HDZ are digging through the trash, going through the soup kitchens, sleeping on the trams, collecting bottles. Don't you see that? Don't you see beggars on the streets of Zagreb? And you don't care, you don't care because it's nice. You may be ashamed. I hope that you will open your eyes when you lose the final elections and when you lose those salaries even though some like Mr Kuštević do not seem to live on their salary and work, and some have loans that certainly do not pay off their wages. And then of course your low wage problem isn't a problem. Well, of course, but you can't think individually as a general, if I like it, if it's me, if my salary isn't the need for the existence of others either. No, you have to think from general to individual, so if people generally live hard, then we have to do everything we can to help an individual, and not me as an individual, it's good, so now I don't care about everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145105	I thank my colleague Pernar. We have a replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145106	Mr. Pernar, I must admit that from this debate of yours, which is a salad of thought and words, I didn't realize much what you were going to say, which is actually an important message, which you were holding, I only realized that you mentioned a roof over the heads of young people and that it was not allowed by the government, did Plenkovic allow them to go out, probably out to the country where they're going, get a roof over their heads, how do they get?, live in ten, five apartments together. So they have more than here and better living conditions, and you're informed yourself that what you're saying is far from true and not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145107	Thank you, colleague Kirin. Comrade Pernar, please choose your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145108	Oh, Mr. Kirin, you know what I'm gonna tell you? If people could live here, if they had salaries to live on, so they wouldn't move out, that tells you a healthy logic, but you assure the entire Croatian public that actually Croatian people are moving out of Croatia because of exhibitionism, you're even trying to impose a tendency to go where they're worse, and they're actually better off here. And the way you think about it, it's the wrong way of thinking that unfortunately is shared by your colleagues from HDZ, and you don't see the need for problems to be solved in society, and that's why we ultimately live in this agony, because you don't really care, because there's only one official truth for you, and that's the official truth of your party boss who has pink glasses, and all of us who talk about Croatian reality are spreading fake news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145109	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145110	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Mr... from the State Department of Statistics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I will try to stick to the debate, in fact these debates in question, because some of the colleagues have now moved away from this Report on the implementation of the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. I'm glad I listened today... from the Secretary of State, in fact, and also from colleagues from MOST, especially from fellow Shucker, actually the point of this agenda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, it should be said that the State Statistics Office in its Report was engaged in data collection and in reaching conclusions both on phenomena, and on the processes which these data present. So one of the main tasks of the statistical system is effective and timely preparation, and dissemination, so the spread of quality statistical indicators that reflect economic and social phenomena, and processes and provide users with a reliable export, an analysis of the existing situation and decision-making, and we were actually talking about it, and that is the sum of this Report, and that is what this Report really needs to be used in the Republic of Croatia. And I think that's actually a key message and sentence from this report. If we were to be relevant, truthfully through the Institute of Economic Research or through some other Institute of Social Research, the type of Ivan Pilar or this State Statistics Institute, we use data that should actually be used by all MPs as a basis for discussion in the Croatian Assembly. So, why the background? In argumenting and guiding data, referring to these institutions of ours or their discussions, they should be credible, and they would only be credible if we were to use this data, then they wouldn't be as political as with the individual colleagues, I won't say 'now' my colleague Alfie's politician, but that politics is actually the weeds of one policy, and it creates an ugly perception, but when you use the right data that is related to such an institute or to a seduce, then no one will tell you that you're saying insubstantial things, false things, or populist, political or so forth. So, when you look at this report, then you will see, or all your colleagues could actually see that it shows one review and demographic indicators, and macroeconomic indicators, and business indicators, and indicators related to fisheries, forestry, construction, so also for other areas that are actually the basis of rulings, or that they work and lead a good policy or that they correct their policy. That is why I was deliberately saying in my debate that during the three and four years that the authorities led by the SDP were listening, and we talked about it, in fact, about these data, the reports of the State Statistics Institute that were not good because the trends were not good, it happened that it was the worst government, that they were economically the worst and that they were also the institutions, the international institutions that talked about it, and in fact, during that time we increased public debt, almost to 70 billion kuna, we enormously owed ourselves, which, of course, through the government of the Croatian Democratic Community, of course, decreased that debt to 76% of GDP. So this report includes heterogeneous areas, which, in my opinion, provides quality, timely and internationally comparable data, which is very important, for the purposes of implementing different policies. In my view, therefore, the State Statistics Institute is the main holder, emulator and coordinator of the official statistics system of the Republic of Croatia, and as the main representative of the National Statistical System in front of European and international statistics authorities. If you go to the official pages of the Bureau, the State Statistics Office can actually read all the data we need, and that is, it is actually the essence of the State Statistics Office. Is it about the exchange of goods with abroad, retail trade, tourism, personal consumption, and poverty that some colleagues have said, that I am not talking about lists of residents, lists of settlements, lists of settlements, etc. On the other hand, perhaps even as colleagues, we have not accepted the fact that we are a member of the European Union, and as such we are based both on programmes and users, but also on the EU requirements set out in Eurostat documents, and these documents are related to that Statistical Requirement Compendium and should be said that the State Statistics Institute applies the same structure. It may have taken the secretary of state, I think you said something at first, but it is actually applying the same structure that is used in the EU, or through Eurostat, or which is applied in this so-called so-called. Compendiu, which is very important. Perhaps the colleagues did not notice that this report was the first to refer to the period covered by the multiannual programming document of the State Statistics Institute or the 2018 statistical activity programme, so for 2020, this is the first such report, and I think it is useful to say that this is particularly relevant for this agenda point. This plan planned 280 activities, and in fact 232 activities were respected, so these several 49 activities were not respected and were actually spoken of on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Schuker. And he actually said what this report was about. So, in this report, in the absence of human potential, which is evident, certain activities could not be carried out, but it is not only human potentials that are quantumly speaking, but we need the best people for these kinds of delusions, because these institutions actually serve other institutions in creating their policies and their work. So that's the point, that is, if we can now say the lack of the State Statistics Institute, which is why it did not carry out these 49 activities. So, in the absence of resources and human potentials, we need to look not only for people who can do it, but also for those who can do it in the most qualitative way. I therefore commend this report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan related to the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. I note once again that it is actually related to a period of many years, which is very good and I hope that these data will serve the Government of the Republic of Croatia that certain things can be corrected in their policies, which is actually the interest and intensity of such a report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145111	I thank my colleague Babic. We have replicas, dear colleague Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145112	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Babiæ, well, yes, I answered because you called me if you named me, so maybe what I'm saying is politically because what I'm saying is actually talking about it, I was talking about how this government sees a solution to the problem and what I'm saying is really what it's done, it's not something that's made up, it's not my impression, it's exactly what it's done. And I'm saying maybe, maybe it looks political to you, and maybe it just bothers you because it's actually true and it's fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145113	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145114	Dear colleague Alfirev, I appreciate you as an advocate and I respect you, we are together on individual committees in the Croatian Parliament, which is why I say that we should not speak politically but stick to certain arguments that are verifiable and in fact that we do not actually create an ugly picture to our public. I am sorry, but because of you, but the fact is that this government too has a strong GDP growth, that the biggest reduction in public debt in GDP, that our credit rating based on the Standard & Poors report has been returned to investment levels, that there have been increased wages, that increased pensions, tax reform has done great, big things, activities that are related to the implementation of our business entities in several activities are reductions and disbursements of over 2 billion kuna and a series of other data that are positive, it should be recognised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145115	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145116	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić and today, unfortunately, like almost every day in this assembly, we listen to some of the stories that anyone tells, but this report is about to say the work of the State Statistics Institute based on some programmes that have been adopted and what needs to be pointed out, and I want to especially highlight it in this replica, the work in the National Statistics Institute is not attractive and let's be honest that a colleague from the State Office is not offended, but it may be one of the most unattractive interests of this and the direction of economic science, and therefore it is very important to attract young people, educate them, pay them well because of that Croatia will have multiple benefits. And informing all and giving information to Croatian citizens is going to eliminate these huge political ravings that unfortunately happen in this assembly, simply people will not believe them anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145117	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145118	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Schuker, I agree with you and you said that on behalf of the HDZ Club, the fact is both by the SDP and by the HDZ that we have, in part, derivated the state institutions, and thus, the State Statistics Office. So, instead of strengthening our own institutions, so the State Statistics Institute is a relevant institution towards Eurostat and international organisations and it is certain that I have not made any remarks and all the data that come from the State Institute are being taken we will say this as accurate and verifiable. For this reason, I would be pleased to see that trend shift, to strengthen our own institutions, and thus the State Statistics Institute, to be attractive, is recognizable for young people and for all those who will come to work in such an institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145119	I thank my colleague Babic. Next debate, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145120	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. This report fully shows that the State Statistics Institute is in fact in line with the work programme for 2018 and that all the activities planned have been largely implemented. It is equally evident that the State Statistics Institute is still struggling with human resources problems in the sense that human resources and teamwork are therefore not reflected in the work of the State Statistics Institute, but that in many ways the challenges are large and in fact financial terms there is not sufficient support for the stronger teaming of the Institute itself. What is certainly visible from this report but also what is important for the Republic of Croatia in the coming period and about the reports we will discuss in the coming years is a great job of methodological preparation that is being done in the Institute itself on the Draft and a proposal for a census law waiting for the Republic of Croatia in 2021. It is a great deal of work, it is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and I must admit that we as opposition representatives look forward to the proposal of the Census Act to see in which direction the government will be determined on this matter and in some way define, legally defining the rules... and the State Statistics Office in these preparatory actions has done everything necessary and brought some European standards into line with the methodology itself. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not going to enter the individual chapters of content right now, and my colleagues have discussed it a lot in the debate so far. However, I would take the opportunity to ask Mr. Secretary of State next. Mr. Secretary of State, can you answer me in your final statement or here you can immediately and after my presentation, however you like, the question of what's going on with the Official Statistics Act. You are probably aware that this 2003 law has been changed the last time in 2012 is missing in one important segment, which is that the existing law does not prescribe the way of the selection and appointment of the Director of the State Statistics Office. And so far, we've had political appointments at government meetings that have appointed directors of the State Statistics Office. However, all this could go on and on until May 2015. As Croatia has taken over certain answers by official entry into the EU, the State Statistics Institute is closely linked to Eurostat, which is a national, or European central, national, and so to call it, the institution and we have committed ourselves to transpose certain European regulations into Croatian legislation. So 4 years ago, more precisely in May 2015, and you know it better than I did, the European Official Statistics Regulation, without a transitional period, came into force immediately, which requires strengthening the independence of national statistical offices and harmonising the domestic statistical system with the statistical practice code. But for four years now, here it means since May 2015, the Republic of Croatia has been avoiding, knowingly or unconsciously, and I will say why later, it seems to me that it is consciously avoiding to transpose this regulation into Croatian legislation. This Regulation or the new law in accordance with this Regulation should lay down a clear way of selecting and authorising the Director of the State Statistics Office. And why did I say that Croatia avoids doing so knowingly? As a result, when that regulation was adopted, the State Statistics Office immediately set out to draft a new law. And there, since the end of 2017, there have been as many as 3 public consultations on this law, but since 2017, or if you want, that law has not seen the light of day, it is not referred to the government's procedure, let alone that it has come to the Croatian Parliament. Now, this may not seem to have much to do with this report itself, with its contents, but it does, it certainly has a connection because the intensity actually means that we would have quality data, that we would have an objective monitoring of the phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia and that on the basis of the same, we could make relevant political decisions, what the EU and the Regulation of the European Commission actually wants and what its intensity is is, in fact, a full, or strengthening of the independent role of the State Statistics Office, its own way of separating it from the state, because it is at this point still the central body of the state administration and through the application of this Regulation, the State Statistics Office would become an independent state body that independently and independently performs the tasks from its work. According to what was imagined and proposed in the draft law, the director would choose for a term of five years but would no longer be chosen by the Government of the Republic of Croatia than by a public tender. What I'm interested in is why don't you stick to the adopted plan of legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that you brought yourself, the government has brought it in which it says that in the first quarter, which has long passed, the law will be referred to the procedure. In whose drawer is the proposal for a law on official statistics, why does this law not want to be passed and who has something to do with the fact that the State Statistics Institute is actually turning into a strong, independent body? I hope that those who have ordered the law to be held in a drawer this 4 years have not been guided by the malignancy of political influence and impact on the independence of certain institutions or prevention, the achievement of independence status and in the last 2 years we have had the opportunity to see in the Republic of Croatia as well as those of independent state institutions such as the Ombudsman institutions, and now, in the latter and the institution of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest are under a strong political blow and a clear intention of HDZ-ization not even politicisation, but the HDZ-isation of independent institutions. I appeal as an advocate that, as we beautifully transpose other European directives into national legislation, we know that these laws are all the way from here to P.Z.E. by emergency procedure, they actually skip 2 readings, please make this good practice of the Republic of Croatia especially in terms of this opening of institutions, strengthening and strengthening of certain institutions that should give objective and clear pictures of the situation in the Republic of Croatia in specific areas, which surely belongs to and belongs to the State Bureau of Statistics, please find this law in one of the drawers and stick to, if not my appeal and then at least the adopted plan of legislative activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which said that the law would refer to the procedure in the first quarter which passed. So you don't have to listen to my appeal, but let's stick to the documents, official documents you brought yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145121	I thank my colleague, Voter. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Maria Alfirev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145122	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleagues of the Voice, so what you said last is actually one of them, and maybe one of the worst options that can happen to us, and somehow you yourself have also cited indicators that speak about this possible HDZ-ization as you yourself have stated because independent institutions actually play that role, the key role of protecting the rights of those who really need to protect themselves independently of any other option. So also protecting the independence of this institution, this would be one of the main, fundamental goals and we're afraid of trends that speak, that show something else, exactly what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145123	Thank you, colleague Alfirev, for the voter response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145124	Yes, if this regulation had been applied, and if the law had been passed, the HDZ would not have been able to appoint a new director of the State Statistics Institute at the beginning of this year alone, I would not have entered into it, under the existing law, that is possible. But what's amazing is that you can actually see how we have changed the laws here in order to shorten the term of office, let's say, the Ombudsman for children, where in the transitional and final provisions under the cover of the necessary changes, because of the Constitutional Court's decisions, they just wrote that after the amendment of the law, no matter what its mandate still takes, they still choose a new one. I am afraid that it only does not reach out for the same solution and in amending the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest which has also been wandering around in the air for months and that we would not solve this crisis with the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the Croatian Assembly in transitional and final provisions, as was the case with the Advocate General.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145125	Thank you. Dear fellow Shuker, please don't throw your colleague into the debate. Thank you. Now we're gonna temporarily stop the debate on this agenda point. We will move to the conclusion of the club's position on the basis of Article 249a of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145126	Thank you, Comrade Curaj, you can remain in possession of your final statement on behalf of the Croatian National Club of Representatives, Liberal Democrats on the 2018 Report on the Implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145127	Thank you. Now we're something.../incomprehensible/... I, respected state secretaries, colleagues and colleagues I won't last long and I just wanted to be aware that here we're talking about work, in fact a report on the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia, namely the State Statistics Institute, and I would just concentrate on something that I did last year, but I mentioned, it's about that when we look at the programme of statistical activities we see that this year is not fulfilled 1, if I'm not wrong, 231 of 232 has been fulfilled and it's listed because of the lack of human capacities. Last year, the labour market survey was also not completed, or was transferred to 2018 for the same reason. I've already been a pie on the last report why it's systematized if I'm not mistaken for 723 jobs, and we're talking about 1.1.2019. 507 were filled, last year 514, and we had an obligation in Chapter 18 that was actually only a chapter of any statistics we had to do when we introduced employees from the county administration to 90 more, and then we had about 600 of them, so I'm not just 618 if I'm not mistaken, not only did we not hire another 90 but we have another 100 and something less. And then what happens to us is that certain activities don't meet, though 1 out of 232 is not so alarming but by its name if I'm not mistaken, and that's the methodology and calculation of the value of the long-term assets of Croatia, it's not like I'm just such a statistical indicator, especially if we know the efforts of the Ministry of State Assets, especially if we want to know what we have and how much it's worth, that it's probably also the largest analysis, but we can't afford to miss it, that we can say that we don't have enough capacitated people. Yes, we should maybe change that systematization, we should negotiate with.../incomprehensible/... surely since then we have new ways and methods of work, that they may not require so much physical work or human work, and right here, they would just draw attention, it's listed according to what I've been looking at, otherwise in this material not all the living reports we've heard today, we've called in various statistics it's just a report on those who perform and, or process all the living data and give us these statistics. So, here we can't talk about everything and everything, but exactly about the agency that does its job and then says here that we are, that the modernisation of 2018 is continued, so maybe we should change that systematicization that it's not exactly so random that we have 500 people employed by 723 systematically or one or the other. And then he says that this useful, or work force poll is carried out further successfully through CAPI and CATI methods, although there is, you have a footnote with number 9 which is not recorded on page 18 otherwise CAPI are computer face-to-face assists, interviewing CATI again computer polling over the phone. And obviously, it's a lot of use, a lot of technology, so I'd like the simple systemization to be adapted to new modes of work, but absolutely to see that by redistributing within the state services themselves, all of which are possible, to ensure that the additional number of employees are consistent with the commitments that would not happen every year and that we're saying we don't have a sufficient number of labour forces. When we look at the structure of the workforce then it's even worse, we can expect that on average 62 that in the next year, two more than 15 people go to a minimum, and possibly more, so every year we lose 10, 15 people in 2-3 years we're going to fall far below 500, and I'm afraid that what this foundation means is just to finish it, the final work of this agency is the basis, or.../incomprehensible/... the basis of the work should be all the ministries, all the programs that are being brought in. If we're talking about education here, the labour market, which is needed, which is, which is, what are the movements on the labour market, demographics that are closely related to the labour market, and then the existing labour market, whether we should invest in schools where we have projections that there will be no children at all, in general what professions we need. So, all the almost projections, all the programs and all the government's work plans, every ministry should have a background in statistics, is that important to who it's working for. And that's why this doesn't suck, and this is important, and that's why it's important to provide all the quality possible and people-related and infrastructure to do this job in a quality way because it's up to it to do everything further that we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145128	Thank you. Next is colleague Miro Bulj, final. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145129	Thank you very much. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues, statistics, i.e. The Institute of Statistics is essentially this report, of course, but every report must be the basis of some analysis and some movement in essence and the adoption of certain, and there is a strategy in Croatia, which is not everything. So, the statistical office did its job, but here we saw earlier in the debates that the ruling praises with excellent results, the statistical indicators, but this is not reality. We have 2/3 of Croatia empty and therefore we have to extract the meaning of certain measures. Repeat, measures. The Bureau of Statistics has done its job for what it's been paid for, if it's just enough for us to come here and listen to that report, to vote for the report that's been done by the rules of the profession, then we don't have to be here at all. We need to discuss what's happening based on these statistics. So if that's it, this is math. And of course, by ruling there, they're going to be looking for certain things that are good for them, the opposition is going to say what's wrong, but we need to take a critical look at this. What's critical about? To make common good decisions and our solutions to this. Because if two-thirds of Croatia is empty, if we have a drop in the number of first-graders, 150 classes less in 2018 than in 2016, if we boast of economic growth and have never again imported, mainly, I speak food products, if we don't invest in our agricultural land, if we don't have that power, mainly in these two-thirds of this area, and I was saying that there are no 161 municipalities and I stand behind it, the local self-government of the possibility of a child's kindergarten, then we have to ask ourselves what is the meaning of these municipalities to have so many professionals. Do they have to be so many professionals in these municipalities if they can't provide for one kindergarten child? And we owe by, I think we'd have an obligation that 20, 90 percent of our children have 3 to 6 years of childcare, not as we'll be guarding children, but as an educational institution, because it's said by statistical indicators that children who have kindergartens, who have the conditions that they have a large number of opportunities to finish higher education. And that's these two-thirds of Croatia. In 2/3 of Croatia, we have empty today. So we were making suggestions. If I hadn't made proposals, here's when it comes to undeveloped areas, when it comes to demographics, the MOST club, the other colleagues, so we have to get the point out of this, it can't happen that we have 2/3 of Croatia without a population and that we see in that area that entrepreneurs have no interest in working. What do we have to do? We need to ensure that the entrepreneur opens up a job and that the man stays here with his family. The second measure, providing kindergartens, is not only in the undeveloped areas of the Croatian issue, it was also done by developing countries in their undeveloped areas that also subsidized parents and local self-government through local self-government to have children's kindergartens. And of course the young man will leave with his family, that he is at least in Zagreb, but he will go to the third country where he is provided with it all. And if we're just looking at these statistical indicators through the numbers that the report is and where it should be, colleague Shucker just said that I'm against, this morning he said he's against... I call for measures to be taken that we should discuss it from this report, because the report is made according to the rules of the profession. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, based on that report, we have some lessons to learn. Because if we have 314 children in two years less first-borns, then that says we have 150 classes less. If we see that we import a lot of milk, then we have to do something. What's going on, we don't have to export it to China through the milk shop of Sinj when there's no milk. And then we brag about exporting milk to China, writing protocols. So if there's no irrigation in the Sinj field, if there's no Vrhorak drain, people have to move out, drink their own vodka because they're not competitive. Thus, statistical indicators must serve to see the real situation, not to talk praises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145130	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145131	Report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2018. Reporter is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the implementation of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted in 2018. Please, let's vote. I find that with 92 votes for and 2 abstentions, so most of the votes conclude that it was proposed by the parent board.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145132	The next item of the agenda is: - Proposal for a Law on Heat, first reading, P.Z. No. 450 Proposer Club of Representatives Bridge of Independent Lists; Mr. Bulj, so your point is, so we won't get used to it here now. ... Excuse me, please, come on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The proposal is a bridge of independent lists pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy. The government delivered an opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you are, dear representative Dobrović, on behalf of the promoter of the Most Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145133	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Resort and of course fellow Members and colleagues of Parliament. Here we are... Didn't I say? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If I'm not a representative then, they're more important to me, yes, thank you very much. So the Heat Act, that's our second legal proposal that we've given from the ranks of the opposition, so from the club of the Most Independent Lists. The first is to visit was the Law on Self-supply of Renewable Energy, the Second Heat Act. So what's the motive for this proposal? In fact, it concerns the Heat Energy Market Act adopted by the Government in 2013. He had three changes in '14, '15. This is, of course, part of the energy package that Croatia was supposed to adapt in its own way and is concerned, the focus is also the main objective of this package of reducing energy consumption, thus increasing efficiency, increasing the share of renewable energy sources all with the aim of reducing the adverse impact of our societies on the environment, because we know that the energy sector has significant emissions, not only of greenhouse gases but of each other, and that this is exactly the area, which can be done in full and of course there are reforms in the energy sector, and so the Law on the market for heat energy, which aims to reduce consumption, losses, ineffectiveness in this energy sector, hence the consumption of heat energy. However, the law was not great, it was not good, however, it has brought many difficulties and many problems, one of the troubles is that it was going to force the impression that we have this free market, but it cannot easily be there because whoever supplies heat energy, therefore large installations are mainly electricity producers, which in the cogeneration of large cities are able to do the supply of consumers with thermal energy, of course there are those who do not work in cogeneration. So supply, heat transport isn't such a simple thing, it's a phenomenon, it's a form of energy that requires large volumes. So it's not electricity that's significantly easier to transport, and it's much easier to provide conditions for market action, which is ultimately good because these changes have made it possible at the end to lower the price, so more suppliers can compete today and get supplies, contracts here are public large consumers who are obliged to carry out these procedures, and that's good, but in this case, it's not possible because it's very difficult to create conditions for someone to appear with their boiler at once and offer thermal energy. In addition, heat production, boilers so far do not seem to be exactly something that can be kept up with all these requirements, which is to reduce harmful emissions. Fuel articles, that's something else, but it's only the next generation. So here we have these new categories that have arisen, the type of customer, etc., which has not come to life and what is actually the main problems and what many citizens have felt is one violent, short-term commitment that has been introduced, and that is that everyone must, all connected to heat networks, have to build on so-called. Divisions therefore for those systems where, of course, with the purpose of individualising consumption and this is basically a good measure, so the divisor as such which, based on the physics of the heating body and based on the difference of temperatures, can speak quite precisely about which power is actually done and such kind of distribution, dedicated energy in areas heated on the common system, can quite accurately reflect the consumption of the bodies and then summarically for individual consumers. However, the way in which this was done was that the obligation applied exclusively to divisors and then thermostats without taking over the i.e. Consider the whole of the system, so the heat station, nothing about it, the physics of the building, so it could have been part of the solution, the physics of the building, then the installation of the so-called. balance or balance pumps which then pump with a variable number of spins, therefore which in new conditions, conditions when no constant flow of heating media occurs through these systems in buildings, do optimally, i.e. in accordance with the need. So all of this remained expensive and there was only this need legally to install a divider of course with thermostat and this often resulted in absurdities, of course some citizens resorted to simply closing thermostatic valves and actually creating a new kind of energy poverty. And here we are, today is 2019, May 6th. or June and we see that the government does nothing on this issue because it was certainly needed to be defined in relation to this emerging problem in Croatia, nothing seems to be done and we have made this proposal, of course we do not expect that the Parliament or most of them will accept it because, of course, they will think that the government will better, but if nothing else, we are counting on us to do some pressure to deal with the current problems in energy. Here, in this sense, the law is there, of course it would be best and best to support it as such, why not, it would be a nice example of the good, new way of functioning of our Croatian society where they accept good suggestions or that it can of course be completed, to make such an acceptance. We are prone to such cooperation and this to come together perhaps something about a better solution, but we believe that these questions should certainly be answered. This law is a matter of dividers of course of those categories we have solved differently, the most important final customer and supplier, and as far as we are concerned we leave the divisor at will, so at this stage citizens who are organised in their communities through representatives of course of the tenants or qualified majority of the owners to decide which model they will accept, because this is actually one rape situation, and all under the auspices of environmental protection, reduction of consumption which is not good. It's a shame that these complex things and problems are solved in such a casual, particular way. It is this law on the heat energy market that is an example of a poor solution to more complex problems and we think that this legal proposal is a significant improvement and that it is as such worth considering in this home. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145134	Thank you. On your opening statement, we have three replicas. He's a colleague of Totgergeli's first. Here you go. After him, a colleague of Grmoy and a colleague of Sladolev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145135	Thank you, Vice President. So I actually have a question about Article 12, which in this proposal of the law you suggest we go on a regulated basis, and we take out the market from the Heat Act, as you have agreed and now this paragraph 6, paragraph 6, you make an exception to that and you say that if the buyer has a heat consumption greater than 50% which is not for heating, then it can also negotiate on the market the price of heat energy. Now I'm curious what you're actually expecting with that article? This customer who meets the conditions of that paragraph, will he then have a cheaper price of heat or will have a more expensive price of heat than any other customer who will enter the regulated part according to your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145136	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145137	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague of course is a very good, good mechanism for regulation of course of activity on the market and it is good to include it to the maximum possible extent because it is known to increase competitiveness, asking all those who play on the market to make a maximum of quality, to be recognised by consumers and thus to create a better society, a better market. However, I said in the introduction that this sphere of heat supply is not appropriate to that extent for one free market, so that the previous law I refer to, it is as such presented, but in reality it does not exist, so that we have made a solution as we have done and of course we are willing to listen to the discussion and accept novelties.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145138	Thank you. Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145139	Thank you. Dear fellow Dobrović, so here's the MOST Club sent this Heat Act, which means it's quite complex but also for our citizens who are following this debate or will read in the media. What is most important is the message that needs to be clearly highlighted this law would end the obligation to install a separator, this one I understand. So I think it's very important, because a large part of the citizens complain about that decision means the CNS of the then ruling majority, the Minister of Vrdoljak, whom they call a Mr. Division, so in that sense we should clearly state in which direction this legal solution is going and what is the key thing that is proposed, so here I would ask that it be a little commentary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145140	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145141	Thank you very much. Thus, the obligation as such ends because this obligation has done nothing good except that the market divisions have significantly accumulated, so we are familiar with the professions dealing with this area and that in this age these businesses have blossomed as regards prices because, of course, there is an important demand for the installation of these devices of simple ones, so that they have just followed a huge price and, of course, created a series of problems later in application. We remove the obligation by this law and allow this system, therefore, to build energy systematically, to include, of course, the work on changing the physics of objects, on heat stations. and finally on the very.../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145142	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation, colleague of the Ice creams. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Dobrovic, how important this law is to show concrete examples that people write to us about divisors and I think that the Government and we also need to listen to people who have concrete problems. There's a Facebook page called "Let's Say No to Divisions", which is actually written on that page by people who are having problems with those who have installed the dividers and who were actually a fraud. So you also have a fact in my building that the man who installed the divisors, and lives on the final floor, on the highest floor, pays bigger bills after installing the divisors, and the one who lives in the middle of the building pays smaller bills. So this one, so this one of ours, in some way, permission to install divisors who want to, who will see for themselves whether it will help him is actually crucial in all of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145144	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145145	Yes, this is due to the fact that it did not work out that these facilities, these buildings, are isolated, if not previously, because in this way they are actually suffering those who are positioned in terms of so-called accommodation in a building with a larger number of external walls at the top or above the passages, because, of course, it takes more energy to heat up there, which actually brings one great irrationality, and that means that such a previous law, or this one, is still valid, went to the point where rationality in energy consumption is achieved so that those who are exposed to the greatest energy or heat requirements, are exposed to the highest cost, so it goes to all of them to the burden instead of going to fix the system as such and then achieve the results.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145146	Thank you. We also have the State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić, and will give further explanation of the government's opinion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Subjective Proposal for a Heat Act before you is such that the Government considers that it would completely put a few EU Directives, Directive 2009/28, Directive 2001/77, Directive 2003/30, Directive 2010/31, 2012/27. The Directives in question have also been transposed in other laws and sublaws which have created a national legislative framework in line with that acquis, so we believe that the placing outside force of the applicable law in the way proposed by the proposal in question would, in one part, repeal the legislative framework in accordance with Directive 2012/27, which has been notified by the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission within the deadline provided for. The proposed law also does not respect the European Commission’s comments on the need to regulate the existence of a thermal energy criterion in each heat substation, regardless of whether there are separate criteria or a device for local distribution of supplied heat energy in individual self-used targets. As a newspaper, the subject-matter of the bill introduces the abolition of the activity of the consumer of heat energy and the full control of service prices, which means, in reality, the return to legal solutions that were in force under the 2005 Act of Production, Distribution and the supply of heat energy, respectively. It was precisely because of the inability to apply the provisions of the Law on Production, Distribution and Supply of Heat Energy that introduced the concept of a consumer of heat energy as a special legal entity responsible for internal installations in the building as well as the conduct within the building instead of representatives of co-owners who could not carry out all the tasks and tasks prescribed by it. The provisions of Articles 40 to 43 of the Law in question define the relationship between suppliers and end-users as well as the link between the representative of co-owners who have practically caused problems until a number of issues have been defined at all, for example, when the representative of the co-owners does not contact the company within the specified deadlines or when the representative of the co-owners does not have or is not able to establish secure and stable cooperation between suppliers, representatives of co-owners and individual owners. For this very reason, a representative of the co-owners was relieved and a legal obligation was imposed on the buyer of heat energy. The regulated system for the price of heat heating services by 2013 also enabled citizens to pay non-economic service prices, return to tariff systems in the area of supply and heat production would endanger the survival of the activity itself and the companies that are doing the same. In fact, without the necessary resources, the situation of inability to invest in the thermal system would again be maintained, restored and expanded. The problem of non-investment in the thermal system and mainly in the building conditioned enormous problems in the heating system so that in many buildings for many years the installation was not cleaned or the equipment contained within the same. The proposed full price control could lead to problems in maintaining the heating system in buildings, or further deterioration of installations in the same buildings. The provisions of Article 4(2) of the Law proposal in question stipulates that the production plant for transformation, the input amount of energy into thermal energy shall be the total installed power greater than 0,5 MW for which the Agency’s authorisation is to be granted while the applicable law for the same prescribed 2 MW of total installed power precisely to reduce the administrative burden on smaller objects or facilities of less power which do not need permission to produce heat energy. So in short, this law to resume, there are situations that the government cannot accept among others that are also unacceptable and that is a return to price regulation. Simply in the process when we are deregulated, go back to the regulated price, so we are going back to those same problems that are all heathers in the minuses, and we all know that it was regular and that only survived one heather who was in the minus but was within the big system, which is HEP heat and by eliminating the divisor as your basic idea, a practical direct conflict with EU directives and the return of Croatia to the state that was before the adoption of this law. So the intensity, the intensity of your law is in, about that we don't understand why you and the law predicted that these 0.5 MW plants would already have to ask for permission or already 0.5 MW, and by the existing, current law we have 2 MW simply somewhere is the price and the permit of about 15,000 kuna and even later it's simply an additional burden for these facilities. What the ministry is doing is preparing changes and supplementing this law is aware of the fact that it takes maximum, maximum balance of the whole story so that the divisions are as good as possible for citizens, that the overall system is balanced and that it is even better and better quality in terms of the sharing of burdens within co-owners in terms of the burden of costs of the entire system and that it is clear that we care that this, that this system is introduced as soon as possible in a way that it is literally acceptable for all those who simply in such system are in this system of certain circumstances. So our idea is such that we do not give up the legal solution that we now have just so that we have to improve it as best as possible, and it is clear that, for these two and more basic reasons, the Government does not accept this bill and is proposing to the Croatian Parliament not to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145148	Thank you. On your further explanation of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have 3 replicas. First one's a colleague of the Grmoi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145149	Thank you. So, from this presentation, we couldn't hear the answers to our citizens' questions, answers to the questions of people who object to the installation, the mandatory installation of the divisor he imposed on them means Ivan Vrdoljak known as Mr. Division. We are all aware of how much damage it has done in Croatian politics, but we also see our citizens with such a decision, and in this sense we cannot agree with what you have done here, we insist on it, and the MOST will insist that the obligation to install a divisor be abolished even though we are aware that the government and this ruling majority will, especially when the HNS is part of it now and when the ruling HNS hostage, we see that they have left them with the most important resistor that is education, so our children have been handed over to the HNS, and we also have this situation that you do not want to or that the government does not want to change these bad decisions Because you're for the ruling majority. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145150	Thank you, fellow Grmo. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145151	The Honorable Parliament representative of the Grmoy, has not introduced the divisions, and no one has introduced an ad personam of some, a gentleman you like to mention all the time. I think it's very important in life not to engage in these things of public interest to people and to attack people because it doesn't work out in your life. For example, some of the results you've had in the past few days, that these attacks of yours aren't exactly bringing any results. It was introduced by the government of Zoran Milanovic, the Croatian Parliament voted, it was the commission that was one of the triggers why the government passed such a law. Clearly, we as a member of the EU and as a government which is also a government of the EU member states will continue to make the most good laws in accordance with these regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145152	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145153	Dear Secretary of State, therefore, you said in your statement that you were only applying the EU Directive, but you also mentioned that it was the application of the directive in practice that there were major problems. Is that right, this one? So this installment of the divisor didn't go as it may have been in some other countries of Europe. So it's not just the application of the directive, it's a matter of implementation, and I've said the example from my building myself, so how chaotic it was, and that's that the man who lives on the top floor after installing the divisor who paid dearly, has bigger bills for heating, the man who lives two floors behind has smaller accounts, so it got into that unprepared, that the first thing we had to do was to make energy renovations of buildings and things like that, and then we could possibly offer citizens the installation of divisors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145154	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145155	We are aware of this problem that we are clearly listening to and what citizens are saying, what they say and clearly that we are getting as a ministry of performance and all of these remarks we know and that is why it has been for some time our complete expert analysis and the basis for the amendments and additions of the Law on Heat in order to simply solve all these possible problems. So, the fact is that there are some problems, and we think that they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who will solve them with their new proposal that will soon come before you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145156	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145157	Thank you very much. Here, from, from the ministry's reply, the sector is not being systematically accessed. Namely, heating, heating in buildings multi-state objects of yours, not yours, but the government's 2013 solution, which is really bad, which has brought a lot of, a lot of this problem on the ground is the result of such individual approaches. No one said it was necessary to invest in thermal cells, that they were important that it was impossible to install divisors without touching anything about the distribution of hot water from thermal cells. Nor did he say it should be paired with a change in the physics of the building. thermal insulation of buildings. So there were resources for all of this together, and it was supposed to be integrated into one policy, and here it is. is the error of Croatian politics.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145158	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145159	Dear Representative Dobrović, if you mentioned whether it was said whether it was invested in certain parts of the building or in thermal and other stations, these are also things that are related and to the Law of Ownership, meaning no one is forbidden to do so, no one is allowed to do so, simply we are in the law, who are currently valid, adhered to certain legal solutions that were necessary at that time to bring them in. And that's the whole story. And clearly, all you're saying is that someone invested would certainly be better for everyone else, but the fact is that we're going to concentrate on what's important to make this law as functional as possible, as better, as efficient as possible and as cheap as possible for citizens or users.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145160	Thank you. I'm opening a debate now. First on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Miro Totgergeli. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145161	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, a respected assistant minister, co-workers and colleagues, so we have before us a proposal for a Law on Heat which was drawn up by the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists. By reading in detail the materials of this proposal, the first illogicality is already imposed in the first point of the material where the constitutional basis for the adoption of the law on the self-supply of electricity from renewable energy is contained in the provision of the article and so on. So, if this is exactly what it says in the first point of the material, then today we don't need to discuss this proposal at all because we already discussed the Self-supply Act on 31.5, and of course this is obviously a mistake, and if it's a mistake, then I can conclude with what attention you've come to making this bill and how much you've really looked at everything you've written in this bill. These provisions should be adopted in order to affect customers or the entire heat energy system. Further in the materials you can see that this is actually a good part and prescribed the Law on the heat market and there we have heard a lot of stories about the divisor, my colleague Dobrović himself on behalf of the promoter said that even the divisors themselves are actually useful, which is of course true and true. Of course, the divisors are primarily just a measurement element, so this is not an element that regulates energy within the building or anything like that, but only measures how much of that energy is consumed in each apartment. Of course, in buildings of an older type of construction, where there is no insulation of good, that those apartments that are on the edge of that building or that have more surfaces in contact with the environment are cooling faster, so they also spend more heat to maintain the same temperature than those apartments located in the center and which, which are practically isolated by those adjacent apartments than the surrounding environment. However, the principle that everyone still pays as much as they spend in that part is useful because the most accurate things would be and are much more accurate in measuring if they could put calories, but in those old systems then they would have to change the entire heating system because they would have to make completely different pipes inside the building, they couldn't be vertical about going from bathroom to bathroom, but they would have to be vertical so complex that they go from apartment to apartment and then everything after vertical and one apartment could then be more precise and measured, but that means that the principle that everyone pays the part that spends is actually good. I must further conclude, the truth is that what you wrote in the bill regarding the fact that residents can decide for themselves whether they will go to the divisors or not or whether they will retain the heat payment system according to, say, the square or something else. We have already seen such an idea in 2015 in the government regulation of 2015, which is one of those changes to the Law on the Market for Heat Energy that can be seen, so we have in the National Journal of 2015 extended I think it is Article 33 of the existing law, it has been extended with additional items in which the possibility that tenants can decide whether they want to pay for the heat from the divisors or that old way of calculating that you have made it a little bit simpler here, so in this proposal, there would be enough 50% of the co-owners within one building, there it required a slightly higher percentage of co-owners. And now we come to the part where you're looking at the heat market, and you're looking at the heat market, and not the heat market law, so I'm actually trying to figure out through the replica that you're looking at the heat market, because you're looking at the heat market, and you're in Article 12 where if this law were accepted, you'd change the market, and you bring us into the regulated terms means all three categories and production and distribution and the distribution and supply of heat energy, so someone in this case your proposal would be called HERA, and now you have this item of 6 in which you say extremely of the provisions, so you mention paragraphs 1, 4 and 5 of this article, when the amount of heat energy for space heating, for your own needs by a non-houser, amounts to less than 50% of the total heat energy consumption, the price of energy activities provided by this law is freely, and I'm sure that you can't be interested in having any of which you at any time that you'll be able to use this kind of money, which you'll be necessary, or at any time. Well, me and that fact where you're not sure is talking in favor that we don't need to abolish the market in the heat sector because we're showing up and let's say that, let's say that, because there are new power plants that are also from the renewable energy system where they don't know where with their heat and, in some ways, in some parts of the country, there's a possibility that, together with local self-government, there's a certain kind of thermal system and that this energy is being sold on the market. And here I don't think it would be good to go with regulation because the theoretically this price of thermal energy, I don't know in let's say the Grubish field can be completely different from the price in Zagreb, then why is it regulated for the whole of Croatia, and precisely prescribe that it has to be that and then the market can show that it can be cheaper there and more expensive in Zagreb. This is about the dilemma that is being imposed by reading the materials that you have given in the debate and regarding this bill, because of everything I have already said, especially this part of the heat market, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support this bill and I personally think that you yourself are not clear whether the market should be abolished or not from these facts that you could not even answer when I specifically asked you for the articles and items you have proposed yourself, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145162	Thank you, too. Now intervention on behalf of the promoter, colleague Slaven Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145163	Thank you very much. The esteemed colleague Totgergeli, therefore, is the first divisor, which actually measures exclusively temperature, therefore also based on the heating body on which it is based, can be defined so-called. impulses over time because it records of course and time and then distributes spent energy in the facility to individual heating bodies that, of course, reach consumers. I said that such a way of distribution is basically not bad, what's bad is that it's imposed as a short-term commitment. For a small Croatian market where there was no opportunity to install even divisors before or very little, in a short time it meant a large collection, so there was a gift-mar and actually the citizens paid something more important than they could have been legally resolved. That's the first one. As far as markets are concerned, what kind of market where you have one that can deliver heat, it's actually a monopoly. Therefore, if you deprive regulation, such a system raises the price because it says it is its price and that is the point. So regulated market or monopoly, I don't know what's better because I know about many entrepreneurs in Zagreb, companies that were on heat because they were shocked by the price change and they saw themselves invest in their own sources of heat energy and in a year, two get rid of someone who has huge amounts of heat and it's normal that as in cogeneration that he can be cheaper but the system that we care about, where he's doing business in a comfortable way he created the conditions in which they raise prices as you like. As for the new heat generators, yes, someone might think of building a boiler room to say fuel from waste, says so no problem, the law will enable, the power below 100 kW, you don't need any permits and you're burning any fuel from waste and everyone happy, you have the market, he says I'll produce heat for that price because of course he'll charge for the RDF, these are the conditions today because it's all expensive backwards. So we have to protect ourselves as a society from such new heat sources, that's for sure. The other thing that can happen somewhere, you mentioned cities, there's probably an example where I allow it to become a healthy market, but right now I don't see it, so the law put us in a position that's not great. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145164	Thank you, too. Now my colleague Grumoja is finally on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST but since my colleagues are gone, he loses his right to debate, and that is how I conclude the discussion of the Proposal for a Law on Heat, first reading, P.Z. No. 450 and we'll vote on the law when the conditions are met. I also announce that the continuation of the session on June 26th at 9am and 30 minutes with the Final Proposal for the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 610. I wish you all a pleasant holiday, work or whatever you already have until next Wednesday, nice hello. SESSION Interrupted at 14.11 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-19-0.u145165	Proposal for a Heat Act, first reading, P.Z. Number 450. The proposer is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Proposal for a Law on Heat is not accepted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 73 for, 9 abstentions and 15 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. Before we go to the first point, I would just like to ask you to see that we bring together the debate on the next two points, so these are the second and third points, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on subsidisation of housing credits, second reading and the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouraging Building, as well as the second reading. In the first reading, these proposed laws had a united discussion, so I suggest that we do the same thing in the second reading, are you in agreement with this proposal? If you don't mind, then we've confirmed it and now we're moving to the first item of the agenda, it's: - Final proposal of the Missing Persons Act in the Homeland War, second reading, P.Z. No. 610 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on War Veterans and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on War Veterans. I would now ask that on behalf of the promoter further explain the law of the respected Croatian Defence Minister Tomo Medved, Minister, please.
