ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179605	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a law that aims in a special way to evaluate the role and sacrifice of Vukovar in the Homeland War as extremely important in Croatia's recent history. Namely, Vukovar is a symbol of resistance, sacrifice, joint and defence sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War, and therefore recognises the need to declare the Vukovar area as a special homeland pitet. In addition to keeping a permanent memory of the victim in the Homeland War, we want to preserve the memory culture of the Vukovar victim by declaring Vukovar a place of special homeland pitet and encourage activities aimed at the social development of the Vukovar area. This will create a framework for the special national status of Vukovar. Croatian citizens have not been recorded since the end of World War II due to the persistent resistance of Vukovar defenders and because of cataclysmic destruction and human casualties in Europe, have recognized Vukovar as a symbol of resistance, courage, patriotism, community, sacrifice. Vukovar has an extremely important symbolic and fateful place in the history of today's Croatian state, in the formation of a modern Croatian cultural and national identity. Vukovar became a symbol of Croatia's young state and the struggle of Croatian peoples and Croatian citizens for freedom, national independence and territorial integrity. A major Serbian aggression on Vukovar in 1991 and the city's many years of occupation left deep and lasting consequences on its rich historical and cultural heritage, especially in its demographic picture. The analysis of the situation in particular of historical, economic and demographic circumstances has shown the need to determine the specific status of the Vukovar area. The law promotes a systematic approach to the monitoring and promotion of various aspects of social development and the establishment of mechanisms to enable concrete development measures to be taken. For these reasons, this proposal of the Vukovar Act is declared the place of a special country petite with two key objectives. The establishment and preservation of the memory culture of the Vukovar victim and activities aimed at the social development of the Vukovar area. The legal proposal defines the concept of a special homeland pitet and the area it relates to, which is the town of Vukovar and the village of Bogdanovci. The law recognises and defines both the places and the period, or the day of the special national petticoat from November 17th to November 20th, and how to mark a special country pitet. Since this law is within the framework of a package of measures directed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards the city of Vukovar, I remind you that in the Law on Holidays and Unworked Days, the 18th November was declared the Day of Remembrance of all the victims of the Homeland War. Among other things, the National Memorial Hospital Vukovar has been defined as a special pitet, in which, apart from health activities, there is also a memorial educational activity with the purpose of promoting the value of the Homeland War, as recognised in the proposal for a Law on the transfer of founding rights over the General County Hospital of Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital to the Republic and which the Government referred to in the parliamentary procedure. The Memorial cemetery of victims of the Homeland War has been defined as the central place for the award of a special homeland petite and also the central place of honour to the national victim in establishing the independence of the Republic of Croatia. The marking includes the development of educational activities and the preparation of professional and educational materials with the purpose of meeting students and other visitors of Vukovar with historical facts about the Homeland War and preserving the memory of the role of Vukovar in the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia. The law provides for the establishment of an inter-resor body, the Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development of 17 members appointed by the Government of the Republic, who are representatives of the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the Government, the Committee of the Croatian Assembly for War Veterans, the Ministry of Croatian Defence, the Ministry of Demography, the Family, Youth and Social Policy, the Ministry of Science and Education, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of the Interior, the Public Institute of the Memorial Centre of the Homeland War Vukovar, the Croatian Memorial-Documentation Centre, the Foundation for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County, the city of Vukovar and three representatives of Croatian defenders and victims from the Homeland War. The Council shall monitor the construction, arrangement, maintenance and any further intervention in places where a special domestic pitet is marked and may propose measures and activities to the competent authorities to protect them and to monitor their implementation. One of the council's goals will certainly be to resolve the long-standing property status of all localities that are recognised in the law, and especially here I will single out Ovcara's locality, Velepromet's locality, Borovo Commerce's locality. The Council also conducts research activities in cooperation with institutions, the Memorial Centre of the Homeland War, the Institute of History with the aim of preserving and promoting the truth about the Homeland War and historical memory of the role of Vukovar in defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia. The Council may propose to the Government and other measures aimed at the development of the area of specific homeland petite as well as measures to build and maintain peace and monitor their implementation. The Council shall monitor the regulations and legislative and other activities of the competent authorities which apply or which apply to the area of the specific domestic pytetic and may propose appropriate measures to the competent authorities. The president and council members are appointed by the government of the Republic of Croatia on a time of four years. An important role in the celebration of the Day of Special Homeland Pitet is also the public institution Memorial Center of the Homeland War Vukovar which organizes educational educational visits to primary schools in Vukovar, and reminds me that this is an annual level of about 40,000 students and that this is actually the only place in the Republic where all students of the 8th grade come with the goal of learning about the Homeland War and the Battle of Vukovar. The funds for the implementation of this law shall be provided in the state budget and in the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. With this law, the emphasis is placed on preserving the memory of the death of Vukovar and the entire Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War and on the implementation of educational, scientific research, economic and other activities aimed at the social development of the Vukovar area. The law stresses the importance of respecting Article 8. The constitutional law on national minorities and provisions of the same shall be incorporated with a view to respecting Croatian peoples and members of national minorities, developing understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. Vukovar is a place of destruction and desolation, so its meaning stems from the practical life of the Vukovar experience and messages sent to all who heritage Croatian freedom and independence rooted in Vukovar, but also in many other places and areas where Croatia has defended and defended itself. Vukovar in 1991 is not only the past, it is the future of Croatia. I believe this law will have a positive impact on the social development of the Vukovar area and on the stabilisation and preservation of peace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179606	I thank the Minister. Before we go to replicas, I would like to welcome the students and pupils of the Antun Matijašević Karamaneo High School from Vis. Welcome. Let's go to the replicas now. First fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179607	Thank you very much. The Vukovar place of a special pitet, Minister I ask you, you mentioned in your speech the great Serbian aggression. Why is it not mentioned in the law in any sentence of great Serbian aggression? And I think that's where we're going to put this law and what's first reading. And I'd ask you one more time, why Article 3 is prescribed Article 8 of the National Minority Rights Act when we know that there needs peace, there don't need provocations by you know who, which is why the protests are organized. You know what that means when someone puts together where the hero Blago Zadar died when he puts a Cyrillic record on it that says that Serbs feel in Croatia. We don't mind the Cyrillic, but in Vukovar you know who provokes with that letter and you know that the mayor of Penava threw the Statute under his feet on a Cyrillic letter, so your answer please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179608	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179609	Dear Representative Bulj. So once again, we point out that there have also been discussions on the Veterans Committee, so this law is not possible to amend the provisions of the organic law of Article 8, but it is a mechanism that will develop an appropriate model of problem resolution concerning the content of Article 8 and is primarily referring to the work of the councils that we have foreseen to establish through this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179610	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179611	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You and with this bill of law show what you are constantly witnessing that Croatian defenders are the cornerstone of the creation of an independent Croatian state and Vukovar as a place of special homeland pite. What you specifically pointed out was the National Memorial Hospital in Vukovar, and it was precedentd since July 1991 that the aggressor was targeting the hospital, and yesterday Dr. Vesna Bosanac pointed out here in the Croatian Parliament as well as in '91. As of today 2019, doctors and medical staff do not view religion and nation because hatred destroys those who direct it, not those to whom it is directed. And so it is well known who is the winner, and who is the aggressor and these two bill proposals are in favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179612	Do you want the minister's answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179613	Certainly distinguished representative Celic in a package of measures that this government recognises towards the city of Vukovar under this law where the entire area of the town of Vukovar is defined and its death is particularly isolated and hospitalized and therefore we have sent a bill to the County Hospital and the Hospital of Croatian Veterans to be appointed and positioned as the Memorial hospital of the Homeland War under the Ministry of Health. And in this way we send strong support from the government by the government towards the hospital, according to the victim that was submitted to that hospital during the great Serbian aggression.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179614	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179615	Dear Minister. I'm interested in the answer to two questions. The first question is, but I want the Croatian public to hear loudly and clearly whether this law addresses the reason for the launch of this issue, means that Vukovar is declared the place of country petite, which is bilingualism, is the problem of bilingualism being solved? And will he, for example? Marijan Zivkovic to be satisfied with the proposal of this law? Marijan Zivkovic is a man who was tried for breaking bilingual plates and lost two sons in the fight for Croatian freedom. So is the issue of bilingualism being solved in Vukovar by this law, yes or no? And will Marijan Zivkovic be pleased with this bill?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179616	Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179617	Dear Representative Zekanovic. First of all, I would like to make it very clear that the proposal for this law was made in close cooperation with the associations of the originals from the Homeland War area of Vukovar, with the mayor and all associates of the mayor of Vukovar, that I personally spoke to Mr. Zivkovic on several occasions, since you mentioned Mr. Zivkovic and that the final proposal sent to the Croatian Parliament was in line with the town of Vukovar, with associations operating in the area of the town of Vukovar. And as for your question regarding Article 8 of the Constitutional Law, the answer is the same as I told Agent Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179618	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179619	Thank you very much. Dear Minister. After three years of our promise, we have received before us this bill. I wonder in all that when we look at what's new, there's only one more council, another commission that should do something in the future that's not defined, everything else already exists. You just named this already existing what the people, the initiative, local self-government created there. I don't see any new contributions here. What I have seen, which is that when a foreign delegation arrives, the state flag of that country will be highlighted, and I wonder, if the president of the Republic of Serbia comes, will you point out the national flag of the Republic of Serbia at the site of the disaster? Is this then the marking of a special piteous place? In this way, if it is interpreted this way, then we will have a great disappointment from the Croatian people, and especially from Croatian defenders who fought and died for Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179620	Thank you. Here's the minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179621	Dear Representative Panenic. I am sorry that you should know the good situation in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County and I am sorry that you did not recognize what is important through this bill. I believe that you are well aware of the situation in Ovcara, the state of Veleport, so what exactly catastrian is entering that area, in which the way it has been regulated in all these 28 years, which is where it was built, on which legal frameworks have arranged this mention, so a whole series of measures that have not been regulated so far all these years have been regulated by this bill. As for the flag, the flag rises at the Memorial Cemetery when a delegation comes to honor the foreign volunteer who defended the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179622	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179623	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. No one will be against this law and the emphasis on the role and the piety of Vukovar, but what I think should absolutely stand in the law to exclude the issues of Vukovar, tragedy, pride and all that is related to that city from election campaigns. So it's for us to tell you, and I'm asking you to come here as a representative of the HDZ in every campaign you don't really raise the issue of Vukovar quite conveniently. So this could have been solved as a colleague said three years ago, an initiative was launched, and we could have solved it multiple times. I believe that we can avoid campaigning, that people don't feel like HDZ is only pushing it when they need it, that it's only then important, like when the president says she was taking unborn children to Vukovar in '98, And we know it's the first [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The child got a few years later. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179624	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179625	Dear Representative Maras, I absolutely reject the thesis that this is in any way related to any form of campaign. The government's decision, which was in Vukovar 3 years ago, and the conclusion that this government will pass a law that will define the Vukovar area as a special country petite. A whole series of meetings and working groups and an analysis of the situation and recognition that will be incorporated into this law or be incorporated into some other laws, I remind you that among other things in the proposal of this Act it was November 18th, which was ultimately regulated by the Law on Holidays, that in this law, there was also a Memorial hospital in the debate of the working groups, so you can recognize through this whole package of measures that the government proposes to fully consider the Vukovar issue and the relationship to Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179626	Thank you. Here you go, pal Panenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179627	Thank you very much, Your Honor. On behalf of the Independent Youth List Club, I am looking for a break since I was appointed to speak on behalf of the club, according to the minister, it turns out that I am ignorant, that I have no idea about the state of the city from which I finally came and I need to consult my colleagues to actually see what it is in law that the minister so strongly represents that it is new. In my opinion, everything and one item that we have besides the new commission is something that exists, something that came from the heart of people, in the end, people themselves organized themselves. It turns out now that the minister thinks the state should take over all this together. That it should be taken from those people, from the association that formed Ovcaru who fought financially, in the end it will only be that the law is a tool that will be taken away from the defenders together. So one day, as we had an amendment to the statutes that the HDZ City Council was changing for a post on the supervisory boards, so one day this commission will, when it's politically appropriate, adopt some new rules and take away all the expensive things that people have fought there. The ministers didn't fight here in Zagreb, you know, and that's why I personally consider it, and I will advise my colleagues that this is actually embarrassing. That what we must say is that the adoption of this law is exclusively within the struggle for the current post of president, the president of what they are trying to do by ruling, and that we who live there will only after all these events since 2009 when it started to remain in the merciless political elites that every few people feel should resolve the issue of the city of Vukovar, the inhabitants, the defenders and all those who are struggling there to survive and live there. In this way we actually express, I express my doubts, and this is what I will consult with my colleagues, that we will not achieve any of these goals and that by adopting this law nothing better will be in the life of the city of Vukovar or its citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179628	Stanka approves. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179629	Thank you very much. Also on behalf of the MOST Club, I am looking for a break of 10 minutes and when we talk about Vukovar, I would also like to say that Vukovar and the Vukovar victim are not used exclusively as pre-election fuel. These victims, their cry do not deserve, do not deserve that only in these times when campaigns are being fueled to talk about these people and to make promises, and in fact these laws are key things and key problems, and these are the criminals who walk free in Vukovar, the cry of Vukovar was also the protest organised by the mayor of Penava. Then he avoided that protest from the ruling, where there was a cry of unresolved crime, a rapist, did not get rid of it. Here we do not solve the problem that Mr. Marijan Zivkovic was in court cast a mockery and humiliation by the judge where he was told to grieve for his two sons of heroes in silence, in loneliness. It's not the question of why a wave of disdain and provocation was triggered by, who provokes, who provokes, so no one here said roaring against Cyrillic as letters, but the fact that under the Cyrillic it was slaughtered, it worked. So the fact that on the board of the man whose brother Ivica Poljak Sokol is the commander of the Fair, the legendary commander said he wouldn't go to a police station in Vukovar, a Cyrillic plate. So that's why the wave started, because of the provocations. The mayor of Penava has thrown the statutes under his feet on a Cyrillic letter and there are no objections now. Why does the mayor of Penava now have no objections, and why is he silent? Because it's pre-election time. Does she need Cyrillic inscriptions from a gentleman, with our hero Blaga Zadre? How do Serbs live in Croatia? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179630	Thank you. Comrade Bull, thank you, the break will be approved, of course. A colleague of Djakic's you've been answering as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179631	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So the HDZ Representatives' Club is also looking for a break, but not to consult whether we support this law and have doubts whether it is pre-election or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179632	Wait a minute, just a few colleagues, what's the matter? What? Yeah, but I don't know what he's gonna say until the end... [[Did you hear what he said?]] And maybe in the second sentence, he'll say that he's still going to consult for something else. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I'm asking you not to come in. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179633	Yes, I specifically said that we are not looking for a break so that we can consult on the law whether it is for political purposes or not, as you are implying, but to further discuss in this law that it is at the right time, that it is really a law that will contribute to the debt of piety, that the places of suffering are marked, that both the logo and everything that belongs to Vukovar in the further sequence and development and progress and life and co-existence are equally defined through these legal proposals as well as sublegal acts that will be adopted for the purpose of the progress of life in that city the victim. It is not in our mind to discuss whether this law is at the right time and whether it has political implications or politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179634	Is anyone else picking up? If not, the break is up to 10 hours and 20 minutes. [[It's 10:00.02.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:21 A.M.]] We continue with the replicas, colleague Babic, here you go, it's you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179636	Thank you very much, esteemed president of HS. The Honorable Minister with the Secretary of State... And a co-worker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here is today after the proposal, the noble proposal of this law that we have announced some opposition colleagues are telling the truth that they have read this law and the very reasoning of this law in the second paragraph says that it has implemented the Declaration of the Homeland War, but, behold, they say it is not so. What I want, given that first reading reminds you. In view of the Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development and the members you spoke of, 17 members in section 4, Art. 4th century 2nd subst. from a to g, you might as well put the substituting of h-depreciation and war destruction and damage. At least that's the way to talk about it through this Council, that's my suggestion in this first proposal. Read. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179637	Here you go, Minister. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179638	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, so the jurisdiction provided for by the Council's draft law has a wide range of possibilities to suggest or propose any acts which are directed and concern areas regulated by this law, so that after the law is passed, or by forming a council, we expect the persons who will be appointed to be fully aware of all the issues related to the area regulated by this law and ultimately, among other things, and in this context of which you are talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179639	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179640	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Ministers, I hope that after this law, no Croatian institution has been called the Croatian government or the Croatian Football Federation, will give in under the pressure of some international institutions who do not want to or do not know what happened in Vukovar. In 2013 at the Croatia-Island game, fans prepared the "Remember Vukovar" transparent for days, UEFA characterised this transparent as a political message and under the pressure of the HNS, Croatian fans had to download the banner. So, what I'm saying is that due to a fine of several thousand euros, the HNS has caved in under pressure. We must therefore, therefore, institutions that advocate pitet for Vukovar not to give in to such pressures by international institutions because dignity is much greater than a few penalties.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179641	Thank you. Answer, please. No, no, no, no, no, no, Okay. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Yes, colleague Djakic, on behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179642	Thank you very much, Mr. President of HS, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a Law on the Declaration of Vukovar by the place of a special country petite, the Council for the War Veterans of the HS at its 22nd session held on 10 December 2019, discussed the proposal for a Law on the designation of Vukovar as the place of special country petite submitted to the President by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by its act of 5 December 2019. 91. The Rules of Procedure of HS. According to the proposer's representative, Vukovar has become a symbol of establishing an independent sovereign, independent and democratic Croatian state with his heroic resistance to the aggressor. Every year, in the days of memory of Vukovar's victim from November 17th, huge columns of citizens in the memory column pay tribute to the dead and missing Croatian defenders and civilians. The huge destruction of the city and the deaths of thousands of people in the large-serb aggression, the honor of which every year in the city of the dead and the missing give away tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands of people, makes Vukovar a special place. In order to restore life in the area of Vukovar in the long term of community, building, maintaining peace, economic, demographic, scientific and research activities should be encouraged. This law lays down the area to which this law, place, time and manner of marking and special country petite and the continuing activities that are related. The National Pitet, Peace and Development Council is hereby established to monitor and analyse the situation and to propose development measures for the Vukovar area. In addition to representatives of the Croatian Defence Ministry, representatives of the city of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County and associations derived from the Homeland War were involved in this legislative proposal. For the implementation of this law, financial resources shall be provided in the national budget and projections of the budget of the Republic of Croatia and to the budgetary units of the regional self-government. The discussion, members of the committee, gave the following opinions and proposals and comments. A policy attempt has been condemned by this legislative proposal, arguing that the proposal does not include the wishes and requirements for referendum initiatives for the declaration of Vukovar as a special pitetite. It has been pointed out that all the problems, including the setting up of plates in a Cyrillic letter, the official label or logo of a manifestation, cannot be solved by this law but can be resolved both by other legislative proposals and by implementing regulations and by decisions of the Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development. All crime scenes in Vukovar and around it should be marked with dignity in order to preserve the truth about the victims of defenders and civilians. This legislative proposal should be seen as a basis to enable the adoption of legislation on faster economic development of the city of Vukovar, on which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is working intensively with the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. A significant representation of Croatian defenders and victims from the Homeland War in the Council for Homeland Pitets, Peace and Development is that through the bodies of the Ministry of Defence, Parliament's Committee for War Veterans and Associations of Defence and Victims of the Homeland War. After the debate was held, the committee proposed by a majority of votes, 7 votes for and 1 abstentions, to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: "The proposal for a law on the declaration of Vukovar is accepted by the place of a special country petite. 2. Any comments, proposals and opinions presented in the debate will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal for the Law." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179643	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179644	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Medved with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. We're talking about a city hero, about Vukovar, the town of sacrifice, and, of course, when we're talking about having to drink and talk and I have to ask certain questions, although it's a good thing this is going in two readings and hopefully we'll find that solution that made the Vukovars feel terribly humiliated in the last 10 years, 20 years. I'd say first of all that before I... to begin here as parliamentary representatives, and in particular, the Veterans Committee must not manipulate even the facts, especially in the case of Vukovar and the Ministry of Defence, that we must be clear and invite all MPs to consider a permanent solution in Vukovar mainly because of the victims and hope that it will not happen as it happens exclusively and only as it is now happening in some pre-election time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I would immediately say that in this law as well as about the holiday law when it comes to Vukovar and Skabrnja, I would prefer to personally and I said that it was mentioned on Vukovar and Skabrnje to the highest level and when we talk about this Vukovar Act, I must start with chronologically with certain things. After a major protest in Vukovar in 2013 2.2., and a protest in Zagreb on 7.4.2013 that I do not count further under cover of the night we remember that bilingual panels have also taken place in Vukovar. It is known that everything happens in Vukovar. At that time, the requirement to declare the city of Vukovar a place of special pitetism towards the victims of the Homeland War. This name has been given up and the name is unanimously restricted and has come to life as the Vukovar place of the special pitet. That name has been kept to this day. We have a design and logo that's been worn for several years and carried by everyone who's been there, the directors, the guests, the people who are here. It's designed both logo and badge and everything that goes with it in mass application. Why is this important? It is important because of this Article 3 because we need to know that when it is launched, Vukovar is the place of special pitet that it was, the reaction of Mr. Marijan Zivkovic who experienced humiliation because of his two sons. I won't speak against Cyrillic here, Cyrillic is one of the letters, but in Vukovar she was in the aggressor army and people can't accept, people who were victims of this letter mostly while criminals were walking and fairgrounds, rapists, those who were... And slaughtered and burned. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is important, Article 3. The prescribed article of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities should be interpreted and applied, it should be applied, this law applies, and here it turns out that we are essentially new to this law. In addition to the Vukovar titles, the Vukovar place of a special homeland pitet, this homeland has been added compared to what has been so far. I don't know the exact reasons. We know that the country is proud, which is why the homeland and why we limit it to the homeland, we can call it the world's but it's not a sentence, but I have seen that people from Vukovar with whom I have spoken both the Association and the fairs and Željko Poljak who is a member of the Committee on Veterans external and the man who is a member of the Vukovar Fairs Association do not see the reason for this adjective to be because Vukovar is a place of special pitetate for Croatia and for the diaspora for both Europe and the world. So that should take a little bit, here's to the second reading just to explain. It is not true that the law mentions great Serb aggression. I would ask you in the articles mainly in the article where basic provisions to mention goals, to mention, to be a major Serbian aggression. I think it was not good and it was not good that it was manipulative for Plenkovic to line up with these important questions, even if it was about the chairman of the Committee of Mr. Josip Djakic and that the unanimous amendment that was passed to be the Law on, when this Day of Remembrance was on Vukovar and Skabrenj of the Homeland War, which is why the amendment was expelled, from this amendment withdrawn to be a great Serb aggression. The great Serbian aggression is the cause of the crimes in Vukovar and from any right to the club to order board members without even calling me as a member of the board to withdraw the amendment and that is manipulation for both victims and all. Andrej Plenkovic does not have the right, and neither does Colinda Grabar Kitarović to negotiate with Vukic on the recognition of Vukic, who is one of the Chetniks and aggressors to the Republic of Croatia to discuss the non-minorization of large-serb aggression. Well, no one, gentlemen, can line you up, you're MPs, to move out of the amendment voted unanimously on the Veterans Committee, and with no one calling me at the phone booth and telling me to give my position. These manipulations, gentlemen, that was about me, Djakic, Brkic or anyone. We can't bring ourselves to undo ourselves because of some kind of politics. If the amendment was not accepted, then okay, but it was accepted unanimously and why is no big Serb aggression stressed in this law? For what? Well, Vukovar didn't attack the Martians, so today, gentlemen, we had a protest last year, 2018, on the 10th of May. in Vukovar, the scream of Vukovar, to hear the scream of Vukovar, was called to that protest by the mayor of Mr. Penava. I went there, not for political reasons, we're not in the same political option, to hear the scream of Vukovar. It was then mentioned that criminals who raped, burned, killed, slaughtered, walked through Vukovar. We must first solve this problem because you know how victims feel, those who are raped alive, those who cannot find their missing, and therefore I would ask you to stress exclusively in this law great Serb aggression until the second reading. And don't listen to Vucic, president of Serbia, who is a Chetnik, neither Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic nor, but the fact is that it was a major Serbian criminal aggression. While Vukic to his criminals who commanded these worships and the greatest crimes that occurred after II. Holy shit. The war raises monuments and would in front of institutions in Serbia with the largest military delegations. I'd like you I would ask you once again that in this law, I will also say what is good in this law, and that is the only scientific research that does, which is, which makes here, a Memorial documentary centre in Vukovar and Mr. Nazor in this should be invested, the truth has to come out because as time goes away, it will turn out that the victim was an aggressor in Vukovar because we can't mention the great Serbian Chetnic aggression. [[Please, don't throw it away, let your colleague Bulj say his thing, so don't disturb him.]] Marking the place of a special country petite, you're here to list essentially, that's all so far, you've essentially sublime this law, but so far it's all being implemented. Marking period. You've put in a period of markings for four days. And the Vukovars say that Vukovar must also be a citizen of the Republic of Croatia the place of a special pietette 365 days and here you have accurately cited the days of the 17th November marking, the Day of Remembrance of the Vukovar Hospital and it is good that the hospital of Vukovar became a memorial hospital and it is a true symbol of the resistance of the Croatian people of the superhuman struggle of our physician and of the assistance of both victims and aggressor, to the people who were on the aggressor side and really what the Vukovar hospital really has to invest the most. Unfortunately, Countys that are otherwise big... in the Republic of Croatia and until now she owned the county, they didn't care enough about it and they took care of it and of course I would agree. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Again as I say, 18, the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of War and the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Vukovar and the Skabrnje. I'm sorry we don't mention Sacrifice Day here. I'm not sorry, it should have been written. Which is why we're avoiding big-serb aggression. So I don't care about the agreement either, as president of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who put the red wallpaper in front of many in Pantovčak and lined up Croatian honor, the Croatian Army honorary unit in front of the Vucica who made fun of us here. Who made fun of us. The Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development. Who threatens gentlemen, peace? There's an old saying, and that's what Churchill said, and that's a saying when you can't solve the problem because obviously this doesn't solve the problem, we know what the problem is, bilingual panels were the problem, it was the beginning, but here I stress when I talk about bilingual panels that we're not talking about national intolerance to anyone. 9,000 people from Serbian nationality were in Croatian troops, from the MUP, HOS and HV. So when we talk about bilingual plates and provocations by a man who, where he has taped a man who is a parliamentary representative and his, party or who already puts a sign on how a Serb feels, Serbs feel in Croatia, what it's like to be a Serb in Croatia. Exactly where the Treasure of Zadro died. Who threatens peace? Minister, your coalition partner. Your coalition partner. What's the question? I know how people in my area live who are Serbian nationalities, who have been in the Homeland War, who have given great pain, who are developing, but to provoke the end of the victims like this is more than tragic. What peace, who creates unrest? Who's causing a riot in Vukovar? Are the victims or the criminals? Whether the unhappiness of the institutions that we had to do, we had an obligation to solve war crimes and those who raped and those who burned, those who killed and not only met without an apology, where they disappeared and did not meet and negotiate with Vukic, Chetnik A. Vukic, the Greater-Serb, the aider of V. Seselj in the aggression of the Republic and meet at the highest level, give him, he will of course bring flowers to our Presidents then, receive him into the Republic without the names of the missing. Our missing. So how do these people in Vukovar feel? And by this law we do not resolve it, we colleagues and colleagues if we are to find consensus and calm the victims and the unsustained, the missing, we must find a way and only then pass this law how the article of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities in the area of Vukovar, how this question of bilingualism is resolved. We have to, this isn't a question of SDP, HDZ, Most of us, because otherwise this law doesn't solve anything, nothing. There will still be unrest, and M. Pupovac will still be putting these bilinguals on, putting Cyrillic inscriptions on the dead of our heroes to provoke, your coalition partner, and we won't solve anything. Here's the minister, I hope you'll be able to solve the problem by the second reading, because this law is essentially nothing new.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179645	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Marijana Balic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179646	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished Croatian Defence Ministers Mr. Medved with his associates, distinguished MPs and MPs. At the very beginning, I would like to point out that the HDZ Representatives' Club will support the proposal for a law on the declaration of Vukovar as the site of a special country petite. I believe that the meaning of the city of Vukovar in Croatia's recent history does not need to be particularly emphasized. This city hero who represents a symbol of resistance, sacrifice and unity in the righteous and defensive Homeland War lies in the heart of all of us who treat him with due and deep respect, but it should be kept in mind that Vukovar is not just a column of memory or the marking of a place of suffering or only a mere memory. Vukovar is a city whose population deserves special attention in terms of providing development strategies to further develop and become a desirable city for young people who would build their lives there and raise a family. Of course, the above cannot be achieved on its own but it is necessary to think strategically and provide activities that would encourage the desired processes, with an emphasis on setting the basis for future development in particular in economic and demographic terms. Since I am Vukovar myself, I welcome the fact that the analysis of the situation as well as the historical, professional, economic and demographic circumstances has highlighted the need to determine the specific status of the Vukovar area. Especially the joyous fact that by declaring Vukovar an area of special homeland petite we are doing an additional step forward, we are creating a legal framework for the special national status of this city. So we make two extremely important things to unite, to preserve the lasting memory and memory of the submitted sacrifice in the Homeland War, and to encourage social development in all relevant aspects. Speaking of the financial effects of the law, it is important to point out that its implementation will not require additional costs but only those foreseen for the same purpose. In addition, the possibility of future financial impacts is envisaged but will be decided on depending on the observed needs. From the opening presentation of the Minister, we heard more about the area concerned by the law, places of periods and ways of marking a special homeland pitet, as well as the establishment of a special inter-resor body, but let me point out some of the things that are mentioned and important again. I believe that it is particularly important for the prominent and it is in the law that, during the celebration of the day of the homeland pitet, it will include a number of educational activities for students and students and other interested persons. This move adds to the preservation of memories and memories of all those who are no longer with us and who have bred or caused great pain in the creation of our independent, independent, modern and democratic state as we know it today. On the same track, I welcome the fact that students, students and other visitors who come to the city of Vukovar in order to learn about the values of the Homeland War and the Battle of Vukovar will actively visit the Public Center of the Homeland War Vukovar, which is once again extremely important that war casualties are not forgotten and never repeated. Let me please quote from word to word a part of the law that speaks of what a special country piety is essentially. Namely, it represents a special respect for the dead and missing Croatian defenders from the Homeland War in Vukovar and for all Croatian defenders from the Homeland War who defended freedom, democracy and unity of the Croatian people, for all civilian victims of the Homeland War and Vukovar, for the symbol of resistance, courage, community and peace, who suffered great human losses and destruction of material goods and cultural heritage during the armed aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the Homeland War. By reading this definition, I believe it is not necessary to add and interpret what the proposed law represents and what it will mean to the Vukovars and the Vukovars. Dear colleagues and colleagues, many years have passed but there is still that pain that unfortunately will never go away. I think I don't have to specifically explain why this bill is covered with the deepest emotions for me. She almost dared to say that by adopting him, we will preserve all those who are no longer with us in eternity because they will never be forgotten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179647	The next Club of Representatives is that of Croatian sovereigns and independent representatives Zeljko Glasnović and Zlatko Hasanbegovic, and time will be shared by the respected representative Zekanovic and Glasovic. First of all, the respected representative of Zekanovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179648	Honorable ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I just asked you a question in the replica, I didn't get an answer. Now I don't see you from my colleague Bačić, I wish we had that visual contact. So, Mr. Minister, will the problem of bilingualism be solved by this law? I'll do it one more time. Will plates still be placed in Vukovar on Cyrillic and Latin? And I will remind you that the reason for this law was the problem of bilingual panels in the city of Vukovar or bilingualism in general. That's what my colleague Balic knows. So this wouldn't have been the case if it hadn't been for that problem, it wouldn't have been said about this if Mr. Marija Žiljkovic, the father of two dead Croatian defenders had not broken a Cyrillic plate and was later sued and persecuted. So, I'm sorry you didn't answer me earlier, but now that I've been exposed, you have a chance to come back here, so be brave and say it. Be brave as you were in the war brave, here's what I call you because you were, that I know you were, that's what everyone says. And thank you for that. And now here, bravely and loudly and clearly say that the Croatian public hears, the problem of bilingualism will not be solved, and the Croats will still be harassed by Cyrillic plates all over Vukovar, Cyrillic statutes and you know it. So come here and tell me, we're passing a law that won't solve the problem that this law is designed for and that's the problem of bilingualism. As for the pitetus, Vukovar is already a special place for all Croatian patriots, citizens, Croats and Croats, both for you and for me. And all of us who can appreciate the sacrifice of Marijan Žiljkovic and all the other Croatian defenders, already have Vukovar in our heart and is already the place of a special homeland pitet. But that doesn't matter, I'm not saying it's a bad bill, but it's important to solve the problem of bilingualism and this bill doesn't solve it. That's why I'm calling you and here's after my colleague, Glasovic, is finished with his piece of debate, to say it here. Say sorry no. Be what you were in the war. Be brave, be a soldier and say yes or no. I know the answer but I want you as minister to give him the answer to me as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian people that Croats and Croats throughout Croatia hear the answer to this question. I won't be long, although I thought I'd say something else, but I'll leave it to my colleague Glasnović, I expect you here at the pay phone after my colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179649	Dear Representative Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179650	Dear colleagues, there are few of us here, it is evident how much we respect the victim of Vukovar, rhetorical questions, please gentlemen, after ironing, listen to me here, be patient when you watch Turkish soap opera and shut up, this is not a Turkish soap opera but an important law. Questions again, rhetorical questions, is Vukovar even a symbol of the Homeland War? Was our victory in the war... Victory, pirate Victory, why do I ask that? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because they're sitting in this House people who don't know who attacked them are sitting in this House and I don't know who they're acting on. And this is just an act of people who still don't know that they were attacked by that Yugoslav army plus the Chetniks who switched, '45. They swapped out the five-point coke, and in this war, they replaced the five-point gambling, and that's what people are silent about here, and we're acting, and there's still talk out there that this was a civil war. Is there any regulation in that law on who attacked us at all? Is it prescribed in this law, is the word great Serbian imperialism and great Serb aggression mentioned? Why does it matter? Because the past hasn't passed, now the Serbs are going to beat us with Agitprop, the movies, the movies, we're doing movies, we're silent, we've got how many, 140 croaks in HAZ, in JAZ, we still don't have the official history of this war, let alone II. svt. The war. Yes, this great Serbian imperialism, not fascism that killed from 1912 to 1941. 100,000 people in these areas mostly in peace, then came II. svt. War. And where did this war end? Kosovo, where the Balkan War began when it was large-serb... killed 40,000 Albanians and others. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yeah, the solution is always the answer to the source, it's ignored here all the time, let's go back to Vukovar. I don't know if the minister knows, I respect the minister, it's not easy for him, we know that he has a light PTSD who we all do but there's even a poster, if there's a poster in Vukovar for the Vukovars killed in '45. The year in April when those snotty partisans came after the winter front and what started, Vukovar was then... What's going on in this war, nobody knows about it, they keep quiet about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why are we keeping our mouths shut about this? April 12, '45. in Vukovar, killed about two hundred of the most natural people, it's an aristocid, wherever the communist government came, it killed what was best, 10% of these most valuable people killed, including the bishop's father, the Iceman, that we don't talk about the Germans, there was a Michael Pjac, a teacher, he was just a teacher, nothing else, killed him, the gathering sites, were around the assembly camps, this Elc castle was a gathering camp, a gathering camp, but ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, former communists, juzomboids, Yugoslavists, when you ever heard that thousands, thousands of German civilians, women and children, were killed in Valp's camp. Is crime justified by crime, that's a rhetorical question. 60,000 Germans were killed more in camps waiting for extradition, civilians, not prisoners of war, that, why are we forgetting that? How about all of this, our public defender and other Qumrovian students who today fake Croatian history, keep silent about it, there's Mr. Bear, he knows how many mass graves they've dug up, so far dug up. What do you think this, this Miss Vidovic, I think, Miss Vidovic, Miss Godfather's student, is he... in Kumrovec, I don't know, it seems to me that she, who she protects, protects from the truth, protects us from the truth, so there are mass graves around Zagreb, so who did all this, who did all this, what was it? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] You have a military court of the City of Zagreb command who killed half of Zagreb, people were shot and an ex post factor tried to get into other people's apartments, other people's apartments. And you know who did it? Vlado Ranogajac, head of military OZNA, he has a poster on Jarun, a poster on Jarun, that's not interested in Mr. Djakic,... On the phone, it says Vlado Ranogajac, sports worker, sports worker, yes. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did the Vukovars die in our second country, BiH? Yeah, Robert Zadro and the others, and we're attacking today, these zombies, these, I don't know what to call them, the Grgans, I don't know a name for these people, they don't have a nationality, it's an analytical bogeyman, they say today. HVO without which there would be no 4... Croatian countries. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is just a play for them, this is a play for them,... They only respect the bloody locksmith and she, those characters of Ashtarot, Bilzibub and Lucifer, they are their Marx, the Holy Trinity, the Marx, the Engels and the bloody locksmith, this is for them only an act, they do not accept this truth. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] While we still have thousands of mass graves to put that barricade between HV and HVO, President Tudjman always spoke Croatian forces, Croatian forces and some pain that the minimumer there goes for the dead... from HVO, and there, there's a hero, a hero war from Vukovar, Marko Babic knew it was a unique battlefield, a unique battlefield, and we're forgetting that and now we're making the law. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The defense committee where Mr. Culey is sitting in the hall, where you have a picture, a wall, a mass murderer of OZNA, a dungeon of the Croatian people and there is a meeting of the Veterans Committee, so what do I have to say here, what do we talk about? These heads, in their lives, were on their backs, on the back of the people, having cottages at sea, basements in Zagorje, living like Galapagos turtles in the 100th century. And today we are discussing the Vukovar. Why is Vukovar a symbol of the Croatian state? Why? If we knew this was going to end this way, would anyone have picked up a gun in '91? that we knew that we would be taken over by the staff and the left, the right wing of the party, sad, sad. What would Robert Zadar, his father, say about this, these other werewolf heroes? What would they say about that? Antunovic, the Bosnian also fought, the werewolf defender, how did he end up? We have to individualize that suffering because it's not 2,000 killed, Ovcara, but it's thousands, thousands of times one, every single name is a tragedy within itself. What about the other Vukovars? Brisevo, have we forgotten what happened in BiH? That in BiH, 98% of the crime, violations of international human rights, crimes were committed by Chetniks, paramilitarys and so on. JNA. Yeah, we're forgetting that. And outside, for our inertness, autism, the autism of our diplomacy, we're not generally proactive, most people out there today in other countries don't know anything about Vukovar, nothing, this is still being fought as a civil war. What about the schools in Vukovar and what history is being studied there? Who's there? I don't know, it can be said by the Minister this, Medved, I don't know, whether Dian Jovic lectured at the military school il Jakovina and Makovina and these characters, I'm not sure, but he wants us to have history in schools lectured by this Dodig Tersalić and the great patriarch Irinej, they'll teach us history and fake history, and we're guilty here or the state itself who pays to falsify its own history, she has no future, there's no future, here, here's here, let's talk about other victims, Croatian victims. Here, the magazine “Political Prisoners, ” these people were enslaved 2-3 years old, 4 years old, some 10 years old. for joke, they have their own association, they write, they love the Croatian state, they love the Croatian state, they fight for the truth, and we all have to fight for the truth is this, this, this law, if we don't write our history, real history, not just Vukovar, but Homeland War and World War II, it's just seizing and kissing someone. Here's the minister, I wish you the best, and I hope God you dig up as many mass graves as possible, communist crimes, I know you're working on it, but at this rate we'll be done by 2050.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179651	The next Club of Representatives is that GLAS on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179652	Dear Mr Vice President, Mr. Minister with Associates, on behalf of the Citizens' Liberal Union Club, I would like to immediately declare that we support the idea that a special law defines the status of the city of Vukovar. What we want to point out here is that when adopting such a law, it is primarily necessary to answer the fundamental question of what it wants to achieve, or what ambitions the promoter has asked. If you ask us we are the view that these ambitions are quite tight and that there is a space where these ambitions can develop quality primarily not because we who have been livingly washing our consciences including everything, all the leaderships of the Republic of Vukovar since the death of Vukovar to this day, but to ensure the future of the people of Vukovar. To actually create conditions for the city to live and develop, and for those living in it to live with dignity and as happy as possible. Vukovar is in a lot of things, not just the symbolic greatest victim in the Homeland War of our entire republic. Werewolves, and several thousand of them have been killed or disappeared and are still being tracked down, there's no telling where their earthly remains are. The sacrifice is the greatest symbol of the peace of the Croatian nation and ethnic and political. Because that sacrifice was actually the most powerful proof of opposing the idea of evil, the idea of war, the idea of man's madness and crazy concepts that wanted to end not only history but also the future of this part of the world. In this sense, Vukovar also has the historical and symbolic capacity to become practically the brightest example of the need to constantly advocate peace. And as such, he is proof that war is mankind's greatest evil. What we want to remind you is that Vukovar as a city has always done and made humans and that it has been produced through the centuries and that before the Homeland War it was the most beautiful cities, in cities where the most beautiful and quality of life lived. It was a product of generations and generations. It is a place, a place where there is a human-organized life for several thousand years, but certainly a constant history is followed by that famous charter of Slavonic Herzek Coloman, which, in 1231, gave Vukovar and then Vukovar the status of a free royal city. And what's very important is that he granted privileges between others and the right to settle strangers. So, since the 13th century, we have a constant settlement of that space, and especially after the anti-Turkish wars when the whole of Pannonia remains demographically empty and it is not a waste to remember that this area has been developed and cultured by those who settled in it especially in the 18th and 19th centuries. And that's why in revitalization of Vukovar history to prove that his identity and importance was strong before the great Serbian aggression crushed him physically, but never emotionally, nor really. So, that there were generations and generations and giants involved, whom Croatia has pride in, who are proud of. First of all Vukovar grew up in the main center of Srijem thanks to the countess.../incomprehensible/... who did not get anything on the gift, they all bought the werewolf property and other properties, a total of 35 settlements. To this day, not a small portion of that property was returned to them, and they were taken away from them in 1920 and 1945. Count Eltz at the opening of the city museum was assigned in 10 or 15 rows, which is his parents' house. That's how we treated them. It is the city of Lavoslav Ružička, a Croatian Nobel, that is the city of Julia Diamanta, a Jewish rabbi who was killed in Auschwitz. It is a city of many prominent Croatian giants both in culture and in sport, all the way to new heroes. A hero who unfortunately had to become a living in the defense of the city. From Sinisha Glavasevic, Blaga Zadre and many others who were almost with their bare hands, and some tried only in words and eventually managed to resist the army and force that wanted to retaliate the city 800 years old. When we talk about bilingualism, we're hypocrites here, we're selfish. We consider this question only in some current context and Vukovar and his history deserve not only the statute but also much more, not only on the Croatian who is and will be the foundation and identity and the framework of his history and future but also on Serbian and Cyrillic, but also on German, both in Hebrew and in Judaism, equally in the Czech as well as in Russian and also in Ukrainian. Those who use Cyrillic in Vukovar lived 8,000 years ago were not Serbs, but it is less important. If we want to give the pitet to Vukovar, then let's give him a pitet in a way that respects all his history, his ancient history, at least 800 years of age, which allowed him to grow up in that beauty that great Serb aggression tried to destroy and crush in '91. A year. Have we done enough? Will this law change the living conditions of the Werewolves? Will it improve, make it easier for him to live, or are we simply offering them one moral help and satisfaction? As for us, we would be happy if, with this form of satisfaction and recognition, Vukovar was allowed to live better and better in the future. Just from last presidential election to today, 3,500 people have moved from Vukovar. The city is losing its people. For example, why is Vukovar not the headquarters of the Central Museum of Homeland War in Croatia? Why isn't it the center of the Homeland War Memorial? Why is he in Zagreb? Why isn't Vukovar in light of his history, the archaeological treasure he has, near Vinkovaca, why isn't he the headquarters of an archaeological institute? Why isn't it the seat of permanent summer archaeological schools? Why isn't the werewolf hospital we're going to talk about at the next point, in the meantime, becoming a university hospital? Why didn't we remember to build in Vukovar, to turn Vukovar into a university center, to bring young people there? To build a new facility for the construction of medical personnel. The Vukovar hospital is the only one in Europe that can currently say that it has a direct experience of war medicine. Could we have done more? We did. Shall we? The question is whether we have the strength, whether there is political will, or what we are actually doing with such proposals is only part of what is expected of us. Why wouldn't Vukovar be the head office of the Ministry of Agriculture? Let us consider what we can do for the future of that city so that in 10 years those who go honoring the werewolf victims not only on November 18, but also during the year, they will not come to the city empty by people who are not welcomed, that we do not experience that the generation that is today will be the last to remain in it, that the city will not turn into a small settlement that dies but always, always, all those who come to worship the victim of Vukovar, there can welcome happier people there than those who live today, with hospitality, with a smile and with gratitude that we share the memory of the victims of their city or their fellow citizens, their fathers, mothers and others. Only by making it easier for the city to live and live in it than in other parts of Croatia because we must owe it to them, and this is achieved by different incentive measures. From tax exemption and all other givings, we will therefore preserve Vukovar as a city, a city of people who will then be able to continue to shine as the greatest monument to the Croatian struggle for peace and opposition, madness and human bestiality that wanted to wipe it off the face of the earth. We are the ones who can do this, this generation can still do something to ensure the future of that city and that responsibility is on us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179653	The next Club of Representatives is that of HSU, SNAGA, independent MPs and New Politics, on behalf of which will be spoken by respected representative Bojan Glavasevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor. The Benic and the Honorable Mr. Akmaj, Minister. The old Bosnian proverb says, "There are no lames from the charge," respect and piety simply don't work in such a way that you can prescribe them, but you can put them in law and then someone feels them. The best thing you can get is something playful, something hypocritical, something that's done out of obligation, some false honor, false compassion and fake as you say, drink. There is no human being with kindness in the heart who is faced with the magnitude of the tragedy that happened in my hometown will not feel compassion and respect. There is no one who will not feel petty, powerless and broken in front of the force of evil that took place on the Sheepchare. Show me a man who, in front of a story about the Croatian Guernica, will not only be the virtue of his humanity, feel his humanity's humility and connection with all those who defended Vukovar and who were innocent victims of great Serb aggression in Vukovar. You don't have to prescribe anything for people with heart because they want everything you want to prescribe for them, even more and more powerful than that already do. And they feel it 365 days a year, without anyone's help or the law that makes them do it. So I'm asking, who do you want by prescribing a drink to make him feel it? For whom exactly is respect prescribed? If you want to make those who hate this way, those who are indifferent in front of the Vukovar gogogue, those who participated in the torture and attempted murder and one city, I must warn you, you will not succeed. Those whose hearts are black, who have offered their humanity as a sacrifice on the altar of Milosevic, Seselj and Vukic's policies of evil are long lost, they do not hear the cry of the families of the victims, they do not hear the prayers of all of us who are still looking for our missing. They will never be interested in how we grew up Marijana Balic and I and hundreds of children of our generation whose years of laughter, innocence and peaceful childhood were kidnapped and burned at the stake of nationalist folly and hatred. Such evildoers long ago, as Vlado Gotovina said, died alone in the wilderness of his dead hearts. To such living dead people, your regulations mean absolutely nothing. The Vukovar should not be a mausoleum or a monument to itself, closed and locked in an uninterrupted reminder of the worst evil that has ever happened to him. The Vukovar should be what it has always been, the temple of life on the river carrying life, which connects it not only to all of Europe, but to the whole world. I'm afraid his country's pacifier will not bring him the future but will bring him back to the past. Homeland pitet will not care for segregation in kindergartens and schools. The country's pitet will not bring back nearly 6,000 people who have left Vukovar in the last 10 years. Homeland pitet will not remove drugs from Vukovar streets. Homeland pitet will not reduce unemployment in Vukovar. The country's pitet will not bring to Vukovar responsible local politicians who are more important to the future of the community than the Ethnomafian division of votes and parasites in nationalism and divisions. And no, the country's pitet will not remove the offensive monument to the Vulcan, nor bring justice to the victims of war crimes in Vukovar. Vukovar is not like Orpheus in Greek mythology passed through the world of the dead to become a mausoleum. He went through death to get back to life. Vukovar deserves children's smiles, happy childhoods, light-minded entertainment and joy, bargaining on the market, fishing on the Danube and the Vuka and all the other little things that life in Vukovar before the war made good and beautiful. Vukovar deserves to be the place where people want to live. He's had all the assumptions about it for thousands of years. Croatia won the Homeland War. Vukovar won the Homeland War and not only won but it was resurrected and the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia was returned without a shot fired. The peaceful reintegration of Vukovar and Croatia is the only successful UN peacekeeping mission. Isn't that exactly the contrast between the way Vukovar was stolen from us and the way we brought him back to our wing worthy of admiration? Isn't that exactly the testimony of the Vukovar Force and all its inhabitants? Here's the truth about Vukovar. Vukovar shares the fate of Croatia. If it is good in Croatia and in Vukovar it will be good, if it is bad in Croatia, it will be seen much, much more than in Zagreb or Dubrovnik or in Ogulin. If you want to make it better in Vukovar, do not put it under a glass bell, give Vukovar to live a life that lives both for the rest of Croatia and to be part of the Croatian daily life. Isn't that what we fought for? The Vukovar is stronger than you think. I believe in Vukovar and believe in Croatia, I only ask that you believe in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179655	The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, which will be spoken by the respected representative Tomislav Paneninic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179656	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues should always return to our history in passing such laws. In fact, to determine where the key problem has arisen, which is the issue of the University of Vukovar, the Cyrillic issue of its use, will not solve the expectations of the people of Vukovar who have just expected this government to offer peace in the city with its solutions. Peace in the city that died, looking back at this issue in 2009. At that time, the HDZ, which did not have its mayor to agree with the SDSS within the city council, the distribution of the place, the practical management, the quiet management of the city, changed the statutes which may have seemed harmless at the time because there was no real need because the 2001 census did not show that the Serb national minority had 1/3 of the population, and then the change itself may have been a problem for those who brought it. However, in future time it has become a problem, a problem that political elites highlight, and a problem with which the citizens of Vukovar and all of us living in the surroundings of Vukovar, which we come to Vukovar every day, must live. But I would point out only for a moment when the statute which was the composition of the city council for the decision to amend the statutes was changed, the HDZ, 11 council members, HSP AS 2 council members and the SDSS 3 council members voted. There were 13 SDP councilors against whom 5 were Serbian nationalities. It just shows that only the Cyrillic issue at the time was a political issue, that it was not an ethnic issue or a solution to the problem facing the Serb community in the town of Vukovar, but it was a political issue that broke the spear and even those who should have been unique in their view to support it were not. For a time we had an attempt to solve it as a graphic problem, so we'll put only another record and we'll solve the situation that she was putting on at the time, it was an attempt by the Government of Zoran Milanovic, all together from 2009 on here, just creating one uncertainty, one, one misunderstanding and the problem of all the people of Vukovar who need to live with it every day. What I'm trying to say is that bilingualism in the city of Vukovar is not just a matter of law or a question of some political routine, but of going much deeper. With this proposal, the minister tried to raise some awareness of the need to mark the memory of suffering, on the other hand, he also tried to bypass a problem that, not to be quiet but to erupt, and is expected of such solutions to answer the questions that remain open, but this law will not give an answer. To me as an agent when I see in the legal solution that it does not require, it does not expect from the state budget any additional costs, it is clear that it is just another law, that it does not contain novelty, but I am pleased on the other hand that this large commission established will not be at the expense of citizens. If we see its composition and there is no budget cost, I expect that in the future time it will just be so that all the members of the commission will work pro bono, that they will not have the right to certain fees, so we would remain in that item, there is no cost. Everything else is covered both now and in future by the state budget, local budgets, but here you are, I assure you, that certain costs are not paid, that there will also be the marking of the memory column, the maintenance of certain facilities because they are embedded in the consciousness of people and there is no need by law to stress importance for the Republic of Croatia. I believe that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia knows what victim the town of Vukovar has submitted for freedom of the Republic of Croatia, and if you were there, only individuals have survived it, then you would realize how much Vukovar meant and what happened in the days after the fall where Croatia was shaken, where the Serb army had progressed and really expected the collapse of the entire defence system and it was very ungrateful then to say where it would stop. Whether it will fit on some line Virovitica-Karlobag or come to Zagreb, and believe me, if it wasn't for Vukovar, it is certain that this would happen and that the int, the pride of the defenders of Vukovar showed that when it is most difficult, you can defend yourself, try to defend, stop, give others the opportunity to regroup to create a Croatian army that can refuse attacks and eventually that army has become a liberating army which has also reintegrated with its actions the entire space of the Republic. Now, if we were to speak realistically in view of the history of Vukovar's problems, we should say that those who made their decisions in 2009 should also be excluded from the debate on this issue, as well as those who violently tried to set up panels, should also be excluded because their words are no longer credible enough to ensure peace in the future or to ensure that both this law and some other law that is expected to really solve this problem can be carried out in quality and accepted by the citizens themselves. I ask you a question, if in the Law on the Rights of National Minorities it is highlighted, and within the proposed law, it must be repeated that any solution must be mutually beneficial, and this is also for the benefit of the Croatian people and for the benefit of the national minorities. I ask you, how will this law bring peace again? He brings peace in the signification of suffering; he brings peace to those who have already given their sacrifice, but also to those who are alive, he does not bring peace. And yet, as is said on the board, people are clear in their views that they will not allow at all the cost of being prosecuted again, to place bilingual panels. So I ask the question is whether it's our interest to try to achieve one right, and on the other hand to create a dissension again, to have a riot that only remains in the city of Vukovar. It will not be transferred to the city of Zagreb, it will not become a daily topic of any gathering here. It will not be discussed for coffees in the city of Zagreb, but it will be discussed in Vukovar. In Vukovar, we are talking about this topic, and if you look at the statements of the people of Vukovar themselves, what they think about it, you see one deep division, and everyone was expecting a solution, whether they are Croatian communities or from any other minority community. And somehow everyone's afraid that in a very soon time, the consensus to put up the tables will be again, so I'm going to tell you just one thought that's actually been quite striking to me and the exact name, this graphic element that's being dragged out of a time a few years ago is a mark, and it's actually marking this question if we ask the plates that are bilingual is then will it be possible to set a black Chet flag on which the Cyrillic says "Unification" or "Death"? How will the institutions of the state react then? Are they going to be a Cyrillic problem or are they going to be a flag problem or are they going to be a problem with what is set? Will sanction and remove such a single feature? Will there be political crackdowns again at all levels, even at this highest in HS? Or you should simply say that it is not acceptable to force anything, nothing that will bring additional unrest, nothing that will prevent regular life, and regular life is when you have an environment in which every entrepreneur, in which every citizen feels when he comes out on the street that he is a resident of that place, that he goes to his job to earn money, that an entrepreneur when he goes into investment is safe in his investment and that there will be no problems that will interfere with a normal life. Just the days that were supposed to be a memory of the victim have turned into already certain situations to prove who the larger Croats are, who is smaller, who is more responsible for the Republic of Croatia, who may have been the subject of obstruction of the creation of the modern Croatian state, and increasingly forgets that those who are discussing it and what media are asking about these issues are not the subject of marking days of memories, are the subject of those who have given their lives, who are known to be the place where they are buried, as well as the many who are still being led as missing, and it is extremely difficult to discuss this proposal of the law by respecting the Minister and as a fellow from the Government and his efforts to be a real representative of all the defenders, that I do not say that this law is one compromise between the tendency to appear as a modern, pre-modern state, I would even say that he will not have a single objection to his proposed law from the EuropeanCommission , from a number of the rights that we protect ourselves from all the one day that we do so much in the same way where wedo n't make ourselves in alot. Can any action that will re-launch the unrest in Vukovar stop with promises when we come to power we'll sort it all out? That is why the real question is also referred to by the HDZ, which was expected when you came to power, then you will solve the problem you created in 2009 by amending the statutes. You are expected to have the support of the SDSS in this respect if you have changed the statutes together, you are expected to have support from the SDP who has gone quickly, resolutely apply the rights, all the rights of the National Minorities Act, when you do so, then you will have the right picture of the response from Vukovar and you will know whether you have acted in the interest of the people who live there, until then inter-elections from each other actually show that it is still a purely political competition, and the moment we are discussing this first reading is more of an introduction to or already part of a pre-election campaign than it is a question of solving the memory of the victim of the city of Vukovar. There is no way that people can take away the impressions that there are now trying to show that they are more right-wing, that more Croatian than anyone who has ever been before, and it seems to me that they are trying to prove that they are more responsible for the Republic of Croatia than those who have contributed to their victim in Vukovar definitely the most and any question that opens painful wounds should have special attention, special treatment regardless of any rights that anyone has under any law. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179657	Thank you very much, before we continue to welcome you to the church choir gallery and the Yalzabet Municipality's Association of Retired People. ... And now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative of Nenad Stazic will speak, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179658	Respect, Vice President. Vukovar has its own law and the law is in force, called the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, was passed in 2001. At a time when the prime minister was Ivica Racan. It is a substantive law, a meaningful law, which regulates the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar and is said to be of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Incentive measures are taken, in particular 10 incentive measures are taken. It is the restoration of war-broken and damaged buildings, it is demining, it is the return of exiles and refugees, it is the employment and creation of new jobs, it is the introduction of information technologies, it is technical technological modernisation, the development of entrepreneurship, etc. This law also established a Fund for the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar. So some means have been spent, and unlike this law, which says he's not demanding, he doesn't require any funds at all. The founder of this fund in 2001 is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the head office of the Fund is in Vukovar. And the activity of the fund is defined, it is the reconstruction and development of the city of Vukovar. Specific measures, the law says, will encourage the establishment and development of crafts, cooperatives, small and medium-sized companies. Students residing in the city of Vukovar have the right to grant a scholarship. The taxpayers were exempt from paying the income tax to the day of the admission of the Republic of Croatia into the EU because later these rules did not allow it. Now we have this law that doesn't ask for any funds in the budget and the law that doesn't ask for any means is completely pointless. What's Vukovar going to get? Here, for example. Article 4 of that Law defines what is a special country petite. And it reads: "A special country petitity within the meaning of this Act is a special respect for the dead and missing Croatian defenders." So there's usually respect and there's special respect. So let's say someone who died in Pakrac for him, by some kind of bomb, is only worth the usual respect for him and for this in Vukovar special respect. So that's how they write, at least, just enough to write. What is this law going to pass and what already does not exist in Vukovar? What's that in Vukovar that doesn't exist and this law is now passed? Well, I don't think there's a man, not in Croatia, but in a world that doesn't have special respect for the victims of Vukovar. I've never heard of such a fool before. Therefore, this law will not bring anything. Will the law be passed tomorrow, will it be better to live in Vukovar on Saturday? Will one, the only job open? Will someone get a little more pay? So Vukovar is a town where you make mausoleum, a tomb. Well, you can't help that town, that city is deeply divided. So there Serbian children go to Serbian kindergartens and schools, Croatian to Croatian kindergartens and schools. That's where people don't hang out at all. That town doesn't live. There's more Vukovars in Ireland than in Vukovar. They ran away from these measures of yours and yours. And now instead of building one city of community, he's arranged, Vukovar's arranged, he looks beautiful, everything there is restored except the water tower, there you haven't figured out how much money to take there, how much to grab. But there's no life in that town, there's no real life. Why don't you put the contents back in that town? Why don't you build an open, modern city, there to open up a retirement center, some big university campus, to get young people to come. Not only should there be Latin and Cyrillic, that there may be tablets in the Hebrew Scriptures, that they may be studied there; what war has brought to those who have won, and to those who have been defeated, what has the Hiroshites brought, what has he brought to Nagasaki? Japanese letters there to be on those plates? To teach young generations what a terrible war is, that the Germans are coming to talk about Dresden? That the Russians are coming to talk about Petrograd? None of these cities, nor Hiroshima or Nagasaki were legally declared piteous cities, nor Petrograd, were completely destroyed. And that's not what the communists did, they didn't, they declared us the Sutjesic area of a special pitet. 7,000 people died there, 7,000 Partizans, most Croats. It didn't occur to them to do such stupid things as you do that doesn't mean anything to anyone. Then please, come on, why just in Vukovar. And what are the victims of Skabrnje and Nadine less important? Let's, then, let's declare the entire Croatian area a special pitet, and we'll be a state of special state pitet. But there was war everywhere. And Zagreb was shelled, they wanted to kill the first Croatian president. Then why not Zagreb? And what if they killed him? What if they killed him? Couldn't one of his sons set up a homeland d.d., couldn't have a daughter open a shop in the Ministry of Defense, couldn't have a grandson open a savings facility without those three key institutions, so how would we Croats defend themselves at all? How would we defend ourselves? And they wanted to kill him, netly privatized a villa in Nazor, which was state property, let's declare Nazor the street of a special state pite. You know, I think this law is one curtain, it's like a squid ink that needs to darken space, hide the truth about Vukovar that hasn't been told yet. Why has the Marines been cut off? That's what Santakovic Hawk's testifying about. A breach was stopped that was supposed to get civilians and children out of Vukovar. It was stopped in the Marines. Why did they beat up Santakovic after the war? So is this the relationship that speaks of piety to one warrior, the defender of that city? They beat him up because he wanted to tell the truth. About Vukovar being sacrificed, so Sinisa Glavasevic speaks in her reports. He attacks the Parliament's meeting then, the then government, the President of the Republic and speaks, you betrayed Vukovar. You betrayed those people who died there. You're hot, and they're freezing, you're fed up, and they're hungry and you've made it impossible to break through the Marines, so that at least the children can be saved. Look, drinking can't be legally determined because people either feel it or don't feel it. This law is a law that you need for pre-election purposes, its benefit is a flat zero, none of it will have anything, and least of all the Vukovars.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179659	Before continuing, let's welcome the students' gallery and students of Dubrovnik's craft technical school, and now we'll continue with The club...... [[Applause.]] Comrade Zekanovic, here you go. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179660	Dear Vice President, I request a recess on behalf of the Croatian Sovereigns Club for further consultations. I have asked the esteemed minister, General of the conquering Croatian Army, twice to come out for me for a pay phone and makes it clear that the answer to the question of whether this law will address the question of bilingualism or Cyrillic plates in Vukovar. The third time, here he is, from this place as a representative at HS, I call on his Croatian minister, to come for a pay phone and answer. If he won't, I'll answer. He won't. And you know that, but I wish, here you were, as general of the victorious Croatian Army, coming here and saying what the citizens must know from you as minister, from you as a promoter. To say it loudly and clearly not, this problem, the main cause of the creation of this law is not, will not be solved by this law. So we will continue to have a problem of bilingualism and we will continue to have provocations with statutes on Cyrillic, and we will continue to have a panel set up on Cyrillic and will continue to have people like Marijan Zivkovic who gave their children for Croatian freedom to be persecuted, and we forget that their sons and you, generals, fought precisely against that Cyrillic and symbols that she represented, which she represented in 91st year old in Vukovar. So this law was supposed to disable this one provocation of one and in a sensitive space in the city of Vukovar which is the site of a native special piety, but that is not defined by law, that is defined, I will simply say by patriotism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179661	Of course I'll give you a break. I must say, however, one remark. The secretary of defense is not in charge, it is the minister of the administration responsible for that and the laws stemming from the Ministry of Administration, but in any case, we will also take a break, so up to 11 and 59. It's 11:00 P.M. Here it is, our break is up, and now on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Party of Rada and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the honourable representative of Rezimir Varda will share the time with the respected representative Ivica Misic. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.03 HOURS]] Here's a colleague of Varda's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179663	The Honorable Ministers and Associates. My colleagues and colleagues allow me, given that we will both talk about the same subject of a very short summary of the proposal itself. In fact, I have listened carefully to the debate so far, so I have made an effort to reach the Croatian National Assembly Declaration in the Homeland War since October 2000, which is why it was actually part of this proposal and made up. Namely, there is talk of armed aggression between Serbia, Montenegro and JNA. For me, it's a far broader and more serious term than a large-serb aggression. Greater Serbian aggression is a concept. There is no statehood, there is no one to sue, this is the basis for the lawsuits of the state of Serbia, for the state of Serbia and the state of Montenegro. Whether or not we're going to go to it or not, but this is a far broader concept than it is the great Serbian aggression itself. So, Your Honor, I think that by respecting this Declaration, you put it rightly in the bill itself. During the armed aggression against Vukovar, so what the promoter has proposed and proposed is done by Serbia, Montenegro and JNA with the armed rebellion of part of the Serb population in the Republic of Croatia, not only a number of crimes committed against the population but also the intentional destruction of Vukovar and the destruction of the lives of its inhabitants with the violent change of demographic structure as well as the deliberate mass and systematic destruction of historical and cultural heritage. I really thought that, having in mind and knowing something about Vulcan culture, about the history of Vukovar, about the symbol of and culture of the Wolfedol Dove, that this debate in the Parliament would go more peacefully and with the piety on our part towards the victim of Vukovar and the victim of all the defenders in the Homeland War. However, I would not want to, and I do not want to enter the controversy, nor do our Rules of Procedure allow me to replicate the position of individual representatives of clubs. I realized that the aim of this bill is to preserve a lasting memory and memory of the victim of Vukovar in the Homeland War but what is certainly a priority is to promote its social development in all its aspects. I'm missing the honorary ministers here, at least in social terms, that's one broad term, I miss here and economic development, that's all I'm missing. In particular, this article seems to me to be the 26th one where you talk about the funds, the funds provided in the RS budget at the ministry's position, you probably think about your ministry and the budget of the units of local and regional (regional) self-government unless otherwise prescribed by law. However, in paragraph 2 of the same article, you say: ‘Extremely referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the means of implementation of this law shall be provided, where appropriate, in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia at the positions and other bodies of the State administration based on pre-planned activities, or projects from their work.’. Well, that's where you expect the amendment. This ‘if necessary’ should be deleted. This means that ministries and other extra budget users have certain programmes and plans annually that come to the Parliament with projections for the next two years. We would love to see in these plans in the budget and in the plans of extra- budget users how we realize this special pitet towards Vukovar. This "if necessary" doesn't make sense. In that sense, we will give an amendment to delete these three words. And let me finish, and give my fellow Mishic a chance for him to speak a little more of his own. I'd end up the next way. Vukovar has an extremely important symbolic place in our club, in many ways a turning point in Croatia's history and history of today's Croatian state, especially in the formation of a modern Croatian cultural and national identity. That is why Vukovar is a symbol of resistance, sacrifice and unity in the Homeland War, and for these reasons, the Club of the Labour and Solidarity Party and the Independent Representatives, except for this exception to the amendment, will strongly support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179664	A respected representative, Ivica Misic, will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179665	Thank you. Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Ministers with Associates. I am pleased today to discuss Vukovar's symbol of the Croatian defence of Vukovar. I want to say who killed Vukovar, who killed young people, who killed lives in Vukovar and who killed co-existence in Vukovar. We all know how many times this pay phone has been told about Vukovar, what we've done, what's happening today, why there's no co-existence in Vukovar the way it's supposed to be. I ask you and ask colleagues on the left and the people of Serbs, Serbian nationalities living in Vukovar, why is there no co-existence? Of course, after 30 years of occupation of Vukovar, no one has wondered why, what is happening in Croatia, what is happening in politics, what is happening? Of course, Serbs do not wish to confess today or apologize to us for all the crimes we committed in Vukovar. How can you be living with someone who killed your parents, killed your family, destroyed your city where you lived, destroyed so much youth and my personal life, when I was in Vinkovci and my children and my countrymen, sitting here in the Parliament of children who lost their parents, and they today are potentiating and wanting to equalize crimes. Let's see how they treat crimes in Belgrade in Croatia, against crimes in BiH. As Vucic behaves as the first Serbian politician to commit aggression to the Croatian state. Of course, he acts like he says we're all guilty, but not only, and all guilt is trying on some side, on the left hand side to switch to HDZ, to the state of Croatia. If we hadn't done something right, of course, we haven't done it as long as the Chetniks are walking around Vukovar, as long as they're not convicted, as long as they're equating crimes, while they're working in the police, customs, the judiciary and everywhere. Not only do they want to be humble, to be ashamed of these crimes committed by their countrymen and they, they're not ashamed of it, gentlemen, not today. The other day we were at the Eltz Castle, we had a government meeting. We're wondering, who's driving the Krauts out in 45? So many thousands, thousands killed, expelled and kidnapped. The same team that destroyed Vukovar today, drove us out of Vukovar, drove us out of Slavonia, Like and everything else. Of course, if we're talking about it, you ask, then someone's wondering, why is that mentioned? So I'd like to hear from them here, here, the Serbs I want to respect, there are those that I have to say that really, decent people who live and work in Croatia and of course want Serbs to work. But you can't talk from this House here that we're Ustasha, that we don't know what we did to the Serb. No, we've been challenged in the '90s, we've democratically chosen and brought down communism that they don't want to admit today, and unfortunately, some in this House simply, they don't like democracy because maybe.../incomprehensible/... from this pay phone everything normal that we've never sat down in communism. What my father was imprisoned and persecuted by the same people who sit in the Parliament today and say that we are criminals. We must cross, we are a European state and thank God that we are, we must give all rights to all minorities, and these minorities must respect the Croatian Constitution, the Croatian state and the Croatian people. When they do not, let them not expect the Croatian people here to respect them, to worship them, we have bowed down for 100 years to the criminals who persecuted us, expelled us, and killed us, and invented our crimes. I remember a meeting with the Ambassador of Canada who told you that I admire you Croats as much as you Democrats are those who left, so much that you can endure, so much provocation of the Serbs. So others notice that we are a democratic people, a people who want to live with other peoples and peoples came here before this war and before Yugoslavia and... And they didn't have a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how they lived in Bosnia, so we can, we know for ourselves, that they took us away, that today my Bosnian Posavina doesn't have 200 thousand people. And yet they act like they're inhuman, they don't want to act like we have one nice co-existence, that our children, here's the school in Vukovar, why should they? I'm not against Cyrillic, Cyrillic is a Serbian letter, I don't mind. But in Croatia they live, should live, learn Croatian history, Croatian Latin, but let them have their own school in Serbian, however, separate schools. Who's keeping us apart? They separate themselves from us. They don't want to admit what they're guilty of. And we sit here, we observe the situation, and here's the law, yes, if it's a great Serb aggression, it is. But this is the Serbian, Serbian, JNA and Montenegro, precisely well-defined. We can say big-serb, of course, but Vukovar, who knows him, and I know him well before the war, had co-existence, was a beautiful city, an industrial city, a rare city in that former Yugoslavia that must have been one of the most advanced cities. They turned him into a trinity. We know all these pictures,.../incomprehensible/... The trail mentions Hiroshima and the rest, so yes, these are the same crimes, of course, one bomb killed all or two. And here are thousands, thousands of Serbian aggressors in Vukovar and Croatia and shouting this is Greater Serbia. Unfortunately today we have monuments of Chetnik in Croatia, it's embarrassing, it's embarrassing. The state of Croatia would have to pass laws, in fact, there is likely to be a law to bring it down, so that there is no repeat here in Croatia. Unfortunately, in Serbia it is a normal thing and those minors rule with 70% of their own, so Vukic himself took an oath of Chetnik which today, he came to Zagreb here, he was admitted as a man, he brought us some kind of paper that isn't worth anything, made fun of us here, practically in the Croatian state, and I don't think it's going to work anymore, that now this government and this thing is doing, I think it's going in one better direction. I hope that we will be firmer to these crimes and those criminals who have not yet been convicted today should come to justice, they should be debated, they should be persecuted, they should not be given... No crime ever committed in these areas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately for which reasons, why we haven't done it so far, I don't understand it, but it's never too late to report anyone, and there's a lot in the report. Why doesn't our judiciary run it? For some, they started it, but I don't think it's a very, very minimal number of people who have been convicted of those crimes that have been committed, but we can't bring our dead back, here, unfortunately, they won't tell us where they are or what they are and so many thousands and how many of ours are missing, they just act like they didn't do it, that it's random or irrelevant. Importantly, it is very important that who killed whom, unfortunately, many children from Vukovar, from all over Croatia today are left without parents, we can say people whose lives have been destroyed and who have to live under that burden, and I would like that politics to be even harder with those accounts and to come to one orderly society and those who, all minorities, respect it, but they must respect the Constitution and respect Croatian laws and behave the way a polite man behaves in Germany, Australia, America, our people who have come out and respect it and ask all minorities to behave in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179666	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which the respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179667	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, ladies and gentlemen. So right away at the start of the HNS club will support this bill. But we feel that there is certainly nothing that can harm the law but that it can create a legal framework to make a difference. I just have to say that I can't see right now that this law as it says will have a positive impact on the social development of the Vukovar area with an emphasis on demographic, economic, cultural, educational and scientific development, stabilisation and peace conservation. I do not see it from this law, it is mentioned only in Article 25 where it is spoken of which powers for the country's pitet, peace and development so it is stated that it can correct something although when we talk about this council the first its tasks are fine, the second might be any one where it examines the proposals of laws and other regulations and acts, content, etc. which are specific areas, practically all laws relating to all units, to all citizens, to the whole country that we bring here, and so it should be. They're going to be considered something special, it's not clear to me, but I'm saying these activities that I'm going to observe don't exactly see that it's going to result and that this has a positive effect, which doesn't mean that it won't, that it can't. I don't see how the law will work now, but that means it can't. It's just... it's a little expressive. What is good, for example, in the opening part of the evaluation of the situation and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by this law and the consequences, says and can indeed be encouraged to say that it will contribute to the renewal of life in the Vukovar area, i.e. to foster social activities, and in the spirit of community, construction, the maintenance of peace, to lay the foundations of future development, with an emphasis on economic, demographic and scientific research activities, again, there is little scientific research still not exactly clear to me how it will be. But let's just say that this goal is understandable to me, justified in some ways I can understand it. But then in the last sentence, he says, "the problem that this law deals with affects the primary population of the Vukovar area or Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War from the Vukovar area, however, this law will be applied to all the defence victims of the Republic of Croatia who recognize the victim of Vukovar and its role as the city of heroes and establish a modern Republic." This definition, however, is merely an explanation that is not a legal part that recognises what de facto means those who do not recognize it for them will not apply the law which is contrary to the Constitution itself. So it's impossible to pass the law selectively, it can't be banned from accessing a certain social code, now that I don't list all these activities that are going to be done, or someone is going to ask if you recognize or recognize someone, if you recognize the man in, if you don't recognize you won't be able to come in, I mean nonsensus. I don't know why it's put like that, and what's the point of it. He will recognize himself if you can see if he will mark and give you a drink or not. Let me just look at what's been said countless times here and what this topic is used, so this is not the law on the implementation of the Constitution, bilingualism, this is not the law on solving the issues of missing people, this is not the law on the processing of war crimes, this is the law that we really need to guarantee one thing and that in a simple sentence, and that's what I'm going to end up with. And just to relate to that bilingualism, so here I heard from my colleague Zekanovic that the Homeland War was not against the letter he was learning in elementary school but was against aggression, and this letter is used by other countries in the world. So we have not waged war against Russia, nor Bulgaria, nor other countries that use this letter. And the whole point of this law, and I want it to end in one sentence, that whoever lives in the past has no future. And whoever forgets the past risks repeating it and can't have a bright future or a good one. That's why ladies and gentlemen, we can't go back and live through something, but absolutely we can't forget if we want to have a good future and that's what we might do with this law. And I'm going to go back to that final part, to really honor ourselves, to have everything that can be gained from it, to have an area, but not to let us repeat and live through it, but just to remember for future generations and to work on what's really important, which is that all our citizens, all of our citizens have better quality and better living conditions and standards that we have to give them here with the frameworks that we bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179668	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate, the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179669	Thank you very much. Vukovar is the site of a special pitet, Vukovar is the place of Croatian victims, it is the site of a large-scale Serbian crime, the Chetnic crime of an insane politics of Serbia that destroyed a city, tried to destroy the entire state. Vukovar is a place in the 1990s which was defended by the people of Vukovar, and from all over Croatia, so are the people of my Sinj. A few days ago, yesterday we were. There was a Committee on War Veterans, and on that committee was Zeljko Poljak, brother of Ivica Poljak Sokol, his statements to the most severe man. This isn't about Cyrillic as a letter. This isn't about any letter. Here's the word that the great Serb Chetnik army slaughtered, burned, raped, Serbian same criminals walking past their rape victims and Simisto and Vukovar and provoked. That's why I'm sorry, gentlemen, that you didn't have the courage to listen obediently to the leaders of the current government, the Honorable Ministers you also tried to be at a protest last year in Vukovar where there was no policy called by the mayor of Penava and his associates. The scream of victims talking about their criminals walking freely. Multiple raped women talk, imagine women talk so the air mates, every inch of it with blood is soaked. And we can't talk Cyrillic here as a letter, that's the letter we use, but Vukovar is something else. Therefore, the humiliation of Marijan Zivkovic because of the broken record, it was a humiliation of the person, the mocking of the person eating in tanks was written by the meat we will slaughter Croats from their neighbours Serbs living now in Vukovar. But whenever we talk about national minorities that some would not be offended, national minorities in Croatia have given great pain in the Homeland War. Only 9,000 Serbs were in Croatian troops from the HOS, Croatian police and Croatian armies and gave significant pain to the defence in all three units. However, does the Shoskocan Chetnik deserve such a monument or what is it? Does he deserve such a monument in Vukovar? If you're interested in asking a question from the bench, please explain to Mr. Nenad Stazić, who was warm as a journalist who would like to praise the one he calls because the biggest benefit from the Croatian state is those characters who have been shot this whole time and mocked the victim of Vukovar, the victim of Vukovar. Oh, I can't be ordered by Plenkovic or Colinda or Vukic not to mention the great Serb aggression in this law, as he will command me. When Penava Mayor called this gathering a large gathering that was a victim, a scream, a crowd of victims, a crowd of victims in Vukovar, I was with my colleague Ines Strena Linic, and it is amazing that my colleague Djakic invited people not to go on the invitation of Penava. And I'm surprised now that Mr. Penave's silence is Article 3 of this bill does not solve the problem. And you know what the problem is? The problem is that we have every little post-up even a jumbo poster where Zadar died, the hero of the Homeland War the first general as it is for a Serb to be in Croatia. What is it like for a Serb to be in Croatia in a Cyrillic letter, is that a provocation, gentlemen, and you are with him colleagues and colleagues? It would have been better if he'd written down where dr. Ivan Šreter, in a Cyrillic letter by Milorad Pupovac, your partner is an eternal partner who has been delayed by the thematic sessions of the Veterans Committee at the invitation of the Associations of the Homeland War, the Special Police, the Guard Units and of course received by the President of the Parliament. What is the delay in the debate? You need it with the election. The victim we're talking about will then be ordered by no one to order me either Vukic or Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic who received him, spread the red wallpaper in front of him, lined up the Croatian honorary unit, and he mocked. Instead of a missing persons list, he brought in grantines from that area. Yeah. Chetnik Alexander Vukic, who wants to be shown to the penitent. No, he's not a penitent until he delivers every name to the last letter, name and name of the missing person. Until he solves the problem of our campers and our missing, until he pays war damage there is no one in front of him to have a good will to line up, be it Grabar Kitarović President, anyone. And in pre-election time, believe me, these laws don't do any good. And on the last day together in Vukovar, they'll be waving at these worse victims. But there is no problem solved because it can be solved by the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, Article 8, which is prescribed here. Do we have colleagues and colleagues of the will of a fellow Stazic who is not here to you so that we can all come down together, and once and for all, let peace be with those people that there is no cry and cry of those people when we pass through Vukovar when I come to Vukovar, often I am in Vukovar we must stop the attacks and resist the feelings of these people. It's our obligation as a colleague and as a colleague, it's our duty. It is not our duty just to bow down if ordered by an officer from Europe either Alexander Vukic, or anyone else. I think we need to have a consensus on this case. This isn't about Cyrillic as a letter, it's not about hatred of national minorities, it's about victims, people, even people of Serbian nationality who have no peace, who have defended Vukovar. And all the victims of Vukovar are due to great Serbian aggression. And in this law, here are colleagues earlier, shortly before I was told by Varda and Misic that there is a great Serb aggression, no, no, it is in the explanation where the state of Serbia-Montenegro is mentioned but the large-serb aggression does not. The cause of the victims and on the Serbian side, then the Serb army and Croatia, a large Serb Chetnic aggression because the Martians did not attack Vukovar. And we have to stop this harangus, primarily pre-election pumping by you or your coalition partner of the SDSS, we need to find a consensus that this place is a place of special pitet and all markings, there is already, everything in this law, nothing new, but the key question is not solved why Marijan Zivkovic ended up and persecuted, and which is why in court he was humiliated because the judge told him that in loneliness he grieved for his sons. And the words of Zeljko the Poljak, my Sanjani on the board of an outside member, cometh a man to be enraged. His brother left Sinj to defend Vukovar with Andrija Alcic from other parts, he became the commander of the fair, died at a police station in Vukovar. And when a man tells you openly this law doesn't solve anything, if you put a Cyrillic plate and he's a reasonable man, believe me, he's a Croatian defender, if you put on a police station in Vukovar, a Cyrillic plate, I promise those mountains of the Vukovars and the living with whom he is, I quote him with whom he is heard every day because every day lives Vukovar, I will break it. Do these feelings need to grow more, will it solve peace? And the council, the council of 17 people, 3 just from Vukovar from the association. Well, I've been called by a number of associations here and Zeljko has called that they don't exactly agree with this way of solving the problem at pre-election times where the things that cause the problem don't define. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179670	Thank you very much. We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague named Djakic has raised, it seems to me a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What he's hurt in... The point is hurt. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179671	236nd colleague Bulj has injured the Rules of Procedure by telling the truth on the subject... The burden of my name, that I called on the defenders not to go to the protest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's absolutely incorrect. Comrade Bulj, the thing is, in our appointment with the mayor, the mayor staged a protest, and I just said I wouldn't participate in it. So don't tell lies, but you're saying... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179672	Col. Djakić, therefore no injured Rules of Procedure, first of all, item 236 speaks in general about the whole story, so not at all, you missed the article. Secondly, what I've said more than once here, I can't judge and I don't want to judge whether anyone here is lying or not. Because it's neither my role nor I can do it, I'm afraid very often not telling the truth here, but it's my own belief that I can't tell anyone that he hurt the Rules of Procedure. I ask you all nicely do not abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure if you want to replicate, replicate to the people. We have an institution that allows you to say everything you think. But from now on, I will no longer tolerate the abuse of institutions injure the Rules of Procedure, please. ... Comrade Maras, I'm still running the session. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, not because of that and you know very well why I... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My friend Bulj, you insist on hurting the Rules of Procedure? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I asked nicely don't argue with the injuries of the Rules of Procedure and replicate. ... All right, I said mine and you do your thing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179673	A colleague, Djakic, injured Article 238 because he could simply replicate, made a mistake, and the article meant that he called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure and, of course, by saying the truth because he publicly stated that it was organised by MOST and some other meeting and not true, I can find that statement when he said that in front of the assembly, that MOST organised it. In fact, it was the invitation of the mayor of Penave, who is on your side a propo, in your party. So, absolutely you said you wouldn't go to that protest to organize some small, marginal, marginal,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179674	That's what I said and asked you not to do what you just did, and that's why I'm giving you a warning. And from now on, I'm going to give a warning to anyone who's going to violate the breach, the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179675	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I understand your emotional, justified emotional charge but I don't understand why you insisting on large-serb aggression abolize Serbia, Montenegro and JNA from aggression. Because ideologies change, we know Montenegro has given up its ideology, Serbia has not yet, with a formulation, a legal formulation that is... , which stands here in the light of this law and the reasoning of the law is not something that is irrelevant but it is a guide to how laws apply and interpretations and you, with your insistence on abolising both Serbia-Montenegro and JNA from aggression and crimes that have been committed and it simply makes no sense what you are doing because you are not aware of what you are saying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179676	Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179677	Mr. Tudjman, neither Serbia is a state nor Montenegro nor one is mentioned in... an explanation in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you know it... But you know it very well, in an explanation that, you're talking about reasoning, you're talking about reasoning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The great Serbian aggression is to blame for this, and I know you think like I do, Mr. Tudjman, but you can't say. You know, Vukic said he spoke with President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. I expected you to show yourself that for which she received Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović from Chetnik Vukic without solving the war damage, without solving the missing from Vukovar, the camper, received the Chetnik Vukic, your candidate for president of the Republic and current president. You weren't loud at the time. I would love to, but you should have been in Vukovar for the invitation and scream of Vukovar, so we would have seen if there was a big Serb aggression, so of course there was a part of Montenegro, JNA and Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179678	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Raguž. Here you go. Comrade Raguž, please, I have called you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179679	As part of your debate, you insist on issues that come out of the context of this topic, that is, this law which is addressed by the laws on the area of justice, the economy and other issues. The emphasis of this law on whom it is safe because it is about Vukovar needs courage and wisdom is an emphasis on the identity, contemporary attitude of the Croatian people, the Croatian nation towards the period of the Homeland War, according to the respect of the victim of Vukovar, but also on the key idea on which modern Croatia was created, the ideas of reconciliation and the relationship to the deaths of others in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, as part of your debate, there are no elements relating to other areas of social economic life in the Republic of Croatia, and I appreciate that this law has just solved those key issues, identical and that is why it is worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179680	Thank you. Dear Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179681	Comrade Raguž, you are aware that this law does not solve the key problem and you see this in Article 3. Mr. Zivkovic was persecuted by Croatian institutions, Marijan Zivkovic, a man who lost two sons and who was told at trial by the judge that he was grieving in loneliness. You know what caused this problem, I'm sorry you weren't at the invitation of the mayor of your party Ivan Penava last year at the 20th month up in Vukovar to hear the scream of these raped women, come, listen, don't justify yourself. If we are together, then you rise up and say we will propose a change of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, Article 8. for the area of Vukovar. Here I call you, you're the majority. I'm also calling on Milorad Popovec, who's with you, and you can handle it together, but you can't, you can't, you can't, and you're putting up with... Vukovar... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179682	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, the debate so far has been marked as I have said in the opening of pre-election topics and pre-election matters. Let's say fellow Bulj persistently insists on two things by thinking that in this way he will make some minus presidents of the Republic and promote his candidate, HDZ proposes the law also in pre-election time to maybe increase his candidate's chances and that's basically what is not good and where I insisted in the opening line, which is that we don't use Vukovar and the themes around Vukovar because of the pre-election needs rather than really make one consensus that exists, so that's not at all controversial. There will be no one against this law nor against the fact that a hospital in Vukovar will give it more meaning than it does now, or who deserves it. And there's no need for here's colleague Bulj insists on the expressions of large-serb aggression because he allegedly promised Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic not to mention it, and it's his now probably one of the main motivations to mention it six times in his debate or Cyrillic question to potentiate as if he were a fighter against the letter. So that is, it is now something that seems to be the biggest problem for some in Croatia whether the letter is like this or not. So we need to be aware that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia especially minorities have their rights and do not need to go back to that and create the biggest problem of it. So Vukovar is a question not only of the past but of the future, and we should thus pay our respects to a city that takes a special place in all our hearts, minds, and all that it is. So I absolutely disagree with my colleague Bull and his argument. I don't think it's a good way to insist on the topics shared by our society. So it is not at all questionable what we think and what aggression was on Croatia and who the guilty were, and unfortunately, the current president of Serbia has done a lot of harmful things in Croatia, promoting certain things that have spurred aggression on the Republic of Croatia, and that is the case. So we're all aware of this, but we don't need to create a political theme in order to project it in our elections and to ultimately solve absolutely nothing, here. So it would be good for us as politicians in the Republic of Croatia to see how we're going to open the future for Vukovar and Vukovar and how we can somehow protect that part of our history, the emotions we feel about Vukovar. So no matter what happens, you're wrong, and that's not how you set things up. Maybe there's a little bit of regret that you've brought HDZ to power twice, then Milorad Pupovac didn't bother you, another time in the coalition, now you're in a lot of trouble. So, on that side, on that side, you never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, that he wasn't, so was he part of most Andrej Plenkovic, and in the budget he voted the same Milorad Pupovac [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] I don't think that's something I can understand and I can understand the intensity of my colleagues and colleagues from MOST to help HDZ third time if Andrej Plenkovic moves away. [[- Okay, please, please, let's not throw it out of the bench.]] So, this is obviously the main topic now within these presidential elections, who will be in the HDZ president so that MOST can go with HDZ again because fellow Bulj while at the Miroslav Škore rally he probably clapped when he called on Miroslav Škoro HDZ voters to vote for him no, because he is a true HDZ, not Andrej Plenkovic and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. So, I had to say this because I just don't like making choices and pre-election campaigns in topics that should be supercampan, super-biased, which should be the most important thing for all of us because of some other motives, not those motives for who gets the vote or who gets the vote more or less, whether Mrs Kitarovic said this or that, whether she led the children in 2005 or 2000 or '99, means these are not the things that should be dominated when we talk about this law. I'll give my personal support and what I asked the minister to do, please continue, don't ever do a pre-election story from Vukovar. Mr. Minister said in his opening statement that the holiday issue also stems from this law. And it is also part of the pre-election story because it has now changed both the holiday law and completely changed the concept again, not only for 18.11., but also for some dates before. So we have to have a state and we have to have agreements that will be worth a great majority or not, that will apply to everyone, but that will have a consensus of the great majority of our society, and not that, in part, from the elections to the elections, the holidays are changing and the laws that suit someone. As a rule, not as a rule, but it is always an initiator of HDZ. So the SDP has never in this way moved certain laws related to national issues, historical topics, topics that have emotionally linked our citizens. On the other hand, here's what I'm saying. I can back this up one more time. I would love it if in Vukovar, along with this part of the hospital and the marking of these places where Croatian citizens are defenders, the people of Vukovar and all those who have been there had huge casualties, of course those places were declared and given some more importance than they are now, but I would like to have one part of the future in Vukovar. I don't know if that's what anyone mentioned, how they started with these schools where children come to learn about Vukovar and everything that was in Vukovar and how Croatia defended themselves, generations that weren't then born, it might be a good idea to do something that would, as a college that would deal with certain topics, campuses or something where future generations could possibly be educated, I think there's space for that. It would be something that I think Vukovar would especially in this situation when a lot of people leave there and when people go through the belly after bread all over the world, it might not be bad if we had the opportunity to create a university, a university or something where young people would learn about the future and it would be one stock that would show that Vukovar is a place or a city that connects young people from all over the world. So I'm not just talking about the region or neighbouring countries, I'm talking about people coming from all over the world, and that's where they go to school. I think that Vukovar as a city had a strong industry and a agricultural and a certain I would say, other certain branches, so it would become a place to do something about it. But the main thing that I said at the beginning, I'm going to say right now, I'm asking everyone to turn off their party electoral motives, wash their consciences, and everything that goes along with it, and to simply release Vukovar as far as the election is concerned in peace, but that if there is already a possibility, and there's a possibility of making one consensus about not spoiling it in a way that quite often starts to spoil. Because the presidential elections or parliamentary elections are every 4 or 5 years, people come and go, candidates run, win or lose, and Vukovar will surely remain a special place for all our citizens, for us, for our children and generations to come. And I think he deserves us to deprive him of it, to deprive him of these sentences and what the word in the law says, I don't think it's going to help us have a different sense of Vukovar and that Vukovar gets another place that he deserves more than what he has now because I'm sure, because I'm sure we'll all agree on that. So there's not a single person who wasn't here in Vukovar, there's not one person who hasn't bowed to the victims in Vukovar, who doesn't do it every year. So we're all thinking the same thing about Vukovar, about great Serbian aggression, about the Homeland War, no matter how someone tries to demean it because of some party's story. Believe me, we're all on the same side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179684	Thank you. Your exposure caused quite a number of replicas. Let's go in turn, he's the first respected representative of Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179685	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras well, you said well, and I'm actually surprised that the right side of the assembly refuses to admit that this is pre-election law. Three years say the initiative was to pass a similar law, why is it being passed right now? That's a very good question. Just like a series of questions from others you asked, how much better Vukovar will actually be and how much better Croatia will be in general than this law. But that's what you know about HDZ policy. Their mouths are full of unity and everything makes them divide Croatian citizens. Their mouths are full of justice and equality, and you've seen tax laws, superhic tax reform, gives richer to those who have, to those who don't give less. Their mouths are full of democracy and they systematically ignore institutions that are in charge of safeguarding the same democratic order, which is HDZ policy, so this law does not surprise me at all at this time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179686	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179687	Thank you very much, Mr. Hajdukovic. I was always surprised, and I was wondering why the HDZ people needed so much to raise their feelings for Vukovar, contributions, etc., here you can see that now the president of the Republic of Croatia calls Skor because the man went to America and she worked as a clerk I don't know where in the ministry or somewhere for 90 marks but she needs to say that she contributed anything more than someone else. I'm leaving the position that we all have the same feelings for Vukovar, everyone here, I wouldn't want to offend anyone in that way if you were thinking about Vukovar this or that and this thought in a different way. So for me there's no difference at all, nor would I want to make a difference between us. Because of that, I really don't understand it, and I'm sorry that HDZ commercializes it to help itself with a point or two in the election of this or that, and I don't think that's right, and that should stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179688	The next replica is the respected representative Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179689	I thank the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament. My dear colleague, you have rightly noticed that Vukovar can and is often politically instrumentalized. When Vukovar is politically instrumentalized, then it is political, historical and emotional sadism. There's no positive emotion here. Drinking is a memory of sacrifice and memory of evil done but, on the other hand, through sadism speaks evil memory or evil memory and malice or malice is the one in which Vukovar takes life. When Vukovar is given political life because of political sadism, some candidates will profit from the reconstruction of their own history and the creation of the vision of their own history is about malice. When it comes to the memory of evil done, then life and the life of Cyrillic are born in Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179690	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179691	So I can agree with you in that part because when you see which topics dominate, when you see that it is usually a negative emotion, when you see it, here someone today said that the mayor of Penava, how he did in one situation by throwing away the Statute of the city of Vukovar. So these are all more or less unfortunately negative emotions. So we have to give this city and those people who live there some optimism, nada, as I would say the future. So if we insist and unfortunately in our policy, a negative story is created mostly whether Djakic ordered to go to the protest or not to go to the protest. So whether she instrumented herself to the defenders in one way or another, so that's all negative stories. So that's something that burdens our country, our society and our citizens. And I appeal to another HDZ to let people go, just to keep them calm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179692	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179693	Thank you very much. Well, from the most successful minister in this case, it seems to me to be the craftsman who made the biggest reason since the '90s, I didn't expect anything else. I didn't expect anything else because when I saw him mention only the presidential campaign and that his problem was the presidential campaign, I didn't talk about it. I was saying that it would never happen again, as it was during your time to send police cordons to Marijan Zivkovic's man who gave two sons, that no more case of Darka Pajcic would happen. I'm calling you all here and you're turning to a pre-election campaign. Why, you're still laughing, you're still laughing. Yes, it is difficult for you that someone else ran outside of the incubator Budimir Lončar, so it was Zoran Milanović or Grabar-Kitarovic, outside of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from the same incubator and you do not impose on me that I was talking about the presidential campaign, I was talking about the problem of Vukovar and Vukovar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179694	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179695	So how come you didn't talk about the election campaign? So you're alluding when you're talking about great Serbian aggression, then you're alluding to Mrs. Grabar-Kitarovic promised Mr. Vukic he wouldn't mention it. How is this not a pre-election campaign? Well, you're not that naive. You can play a little naive like this, but you're not that naive. The only thing I feel about you is really that frustration that you've brought HDZ to power twice. And that you can't forgive yourself and now you're trying to... And now, and now you're trying, now you're trying to wash your conscience, think and fantasize about replacing Andre Plenkovic to get someone new in HDZ to come back to power. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here's your plan. So tell everyone the truth. Let them know. So what, it's not a shame, Mr. Bull, to bring HDZ three times to power, so it's not. It's not for you, it would be a big shame for me, but for you, it's obviously not a shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179696	Thank you. My friend Bulj, you're the one who's done the damage to the Rules of Procedure? Are you sure about that? Okay. In what way was the Rules of Procedure injured, which article
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179697	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, Article 238, for putting me up with a colleague, Maras, words I didn't even mention. As for the great Serbian aggression, I reacted when she came here, when Milanovic was coming, and the campaign problem was absolutely not of interest to me, I'm talking about Vukovar, and I'm not like you, I'm not like you, the most successful minister and I'm really sorry that you didn't continue because if you continued it would be at least 10 times worse than now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179698	Comrade Bulj, you seem to have deliberately not wanted to hear what I said, which is that I will punish the abuse of those, the abuse of those provisions of the Rules of Procedure which actually do not apply to it at all. And on the basis of Article 240(1), I now give you a reminder by taking away the words. We're going to the next line, and that's the esteemed representative of the Iceman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179699	Dear colleague Maras, you have offended the intelligence of a large number, part of our citizens, with this debate because you have said that this debate, which I do not consider too intellectually, will result in some political point or some election result. So do you really think that Croatian citizens can fall for these? They've already determined that when, political attitudes are known. So you're for Cyrillic plates in Vukovar, we're not. In addition, you said in your debate that Cyrillic tablets are shared by the Croatian people, so all polls show that the vast majority of Croatian citizens feel that it is not yet time for Cyrillic plates to be introduced. It is not the sharing of the Croatian people at all, if the vast majority, and especially the Vukovars, especially the Vukovars, most concerned. So there's no sharing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179700	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179701	Thank you very much. Mr. Sladolev, I did not refer here at all to Croatian citizens, but to the attempt of individuals, specifically here by the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and specifically by colleagues from the Most Bulje to have a political benefit on this topic, or to promote one or another candidate in the presidential elections. I hope you're right and people recognize it and they won't approve it. If you're right about it better, but that doesn't mean that their attempt isn't good or that their attempt is good and that's how it should be done. I don't think it should work, and that's why I reacted. So I continue to appeal to both you and your HDZ colleagues, don't work and don't try to pick up a political point or two on Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179702	The next is a replica of a respected representative, not a representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179703	Thank you very much. Well, dear colleague Maras, you've had a constructive discussion and you've well noticed that my colleague Bulj, who, unfortunately, is not here right now, is manipulating two things, and one is the concept of large-serb aggression. My colleague Bulj, unfortunately because of the lack of knowledge of historical facts, does not know that the concept of large-serb aggression is a narrow concept of what is written in the reasoning of the law. This would mean that only Serbia has committed aggression on Croatia, and it says here that the aggression on Croatia has been carried out by Serbia, JNA, Montenegro and the rebel Serbs in Croatia. So this is what it is, and what my colleague Bulj is saying is manipulation. So he knows the historical facts. Too bad he's not here right now, 'cause if he was here, he could learn that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179704	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179705	Thank you very much. I'm not glad that my colleague Bulj got a warning by taking this word away, although to say strictly keeping the rules isn't part of the nonstop. Some apply it to me even last time and overextensive, but that depends of course on the president, but you're right. So on the other hand, on the other hand, my colleague Bulj is trying to do, I said on the subject that Colinda Grabar Kitarovic promised Mr. Vukic that no reference would be made to that termology. And that's the only reason there's so much to mention and insist on writing, so tomorrow you say here's what you see HDZ running from it. And that's what they said, means pushing the pre-election theme, the theme in the Vukovar Act, which I don't think is good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179706	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179707	A fellow Maras in the first part of your debate can be glad that you highlighted the most important elements of this law and said that you would support this law for the reason that it coordinates the work of scientific, educational and educational institutions on issues of the Homeland War when Vukovar is a topic and it is a good way to approach this law, but in the second part of your debate, you were offered the debate by colleagues of Bulja to the policy of this law by connecting it with pre-election time. There will always be choices, but there should be work and I appreciate that this law is on the trail of that message to do and move things forward and it has been successfully done with this law when it comes to Vukovar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179708	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179709	Unfortunately, the topics are like this, and I don't force it, and that's what candidates or candidates are for. Which is why the president should even point out when she led her children, unborn at the time to visit Vukovar or how many marks she worked for in the ministry at the time while calling another candidate that he was not in Croatia at all. So it's all about unfortunately at this point in time with the presidential elections, and that's why it would be good if this law had been proposed half a year earlier or a year earlier. I think there was plenty of time to do that. So in this situation where we are now, these topics are inevitably tied to the elections, and that's not good, and on that side here again, I can only appeal to the promoters not to do it anymore. We'll have parliamentary elections next year, I hope we don't have another law reading at 6 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179710	The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179711	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maras, you spoke nicely of this law, and I'm actually impressed that you invited it to a partnership with the victim and the passing of this law, and I'm just worried, I don't know which club you're at because your club representative was talking about nonsense and meaninglessness and... without... this law. I don't think you're either in the same party or the same club. In front of the club spoke Stazic and said this law sucks. Whether you think so or not, I've concluded from your presentation that you support this law and therefore I don't think you're in the same club and that you're not thinking the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179712	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179713	Thank you very much. I'm sure he didn't use the expression "senseless," as I'm sure he means certain things when he's talking about what could have been defined in one way or another, or that they're already defined. And probably like me, he thinks HDZ used it for the campaign, which is not right. And if you want the HDZ to use this campaign law, it's totally lame and harmful. Here's what I think, and I believe my colleague Stazic is thinking because on these topics trying to score a point or two is lame and wrong and wrong and don't do it. You are like one of the people who instrumentalises his position for HDZ that is most aware through HVIDRA because Croatian defenders are not also the right and property of one party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179714	Before we go back to the point we broke up, no matter what you got, I mean written notice about tomorrow's work schedule, I'd like to inform you that tomorrow, so on December 13th, which is the last day of work, the meeting of the Croatian Parliament this year, after the debate of the planned point, will begin with the presentation of the club's position at 11:15 p.m. and then at 12 p.m. we will vote on the debated points after which will be a convenient Christmas reception. So, you got the notice, but I think I needed to remind you one more time, although unfortunately there aren't many MPs in the hall. We will now return to the debate on the point that we have cut off for a moment and will individually discuss it with the respected representative Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179715	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The peoples are big, and it's easy to fool them with toys, false promises, lies at least until the moment we come up with new toys, new lies. He says we were all in Vukovar one of the speakers who just left this hall. And we know why there's no one on the other side when I'm talking, as usual. We know well when he says we were all in Vukovar and unlike them all I was the only one there from all of you here when it was necessary and when the Croatian people were in the accident and in the sad and the bad, then they weren't there but they can talk about it with public speakers, praise themselves and themselves alike because this is an ordinary stage, a stage you're looking at, if you don't like to switch to another channel. You can always find like-minded people who will listen to you, who will talk about something that they have no idea about, but when it comes to Vukovar, I think I'm invited here to talk about it. I was also invited, Marijana Balic and Sinisa Glavasevic were invited because they can share what they know and feel with those who only read about it or listened to the boasting of some of their former colleagues from the assembly benches. In those dark 2013 when under the auspices of the night, the government of Zoran Milanovic, with the heartfelt support of Arsen Bauk and Ranko Ostojic, when they are under the auspices of the night as... Place Cyrillic panels around Vukovar in advance knowing which reaction they will receive to set these panels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because if it were legal, legitimate, and constitutional, it wouldn't be placed under cover of night. There's one, I can call it a Serbian conspiracy because they're famous for fraud, conspiracy, they've invented lies in their red kitchen for the Vukovars. Imagine when they're talking about the piety to Vukovar, the hero city what it looks like from their corner. They were never with a true Vukovar who would pass on their experiences from a surrounded city, from a basement, from a hospital, from a prison camp except for those who had some benefits in those camps and even fell in love, they managed to marry after a long time. Imagine, I only know one case known in Croatia, we all know it, it's gone, it's gone and it's good that it's gone, even if it's better, let it be happy. But when I talked about the Vukovar project about the site of the special pietata I can't remember here in 2013 and these Cyrillic plates that caused the unrest in the Croatian part of Vukovar because it was a new, repeated aggression on their bad memory of the past not so long ago. So then the records were set up, guarded by some police officers and former police officers who tortured and interrogated those same Vukovars in Borov Selo, Bobota, Trpinja, Negoslavci, Vera, where they were tortured and interrogated, killed by their loved ones, where they were again guarding them, placed and guarded by these Cyrillic plates. Well, logically, the Croatian spirit woke up in Vukovar and in 2013 and managed to gather as in '91. years in the form of a headquarters for the defence of Croatian Vukovar. This headquarters in 2013 at the head where we were all the same among the equals, where we didn't know who the leader was, where we all had one idea, and that was to resist that subsequent decision on the illegal, anti-constitutional decision to place Cyrillic plates as a reminder to the Croatian Vukovar, we are here again, count on us, can't do anything without us and will not pass here in Vukovar. You know, there's nothing you can do for us, you know we've been killing and raping you, but you can't hurt us if the judicial brake is well stiff. Except for that beautiful courthouse building in Vukovar and those memorials of the dead officers in front of her, where many of them are known to me, and you have unknown names. Is that justice for Vukovar? Is that the treatment and the drinking of Vukovar? No, it's not. When in town a small attempt to call a secondary school by the name of hero Marko Babic, whose father and mother were taken away by the beastly torture and murder in Trpinja and their bodies has not yet been found, it is against the decision to call the school SDP and SDSS together in action again, as they say in the attack on the remains of Croatian beings in that city. You regret the speeches they leave, there are no Vukovars, it has gone the most frequent, most honest Croatia's most loyal that it should remain here as a Nucleus in Vukovar. And that way, if Vukovar doesn't get the pie he deserves, respect for everything he's done for the defense of Croatia, we'll be left empty border, we'll be left empty meadows, fields where the Croats won't be, but there'll be some other Predrin, some new age conquerors. How will we maintain Vukovar's pitet towards Croatian defenders and those who left when we have in Zagreb markings of Army Day of the Republic of Serbia in Mimara. That same army after a five-pointed star that Vukovar took down and killed in Vukovar? How will we maintain this pitet in Vukovar when those who are also against the founders of this new Croatia are tabled in the very heart of Croatia in Zagreb? When in the news, by the profiles, you see a picture of our president in a stamp, and it says a stamp out of use after a short time because the people didn't know which side to spit on and publish it by Dennis Latin, who works on state television. Is this the drink of the Croatian people towards those who have entrusted you, all of you and all of Croatia with their sacrifice? Is that the form and style of pie towards them? We are well-known that in addition to the freedom and democracy that we have given you with our sacrifice, and I am speaking in this way, we may not have been able to provide you with some other treasures, some other values that are now more important than those original ones, and that was a naked survival. But it's not the Vukovars, nor the Croatian defenders, nor the first president, it's some other structures, it's those structures that were hiding, which shouldn't have raised their heads until there was a peaceful reintegration. Fear was in their traitorous hearts to peaceful reintegration when they were surrounded and crawled out of their holes, through an uncommunist party turning into social Democrats. Imagine what conversion of frogs from skinny to fat turned to spit again, muddy the remains of Croatianism in Croatia. Well, this is the Croatian state, no matter what happens to us from the east, we have to stay our own, we have to stay together. We will not allow those over the Drina to say always, they have stood up, they have turned us into Ustashas, because we have killed the Serbs, and they have turned us into Partisan cutthroats of the Croats, and they have turned us into all Serbs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179716	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas on your exhibit. First is the respected representative of Ivica Music. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179717	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Culey's in your performance, you said that he was an ordinary stage, that he was a Parliament. No, this is an honorable place, this is an honorable place for the Croatian people, and all of us sitting in the Parliament must be honored. Of course, you're right, this stage of the Parliament wants to turn into an ordinary stage. Unfortunately, for a long time in this stage in this House, we've wanted to make some kind of theater, comedy, and what I know is more and more, the insecureness of the state. As far as the Cyrillic in Vukovar is concerned, it's a very irrelevant matter, Cyrillic is a irrelevant matter, but it's a protection against persecuting criminals, not to mention the crimes you've already been talking about. Better to talk about Cyrillic than crimes, Chetnik monuments, unaccounted for by our defenders and civilians, and that's actually the point, not Cyrillic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179718	Thank you. The answer of Honorable Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179719	You understand me well when I'm talking because we've talked a lot of times, and I'm in the process of Cyrillic plates, but it was in one effect in a verbal delicacy that's haunting me, and it doesn't exist. I'm only in the process because I was talking the same way I'm talking here in the Croatian Parliament, I didn't say anything else there, I even told the Gandhiian approach, we're going where the plates are placed, so who gets their heads kicked in. Yeah, there was detention, there was a push, and the busting of the head didn't dare because it hasn't matured the time to do it yet. If we give in, we'll get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179720	The next replica of the esteemed representative, Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179721	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Ministers with Associates. Representative Culey, clearly from your presentation and general opinion that this is not the time to set up bilingual panels. When do you think that time will come, which conditions should be satisfied to see it happen, are they economic or something or should it change the law like it was to be 50+1% minority in some area, the city rather than as it was changed in 2001 to 33%? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179722	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179723	Dear colleague Kirin, we are witnessing that there are schools in Vukovar where Serbian children go. If we have already shed blood on each other in this war and fought against each other, why are we passing on to our children some customs and some seeds of evil for some other time? Which is why these kids don't get to know each other in some other way but they're going to get to know each other in the streets, in the games and in other places where they're going to weigh their strengths not in knowledge or in what they know from the Homeland War because they don't know anything about it because everyone learns in their own way who's the winner, who's the hero. If my children are taught that their uncle is a dead hero, and they are on the other hand that the Shoshkashan Wolf is their hero, what are we talking about? That after this experiment, who knows what's coming for us in the future?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179724	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179725	Thank you. My colleague Culej, I believe that no government has so far been so focused on the dignity of the Homeland War and of course Croatian defenders. It is in this assembly that the entire Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War was passed then the Law on Persons Missing in the Homeland War, as you know, the Republic of Croatia is still looking for 1892 people. Then 18. The 11th was declared the Day of Remembrance of the victims of the Homeland War and the Day of Remembrance of the Sacrifice of Vukovar and Skabrnje. And today we are discussing the Law on the Declaration of Vukovar by the place of a special homeland petite. Therefore, that there is a certain part before the irregularities, there is, but that we are all invited to work to combat it and to protect the rights of defenders and also the dignity of the Homeland War, I believe that we are invited, and this government and this assembly are doing this in a committed manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179726	Thank you. Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179727	Thanks to one former HDZ president, T. Karamark, many of us have met here at the Croatian Parliament, asking if we would ever get a chance to come. I think that the time has matured for Croatian defenders, at least what has survived, which has not given up to the various burdens of this society, time and space, I think it has matured the time to give our last move for Croatia that we are obliged to give for all those who have given their lives, that we do not pass these last days in mourning for what might have been. That's why we're going to pick up where they left off. We will not bow down, we will fall down, those who have always been worse than us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179728	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179729	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Culey, speaking of your presentation, you have well mentioned what a Cyrillic letter means in Vukovar, in... as in the entire Croatian homeland. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] All the messages that were written, all the death threats, all the pretenties and all the goals of the Serbian Yugoslav aggression on the Republic of Serbia were written on that Cyrillic. Death to Croats, death to Ustashas, this is Serbia, it all says on Cyrillic. How can the Croatian people accept this bloody letter that has taken so many thousands of lives and left so many thousands of wounded and sick behind? It is a difficult issue to consider both through the Constitution and through constitutional laws and through everything else but there are no solutions for such mistakes and painful wounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179730	Dear Representative Culey.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179731	There are many features besides the Cyrillic letter which Vukovar and Croatian citizens at least reminds the victims of what bothers them in their peace, order, relaxation in one life, which are the star of the five-pointed people who destroyed Vukovar, these are Chetnik Kocards and various other features. The Chetnic Kocard for which M. Pupovac of the SDSS is our coalition partner, who says there is no legal basis for the gambling to be banned. He does, he does, he does. At least for those I know and who know how to react to that same gambling. The five-point star may soon be abolized in Croatian society, but the time will come for one and the other to end up where they belong, in the waste, where those who began the idea are also.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179732	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179733	Thank you very much. It's fortunate that Mr. Culey that you don't represent some value in our society because what you're saying to the five-point star has nothing to do with anything, it's a symbol and victory of anti-fascism over the greatest evil that happened last century, and on the other hand, the question arises when we see that some MPs here claim that the letter was killing. So my kid in elementary school is learning German. Is it because Germany was the engine of the greatest war and the greatest crime in mankind's history of the last century that our children should not learn German? Do you see how tight it is that you say how much you keep us trapped in some of your fears and irrational things? And it's a good thing you got out here and said that basically your candidate for HDZ President Karamarko that we know whose policy You represent, we'd still be interested. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Let's hear who you support for the president of the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder Reiner: Next...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179734	The answer is to the esteemed representative of Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179735	You say that I am not and do not represent some value in Croatian society. And I would ask you what moral, intellectual, cultural, or other value do you represent? That I have received from my people two times almost 11,000 votes, so I represent something in this people. Twice! I wasn't chosen by the party chief because I'm beautiful, blue and tall like you. It's because I represent something in the Croatian Podunavlje in Vukovar. And in the Vinkovs in their surroundings. Well, that's where you know who I am. Who are you in this town? Well, I'm familiar with the last village of the Strossins, Ilach, Vervains, there's no place where people don't know me. Who's calling you? Your neighbor does not know you in the elevator you meet, nor do you greet each other. That's the difference. I don't need a party chief to put me on, he recognized me, recognized a man of the people, whom the people loved. My people love me. I don't have to walk armed. in his village or other villages. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179736	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179737	Thank you very much, Mr. President HS. Well, here's the debate on the law on special homeland piety in the town of Vukovar and the surrounding area is certainly welcome with significantly reduced tensions and with a certain community that should be when we talk about the horrors and victims of the victims and destructions of the town of Vukovar and the surrounding area as well as a lot of places in the Republic of Croatia. Vukovar plays a special important role in Croatian history, establishing independent, independent, sovereign and democratic states. It represents a symbol of resistance, of sacrifice, of fellowship in the Homeland War. Vukovar has an extremely important symbolic position in many ways, including the fateful place in the history of the Croatian state, especially in the formation of a modern Croatian society. Cultural and national identity, experience and meaning of the 91st Vukovar goes beyond both local and regional and national levels, and it is also a European and world phenomenon of resistance and sacrifice. Courage, patriotism and unity, sacrifice. Croatian people thanks... the resistance of the Vukovar defenders, as well as the cataclysmic destruction and human casualties that have not been recorded in Europe since the end of II. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Holy shit. War, recognised by Vukovar as a symbol of resistance, courage, patriotism, community and sacrifice. Vukovar is a special symbol of the young Croatian state and the struggle of the Croatian people for freedom, national independence and territorial integrity. A major Serbian aggression along with JNA at Vukovar in 91 and with the help of domestic rebels in the area, almost in most of its months of occupation, has resulted in a final occupation of Vukovar itself and have left deep negative and in many respects the lasting consequences of its rich historical, cultural heritage, in a demographic picture because human casualties and losses were extremely large and extremely difficult. This law is needed in order for this piet which we express every time we come to Vukovar, when we remember those days when it got hurt and when heroism was first, we must stress that the victims of Vukovar must never be forgotten, so this law clearly defines all the places where the victims were, how they happened, how they were marked, how they were remembered, and how they were never forgotten. Unlike those who say that this law is meaningless just because there are no material and financial indicators in it, I'm really amazed by such a debate of such people who, without a soul, without a heart, without emotion talk about this law. They are the same ones who say that the job was not done in 45th, they are the same ones who would probably like to go along with Vukovar, that the Vinkovci and Zupanja fell and that they had reached Zagreb. Thus, their exposure could actually be seen, but the preservation of the permanent memory and memories of Vukovar's victim cannot be clouded by such insensitive heartless people who have never really wanted or loved such a Croatia. The goals we want to achieve by this law in Vukovar are declared to be a special homeland pitet, and there are two key objectives, the establishment and preservation of a memory culture for the victim of Vukovar and activities aimed at the social and economic development of the Vukovar area as a whole. The law defines the concept of a special homeland pitet and the area concerned, which is the town of Vukovar and the village of Bogdanovci, the places and period, the days of a special homeland pitet, including the period of 17-20 November and the way of marking a special homeland pitet. As a special pitet, the National Memorial Hospital Vukovar is defined as a special pitet, where there is also a memorial educational activity with the purpose of promoting the value of the Homeland War. And all those who talk about not coming there young, that there is no life there, there is life, there is life in full voltage, there are frequent visits by our students from all over Croatia, there are education about what it was, maybe it doesn't suit someone that the real truth is presented by professional and quality persons and the historical fact is really available there and visible. The same marking includes the development of educational activities and the preparation of professional educational materials with the purpose of meeting students of other Vukovar visitors with historical facts about the Homeland War and the preservation of memory of the role of Vukovar in the defence and creation of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the establishment of a final list of dead and missing Croatian defenders and civilians of the Vukovar area, which is also a permanent task until all those still missing are found. I, an important role in all this marking, will also be played by a special pitet, a public institution in the Homeland War Vukovar Memorial, which organises educational educational visits to the city of Vukovar. We hope that the positive student, the impact on the development of the Vukovar area, will have all these legal measures and criteria, that everything else will be adopted in the rules or regulations to be drawn up and proposed by the council that is defined here, and we believe that this council, which certainly has a special role to play and is composed of most and state institutions, but also defence representatives, will aim to help as best and best in further development, progress, co-existence and all details that certainly make Vukovar a special city and deserves its special place in Croatian history. Today's debates could be seen as political and those who wish to overshadow the actual adoption or debate of this law by saying that it was intended for pre-election purposes. I believe that it is so that it would not then go into discussion in two readings, that it would not be discussed as it is happening and that most MPs agree that in the community we should pass a law like this, that it would benefit all Croatian citizens, that it would be honor and pride for Vukovar and Vukovars, and the memory of the victim is primarily what is written in the very piety of the Homeland War. I believe that all these attacks that my colleagues said today were not pleasant at all, were not at all in the right place and that this should not have happened. And on the committee itself, it was debated about everything and everything, not just the measure of things, not the essential items that this law adopts, and therefore I call on my colleagues to think again about those who, who cannot understand, who do not feel, who have no emotion, who probably do not want and who call both Tudjman and everything else names even though they have actually had in their working life and the most useful things from him. I believe that the objectives will be met, that this law will be proud of both the Governments of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament and that all those on the board have been restrained or who are now against this law that they will think again by tomorrow and vote to Yet the union prevailed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179738	Thank you. We have one replica of the esteemed Uncle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179739	Thank you, Vice President. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, Djakic, we often testify that colleagues from the opposition do not have one single argument to oppose the adoption of a certain law are often used by demagogues. So we had a chance to hear, you politicians, as if they weren't government officials, are not politicians. Then it's due to the election, so who stopped them from making such a bill three or four years ago, I'm sure you and I would have supported it. But when you have a government, when you have a council of parliament that's really committed to the problem of the Homeland War, the defenders, the military, the police, it means to all the forces in charge of Homeland Security, when you have results in all the fields, and then we're turning the mantra, it's because of the election. Of course it's the election, but there's two things we need to weigh, one that has results. and who doesn't have the results. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] They don't have them and they never have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179740	Dear Representative Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179741	Thank you very much. A colleague, of course, when the mayor of the county, the defence population, the ministry and the administration and defenders and the defenses and all other relevant factors agree, when there are no arguments against then invent the thesis that absolutely does not stand. Then there's a law that doesn't ask for any means to, it sucks. Imagine, Stazic says a law that does not seek any means is meaningless. Without any emotion in it, without having any compassion for the law that speaks of piety, he didn't remember when he came to Brijuni for years and spent 7 kunas with his world and with Sherbedija and others today. We have never discussed this before, and today the state allows him to be sad. Surely it is neither will nor desire for this law to see the light of day and begin to apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179742	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179743	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I wasn't in Vukovar during the war of course, I wasn't even in Vukovar before the war, I was a few times after the war, and I wanted to talk about this law actually about the very concept of a special pie from someone who's a Vukovar. That's why I talked to my longtime friend, the war defender, who was a defender, but he was a defender and in peace because for many, many years we've been working together on the Franak case, it's Vlado Iljkic, who is an idea beginner and author of the slogan "Vukovar place of special pitet" and is also one of the authors of this project. So then in talking to him I prepared a text that I'm going to read here, it's actually saying someone who's right from there, I'm not saying it, but I totally agree with it, so it's almost like it's saying that man instead of me or me instead. Thus, “the government's idea would be to put the moral, ethical, social, spiritual, judicial, legal, sacrificial, historical, sociological, demographic, cultural, peaceful, economic and any other dimension of Vukovar into the context of man, in the context of the people, in the context of the city of Vukovar, in the context of the Croatian state, in the context of Europe and the whole world, this idea is deeply human and anti-war, but also against oblivion and insists on the truth and on justice. Since 2014, there has been an idea of a recognizable demarcation of the site of injury in order to avoid excessive differences in approach. Vlado told me that the inspiration for this solution was found in him in the most beautiful song in the world, which is our anthem and in the verses “until we have the oak of the storm. ” The oak is a century-old symbol of the survival of the Croatian people, in places of destruction or within 50 meters, a space should be found and an oak planted with which to place a discreet info board and make a approach path. Thus, places of heroism, suffering and sacrifice in Vukovar would be encased and loved by the symbol of the survival of the Croatian people with oak which is also part of the Croatian anthem. This would enlarge the landscape architecture and eventually the city's vision itself because the centuries-long living symbolism of oak would strengthen the Croatian identity and survival of Vukovar. That is exactly what Vukovar should mention, whose century - old symbolism in every sense surpasses and surpasses the inanimateness of present mentions of traits. In addition, Vlado reminds that oak is a tree of two worlds because of its developed tree and roots, and that it would eventually produce itself. The grain of such werewolves had a special symbolism. Similarly, there is a proposal to establish a home of world peace in Vukovar, precisely because there is no human right that has not been mercilessly trampled in Vukovar, Vukovar and Vukovar deserve a home of world peace that should contain all documents relating to human rights adopted anywhere in the world where they would, in their full sense, be accessible right in Vukovar. An ideal beginner and author of the slogan "Vukovar Place of Special Pitet", a part of my text disappeared, so "home should contain documents that speak of all totalitarian regimes in which human rights have been violated. The home of world peace in Vukovar should host a special UN academy every year and eventually become a European and world education centre in the field of humanistic sciences. In the context of all of this, the protection of human rights in Vukovar should reach such a level that Vukovar, according to the cities of the capital of culture, could one day declare the world capital of human rights. This would, in line with the idea of a special pitet, be a paradigm for the context of Europe and the world as a whole. There is also a elaborate idea of the monument of Vukovar Park, which in the area of about 12 square kilometers would combine the model of the destroyed Vukovar and all its significant facilities, roads and first lines of the battlefield. A memorial park with such a model would be surrounded by an alley and a park of friendship which would be materially dedicated to the natural and other features of the county and cities where the Vukovars were staying during the persecution, so Vukovar and Vukovars would continue to cultivate unbreakable relationships established in the most difficult days for people and for the city." Today we could hear a lot, but it seems to me at least that one drink towards Vukovar. There's been a lot of talk about some kind of struggle we've been hearing about here all the time in the assembly for the last three years. It's always the same story, someone's always attacking someone, and someone's always criticizing someone. And what I've just read is actually supposed to be some kind of Vukovar paradigm. Vukovar should become the centre of Croatia in some way, including the centre of the world. And we're never gonna do that as long as we're looking at each other here in the assembly of life and anywhere else. We just have to leave behind this past that we have and let the institutions deal with what's not solved because we're not gonna solve it here, and we're not gonna settle it with our neighbors unless our neighbors answer. So Vukovar can really become one great place, but only if we're going to work on the content, if that law that's going to be passed is not just a letter on paper because I'm afraid of what often happens with such laws, that they become just some sort of ceremonial phrase, and that's not really it. So we're working on content, we're working on making Vukovar truly a city of friendship, a city of peace, a city of excellence after all and leaving the past behind because the past doesn't do us any good, if we're going to talk too much about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179744	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Šipic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179745	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If no topic should cause and cause divisions and any variations on this subject, then it is certainly Vukovar. The symbol of defence in the Homeland War, so much suffering and sacrifice in the proud struggle for Croatia, must not be a polygon for new divisions. This topic, this bill of law today should be read and reduced to the smallest or minimum debate. Why? Because I said, "divisions" and "what attempts of petty political collecting" won't give rise to wise suggestions and fair conclusions on the subject of Vukovar. Today we should have read this proposal all together said, yes, for Vukovar, yes, for a better future because that's what Vukovar deserves. In Vukovar, changes are seen when it comes to investment in all fields. This is seen and this law even more wants to make an effort to feel life, to open jobs, to keep people staying, to preserve hearths. Every new division, every new demonstration of various small accounts, and even in Parliament, does not contribute to what Vukovar needs, and Vukovar needs a better, better-looking future that will not be based on any debates today, especially in this pre-election cycle or election cycle, but a future based on new projects through life, that Vukovar needs. This proposal gives due respect to sacred places in Vukovar, but emphasises that Vukovar is facing a new development period and that all authorities in coordination will make decisions and support anything that will preserve and develop life. On the one hand, there is a proud, hard and bloody past that gives due respect and memory, and on the other hand, a turn towards a better future. This bill aims to create a lasting relationship between the executive and the legislative authorities. Against the City of Heroes, a city that is more than emotion, a city that is the first on the bumper to stop thousands of lives, innocent fates, missing, murdered, persecuted and proved to be the gold, that is the most valuable and brightest point of the Homeland War. Therefore, if so, and is, then let us leave our division and accept everything that is good and everything that opens up a new perspective for these people and that restores the new hope to Slavonia, a special place to such a world, and that is Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179746	We have one replica of Honorable Agent Davor Loncher.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179747	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. A colleague, Ivan dear. We've been listening to this here all day and I thought absolutely not to answer, but by listening to all this we pray to, who are we praying to accept this law when it comes to Vukovar and everyone else who died in the Homeland War? Is it not for this troubled city, the sacrifices that this city has given, that it has not earned such a law? What country do we live in? In a country where we are challenged by those who are not here. In the country of individuals who never loved this country and when it was the Homeland War, they ran out of this country. Finally, I agree with my colleague, Cule, from word to word. We should stand in the way of all those, without delay, as we went to the Homeland War, even today because they have no right to defile the Homeland War, especially Vukovar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179748	Thank you very much. Before we continue to welcome the students and students of Josip Slavenski High School from Čakovec. And now with individual.../incomprehensible... and excuse me, the answer, the respected representative of Šipić. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Davor, here's a picture today and quite well that we've welcomed the children and the students and the young because they've grassed, as we say in Dalmatia, we've done, so just when we're talking about Vukovar, a place of special piety, so we have children who attend a half-empty debate, especially an almost empty hall, and we have them who should, as we say again picturesquely in Dalmatia, children and young people, light up and pass on to another which means the name Vukovar. Here, empty, empty places. It may be a difficult comparison for someone, but this is how it used to be empty when it was voted that Croatia was going its own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179750	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179751	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. The Homeland War, the victim of the Homeland War, Vukovar deserves us to be here today and in this place and to discuss this law as well. In order for any city to be a place of special pitet, the first state in which we live, there should be a place where justice, justice, and solidarity lived. The Vukovar was both loved and successful and visited and dignified city, it was a city, it was a place celebrated in life and there was a war, there was a weapon, General, you know what a weapon is, we all know and we know that even the conquerors who use weapons in those ways that are not allowed to use weapons, then the weapon was used to destroy and we need to be aware of it. That weapon was in the hands of the wrong policy, in the hands of the great Serb politics that wanted to take what hers was not. We won that policy. That's the policy we've been talking about. That policy has been humiliated forever. They can push as hard as they want, that policy is humiliated. We see from today's debate that there's still a cramp in people as to the victim of Vukovar, the victim at all. And that regardless of these soulless policies that today, in any way, are trying to profit on this subject, and I would like to say to everyone who has used today's debate for any political competition, for any political point, shame on you, any gentleman who you are. The Vukovar is now a symbol of pain, suffering, suffering, suffering, and treason. Vukovar is now a symbol of the resistance to war, a symbol of the victim of war, and a symbol of the community that we all need together and give hope. I want our Vukovar to become the place of a special country petite, which this law intends to do. But in order for this to become a Vukovar, to become a state, I want to first revive both justice and justice and solidarity, which we have not yet, we need to be aware of and in this particular case means that what evil happened in Vukovar and anywhere in Croatia during the Homeland War, should be called the right name, should be condemned just as all those who have done this evil should be condemned. Then we will be able to talk about the conditions created for Vukovar to be a place of special piety. I want Vukovar to be loved again, successful. a place to celebrate life. It will be if we leave all the policies of hate, all the policies of division, we simply have to leave. If none of that matters, we need to be aware because that's how it's done, it's not working without it. So I'm saying that Vukovar, in order to succeed, has to live the breadth of the winners, the width of the winners who were in the war where we have mastered and that great Serbian politics, put her where she belongs, but I want the same thing to be a winner, and to share that width of the winners and in peace, which is that politics or hatred that is trying to persevere among the people, I don't know, all the layers of society, I don't know what we're not sharing everything with today, with this policy and with this way of life, we just have to stop if we want to give the drink of Vukovar in this way we're talking today. To pass the law without that and such a breadth of the victors both in the war, how in peace is defeat and we will all be defeated today if we do not realize that we need and need the breadth of the winners. So on the back of Vukovar today, we're not only putting on the label of a town that's going to be a place of piety, but we're putting a huge burden on that city, believe me, a huge burden because it's a city that needs to be a symbol, through whose prism we need to see that we're able to expand that culture, that width of the winners. I want us to win by that hatred of politics, that state of man, that social belief that can even lead to this, to such crises that it happens and such evil as has happened. I will support this law by raising my hands tomorrow, but I will also support it with a persistent effort and a persistent struggle for a policy that will be a policy of hatred, which will be against the state of man and a system of beliefs that leads to such hatred that such evil happens in Vukovar and throughout our country during the Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179752	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179753	Thank you very much, Vice President. First of all, I congratulate the present Minister of the Bear with his associates and all those who participated in this law to see the light of day. I can tell you that we've waited a long time for a law like this and finally welcomed it. Tomorrow, those who press red or white will, therefore, be held back or against this law, thus showing their attitude toward the Homeland War and all the victims who have died, all the missing and all those who have been exiled. We've been waiting for this law for a long time, and this law needs to be understood in several ways. Unfortunately, there are now none of those in the assembly who have spread bile, hatred and animosity all morning under this law and all the positive facts and benefits that this law will bring for the people of Vukovar, the surrounding places and the whole of Croatia. Unfortunately, now they are not here to replicate and to talk in a reasoned manner in dialogue. They spilled their bile and then they left but I believe that every well-intentioned Croatian citizen, every resident sees what happened by noon in the assembly and that at the very least they are disgusted by it. The symbol of Vukovar, we've heard, exceeds the local and national level, and that's a fact. The number of killed, killed, violently taken, exiled and missing with all the enormous material damage and completely destroyed city, through this law symbolizes the act of hate and aggression, the act of resistance of the naked people against the superior aggressor. We've heard that Vukovar isn't just a once-a-year memory column of how some of these people tried to impute this government. Vukovar is much more than that and it will be through the law and later in further upgrade through other legal frameworks which this law platform is very much felt. By declaring Vukovar an area of special homeland pitet, a legal framework for the special national status of Vukovar will be created. This law deals not only with the Homeland War and the past as they have spoken falsely, this law deals primarily with the future that grows from a painful, tragic but proud past. This law deals with its defence-sufficient population as well as current residents and future generations of Vukovar. I thought during the morning I'd ask some MPs to stop deluding the public by telling the truth, but now that they're gone, I don't have anyone to ask. This law on the declaration of Vukovar has nothing to do with bilingualism and is manipulated all the way to noon with two facts that are not true at all. So bilingualism, so now I'm going to use three minutes for a little history lesson and a little lesson for those who all the time in this assembly manipulate, maybe some of them listen, maybe they don't care, but I'm going to use my time to direct the public to facts. So, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities prescribes bilingualism, why? Well, because from 2011 on, there have been 1/3 members of the Serb national minority living in Vukovar, which today would be 33% of the members of the Serb national minority. This law is not above the constitutional law, he doesn't even want it to be. If someone wants to change bilingualism in Vukovar and throughout Croatia, then it is known how it is done and what the procedure is, the procedure is to vote in the Croatian Parliament. For one, bilingualism is a privilege and for the other is a stone of stumbling and interference. Those who use bilingualism as a stumbling block and interference did it this morning and then went home and now rub their hands satisfied because they think they threw a new bile among the Croatian people but I believe in the intelligence of the Croatian people and I believe it will not happen. Croatia is a country where national minorities, including the Serb national minority as one of the most numerous, exercise very large and high rights and thus enables quality co-existence. National minorities have no objective reason to be dissatisfied but also the domestic population of Croatia, the Croatian population, must not be unsatisfactory and must not be at the expense of them. For us, Hrvatite Vukovar is a key point in defending the eastern border of Croatia in the Danube, and for the Serbs, it is a city where they cross 1/3 of the population by number and thus according to the applicable laws that I have mentioned, despite all the horrors, they acquire the right to bilingualism and that is the fact. According to this, if we look at numbers, Vukovar has returned to pre-war conditions, and now the aggressors and victims must live together. They live together together and it's not easy at all, it's not pleasant, it often causes frustration and dissatisfaction. Even in my hometown of Aljmash, we are now Erdut municipality, Erdut municipality and the Hungarian municipality of Erdut, so trilingualism, Serbian, Croatian and Hungarian. Do I need to be frustrated? I don't think so, I think it's one civilizational reach of peaceful reintegration and it's part of the Erdut Agreement signed in '95. and otherwise, if we know that in Croatia minorities are more than 10% of the population, the exception is the Serb population, which makes up 4.5% of the population itself, we have Italian, we have 4 national minorities who exercise very high rights in Croatia and have gone further in achieving these rights and it is not only Serbian but also Italian and Czech and Hungarian. The Erdut agreement, no longer in force, which was signed in '95, which stems from the Dayton Agreement and during President Tudjman and Milosevic's negotiations when a peaceful reintegration of the Danube was agreed, guaranteed Croatia a Serb minority of all rights and agreed peaceful reintegration on our part. And why now some in the assembly all morning deceive the Croatian public and claim that some kind of government has done some sort of exception, some humiliation, some sort of concession, that someone has done something that has not done? Why are they doing this? Are they doing it out of ignorance of historical facts or are they doing it maliciously or are they doing it for both of them? I'll leave the answer to the Croatian public. Erdutic agreement, as I said, is no longer in force but since '91. Croatia had the first law to guarantee certain rights to national minorities, and then the second law was the 2002 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. etc., etc., etc. And now we're in 2019. So this government didn't do anything from what was said here until noon. Also, this esteemed minister and the general were imputed to, objecting to some kind of leverage, as the prime minister also objected to national minorities and certain individuals and such nonsense. Well, I'll say it's just bullshit. It's sad, but it's nonsense and stupidity has dominated here all the way up to noon instead of talking about what it's like to taste and measure this law. Instead of admitting that this law bears only positive effects and benefits not only for defenders, not only for the people of Vukovar but also for future generations of Vukovar. Also, instead of admitting that this government has invested in Vukovar truly enormous funds, if we look at figures and talk specifically about facts, then 435.68 million kuna is paid out of the state budget for the city of Vukovar and if we look at Vukovar and the entire Vukovar-Srijem County, then it is 863 million kuna, which is in relation to some previous governments, immeasurable. If we look at the effect of tax reform, it's 9.5% more money for the city of Vukovar. They said that Vukovar was a dead city, that nothing was done, it's not true. I have 36 seconds and I can't count what was done for Vukovar but more than 2,000 people were employed, 618 families got family homes that cost 50 million kunas, 181 apartments one by the government or the state, 318 apartments were bought and given to people, so in Vukovar is invested, residents are helped, it's true, these are facts and these other things are unfortunately spoken here are false and plantings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179754	Thank you, we have several replicas, the first respected representative of I. Music.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179755	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Irene, you were talking about exiles from Vukovar, banished from Slavonia, and you're one victim, so you could say that which you had to go out of your Almash with your family, I remember those days, those wages, those tears, those problems, it's not just Vukovar, and there's a lot about Vukovar and in Vukovar and the national minorities when we look at today, when they say we're not a democratic country. All national minorities respect us, we have Russians, Hungarians, Serbs and all other national minorities, have no problem but Serbs today have not reconciled to respect but should be respected and there is a problem. They must understand that this is a Croatian state, that this was won by war and democratic means, but their problem is that they are actually causing problems in our Slavonia. It's not us, it's them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179756	Honored representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179757	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic, I fully agree with you, the rights of national minorities must not go to the expense of the Croatian people and the domicile population in these parts. Of course, there are reasons for frustration, of course they have returned and some who have committed war crimes and unfortunately have not yet been processed, but that is no reason for us to do extra hate, to make an additional feud and to do further aggression on that population that needs to live together and that we should live together and that we should live in co-existence. As far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, many countries in the world do not have such rights towards national minorities as the Republic of Croatia has achieved by the first law, as I said in '91. Each of the following laws has gone hand in hand to national minorities, and today we can say that if we look at even in the world, national minorities exercise extremely high rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179758	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Strick's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179759	Thank you. My fellow Members, I have listened carefully to your debate and I truly agree that some of our colleagues come to the assembly to spill bile, hate, animosity and then disappear instead of staying here and being reasoned and effectively debated. I often point out that there are no battlefields from Vukovar to Dubrovnik where there is no Varazdinac, and just now the Varazdins are tied to two symbols of two cities, Vukovar, symbol of the victim and Knin, symbol of victory. With the Vukovar police, with Knin's army. Well, here's just a couple of information relating to the crime scene and the Međimurjes who defended Vukovar. Of the 1021 officers who were down through eight shifts, the last group, those 185, 21 died, five missing, 66 badly wounded, 119 ended up in concentration camps. In addition to the attempted breach by the special force of the gender police, four died... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179760	Thank you, distinguished representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179761	Dear fellow Striker, you know well how it was in those days and how hard it was and how much it left on man, on family and on society. And when we listen today to some as a colleague of Zekanovic who is based on animosity, hatred and attempt to impute true Croatian defenders that today they are some traitors, that souls are sold, etc., I feel that every true Croatian defender is degutantly listening and that they are disgusted. And if my colleague Zekanovic thus builds his political platform, on hatred, on animosity and on the feud of the Croatian people, I think it is not worth it in the long term and that sooner or later it will all be charged in the justice of God, as it is said in our people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179762	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179763	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I believe that your debate has been listened to by many citizens of the Republic of Croatia and, in fact, after your debate, perhaps you should not say anything more because you are a winer of these events first as a refugee from Aljmas and afterwards as a returnee after a peaceful reintegration. It's good to see these things, maybe our common sense doesn't require us to repeat the same things a few times, but given the unlegality of our colleagues and the distortion of facts, it's good to say two things that you've repeated. First, when they talk about aggression at the Republic of Croatia, in 2000, the Croatian Parliament brought the Declaration into the Homeland War and there clearly stands who is the aggressor. Another old, what you say, constitutional law on the rights of national minorities. 8. which says how and how a certain letter of national minorities will be used in a particular area, in this case in the town of Vukovar itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179764	Honored representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179765	Thank you very much. Dear fellow, I was an exile and not a refugee, it was the exiles who had to leave and the refugees might have had enough time to pack themselves up, and unfortunately we didn't have time to pack up, so we had to pack up that one. 8. '91. Even though it was hot, even though we had to get on that tow, we loaded on ourselves and winter coats and you know, jackets because everything we wore on ourselves, we could take it out, and we didn't take anything else out. When the New Sad Corps was over the Bogoyev Bridge, backed by white eagles, we knew that we had about a few hours to evacuate or likely be slaughtered. Unfortunately, it's facts, but I don't live with hate today and I don't live with hate to anyone. I think I'm witnessing mutual tolerance and I think I'm trying to reconcile those warring sides with every speech I've ever made because I think hate creates only new hatred. Then we're trapped in that spiral and we're not carrying anything good to ourselves or to society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179766	The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179767	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, a respected minister, respected state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so Vukovar is a symbol of the Croatian state's suffering, but Vukovar is also a symbol of the position of the Croatian state. And that's obvious, and that's how it's gonna stay. The very battle for Vukovar has a special, special place in modern Croatian history, it is well written, studied, studied in military universities, the way it was actually conducted. It should be said that the Memorial cemetery in Vukovar is, in fact, the largest mass grave in Europe after World War II, and all of us who were there and those 938 white crosses we have seen actually symbolized all those who have disappeared, but also the youngest victim of 6 months or the oldest of 104 years. The exact number of people killed in the town of Vukovar is still unknown, talking about 4,000 and more people, there were about 7,000 people who were imprisoned in Serbian concentration camps and 22,000 people who were exiled from the city of Vukovar. Vukovar is a safe city that resisted the attacks of almost ten times as strong an enemy and what I said to my colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic surprises me, it is surprising when colleagues who are winemakers of that time here in the Croatian Parliament cannot remember these forces and powerful armies, these powerful tanks along the Trpinjska road, across the town of Vukovar, JNA tanks, Chetniks who were harassing and forgetting what was happening in the town of Vukovar. After World War II, the most talk was about the loss when Luftwaffe German actually leveled the city in Guernica, a Basque city and it actually caused a spooked whole Western Europe and the whole world, and even a great Picasso painted one of its Guernica which is being held at the Maria Sofia Museum in Madrid and that city was a city of suffering, a city of freedom and a city of destruction. Many cities in our nearby area and Srebrenica and Sarajevo have suffered great casualties, Dresden in Germany, today it has been said of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but Vukovar is actually the only city that has been under siege for more than 87 days, even though it has been said then that this war will actually last in Vukovar for several hours. That's lucky it didn't happen. When compared to today's St. Then St. Petersburg. Petersburg actually had one retreat and it wasn't, it wasn't in that environment. During the day today, representatives of clubs, parliamentary clubs, one of the distinguished parliamentary colleagues who spoke on behalf of the clubs spoke quite sarcastically about this bill, saying that all of Croatia should be declared a place of special pite. So if we're going to talk about the truth and remember those days, all of Croatia was attacked, from Dubrovnik, Stone, Sinj, Karlovac, Sisak, so that I don't talk about this whole part of Slavonia and Županje all the way up to Vukovar and why not. All those who speak of it in fact both sarcastically and despisedly, I will remind them that in the same or similar way when we passed the Law on Defense, when we passed, talked about the strategy on national security, when we spoke and passed the Law on Missing in the Homeland War and now recently when we talked about the days and mentioned in the Republic of Croatia, talked about 18. The 11th as the Day of Remembrance, not the victims of the Homeland War, and the victims of Vukovar and Skabrnj, in a similar sarcastic way, and with contempt they spoke of it. The Vukovar as a symbol of the loss and as a symbol of the creation of the Croatian state is sure I am deep in the subconscious of the Croatian people and on the days when we mark this tragedy that took place for the city of Vukovar the whole of Croatia is complex in this. Every living thing has its own stages of growing up, and institutions have their stages of development, '98. For years, all those who were in Vukovar know what the city looked like, not only the city, but the facilities that were there. Well, I remember when we came to Vukovar, the trees were half, so there was no cross about how much that city actually suffered. After peaceful integration, which I think is one wise decision and President Tudjman, I think is one of the most successful UN missions that are then, but maybe here you are telling me the most successful mission. Therefore, the Croatian state has invested and invested in the city of Vukovar and in those areas. I said there's a process, there's a time that needs to happen for certain things to happen and they can't happen so fast, but it's a desire to be a city of prosperity, to be a town of prosperity, and actually to come back to it. At the beginning of his address, the minister himself said that this bill is the basis, if I remember correctly, for co-existence not only in the area, but the basis which will create one legal, in fact one legal framework for the special national status of the city, the city of Vukovar. What I was saying to my colleague in the debate, and what I want to point out again, no matter what we repeat, is that when we are in HS, because we are still seen by Croatian citizens, we give certain misinformation and we are actually confusing them by saying that in this proposal the law does not say who is the aggressor to the Republic of Croatia. I don't think there's any need to repeat yourself in certain things, but the Declaration of Homeland War has made that clear, and it's actually mentioned in the assessment of the state of the bill's proposal in the second paragraph exactly how and how it actually talks about aggression to the Republic of Croatia and who is actually an aggressor to the Republic of Croatia. Now I will return all these three minutes only to the law, so the law speaks of the Council for Homeland Pitet, Peace and Development and Art. 21st is actually said who are these members of the office of the president, government, resolution ministries, the very city of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County and 3 members of the victims of the Homeland War, defenders, dead, killed defenders in the Homeland War. So, being in this council is honorable to me, all those who are there, of course, will talk about those things that are subject to this law. The law also applies to art. 4, that's what I said in my replica, the law in section 2 below (a) to (g), I would also like to place a part that would actually talk about compensation for war destruction or material damage that was in the town of Vukovar itself, so also in the village of Bogdanovci, or in the municipality of Bogdanovci, because it is the subject of this law. The law also makes it clear that the issue of this law concerns Croatian defenders, the very population of the Vukovar area and the victims of the Homeland War in the Vukovar area. It certainly hurts the fact that some colleagues in a special way point out, say Cyrillic, the use of Cyrillic, bilingual plates only in Vukovar, so we talked about it very much in HS. I will remind you once again, because of all those colleagues who simply or simply do not read or do not know or want to accept the fact that through the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is in art. 8th of this law stands clearly and is said to regulate the rights and freedoms of the national groups themselves, members of national minorities who must be applied and interpreted with the purpose of respecting members of national minorities, but also Croatian peoples, therefore, in the town of Vukovar, for the development of solidarity, tolerance and dialogue between them. Therefore, both colleagues of Bulju who talked about it all day and colleagues of Zekanovic and other colleagues who spoke about it should say that the city of Vukovar and the City Council of Vukovar will decide when and at what time the time will come to put on bilingual plates, neither I nor them, and here they dare say nor the minister will decide, Vukovar will actually say when it is time for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179768	We have several replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179769	...President. A colleague of Babić, you said that Vukovar was defending himself for 87 days, it is a victim of great Serbian aggression, but it should be said that at Vukovar, too, this aggression actually broke if the plan was JNA in 15 days from the beginning to Zagreb and to bring down democratic power here. However, what should still be done, those who have followed this situation, this actually military defeat, is the victory of the JNA and the great Serbian aggressions wanted to translate into, to win or use as a reason to seek for the fall of the Vukovar direction and Croatian, Croatian, Croatian President, in order to then achieve what they did not by military force. Unfortunately, that's what we heard today. the requirements to be repeated in HS. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179770	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179771	Thank you, well-respected Vice President HS, dear colleague Tudjman, as far as I know you've replicated something similar to that of your colleague Bulju who didn't want to understand you, he was actually talking about what he wanted to say, and he didn't want to listen to what you're saying. It's true that the Vukovar defense is a phenomenon and it's an exception which is actually contrary to tactical and strategic military rules, and that's actually what's being said today at military universities, and what you're saying is actually a tactics that didn't happen then, and in fact all that happened after that peaceful integration, I'm convinced then by President Tudjman's wise decision, because those who weren't in Vukovar and who don't know that area, at that time military action with weapons that we didn't actually have, would require huge, huge sacrifices that would happen then, and the question is what would happen then with, with the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179772	The next replicas of the respected MPs Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179773	Dear counterpart Babic, it is almost hard to believe that someone was belittled and defiantly talking about this law, and that is what we have witnessed. I would say that the easiest way to express myself brutally is to spit on someone else's work, it's the easiest, it's hard to tell the truth, and it's even harder to hear the truth when that truth isn't responding, and I'd say that some of them just seem to root out from today's debate that there are new conflicts in Vukovar, that there's new hatred, that there's new excesses, that there are new incidents, that you can believe that someone is rooting for it to be in Vukovar again today, and they're sending such messages from the Croatian Parliament, they're just wanting it, so we can't let that happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179774	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179775	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, one of his colleagues today when speaking on behalf of the club, spoke precisely about the fact that the Republic of Croatia, but very, very sarcastically, should be declared as a whole with a special piety, he said, so do you think that the werewolf victim is more valuable than the one that was in Škabrnja, Petrinja or any other place that we are going to talk about special piety for the victims of Vukovar about ordinary piety for some other victims, that is the sarcasm we do not need. I am convinced and I am sure that both the people of Škabrnje and Petrinja will and want Vukovar to be a place of special pitet is a symbol, such as the symbols of the flag and anthem for one state and the symbol of suffering for certain countries are individual places. In Andermatt, Switzerland, 250 years is marked by the deaths of Russian soldiers by Napoleon, 250 years old. Therefore, as a state, we too have the right to have Vukovar as our place of special petite.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179776	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned one topic, and I think it's unfairly neglected and often we don't talk about it much, and I think she deserves it, which is a peaceful reintegration. Peaceful reintegration is a unique UN mission that in just a few years has returned occupied territory in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, which has been completely successful and has managed to do so without major incidents. I am sorry that we are no longer talking about this brand phenomenon, which we are no longer "exporting" it, which we are no longer talking about the positive effects of this, and believe me that the interest of both the scientific public and the general public involved in peace studies, peace processes is very large. Here we can brand Vukovar, not only as a place of destruction, but as a place of uniqueness in the world that has been achieved by the UN and Croatia on one side.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179778	Dear Representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179779	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what my colleague said about it being the most successful retirement of the UN mission, and it's a good thing it ended that way. You talk about branding as much as I know, and we are often in these mixed delegations that when we speak to our colleagues, we actually talk about this peaceful reintegration, especially for those countries that came out of the Soviet Union in Georgia, today in Armenia, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, we often tell them the way we were doing it back then. What I would like today, what I would like if you followed the careful exposure of your colleague, Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, I would like it to happen in the town of Vukovar itself and in that area aware of the facts that one and another people have been going through, but also knowing and keeping in mind what happened and who was the aggressor, the sooner we accept it, the easier and faster we will have co-existence in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179780	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179781	Dear colleague Babic. You said nice of you to say I have to admit, but in one thing you were wrong. This law was imagined and we all expected that he would solve the problem of bilingualism because drinking as a pitet doesn't really interest the Vukovars. They're interested in one other thing, and that's the excuse of those who destroyed Vukovar, who still live in Vukovar today, and the ban on Cyrillic plates. A colleague of the Petrieucan also referred to my exposure, so this is actually the answer to her. The point, the aim of this law, was to ban Cyrillic plates, if Mr. Stazic and Mrs. Petrijevčanin of HRID only said there was no war. There's also a defensive war, and it's a good thing that our General Bear stood up and defended our country.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179782	Thank you. My colleague Babic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179783	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Zekanovic. So you've been building that platform all morning on cyrillic plates, I'll just show you that when you took an oath in this Croatian Parliament you said you'd respect the Republic of Croatia's Constitution, laws in the Republic of Croatia, and international laws and acts applied by the Republic of Croatia. One of these laws is the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, don't be afraid of Cyrillics in Vukovar, don't be afraid of it because this law, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in Article 8 tells you when conditions are created through national minorities and majority people, the Croatian People's Council of the City of Vukovar will then tell you whether or not they will have Cyrillic. After all, you have, say, bilingual records in Istria with Italians who are not 30%, far less, but their local community said it accepts bilingualism and they accepted it. When it's possible in Vukovar, I don't know when it's gonna be, today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a year, 10 or 15 I don't know, it's gonna happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179784	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today we are discussing the Vukovar Act as a place of special homeland pitet, and it is actually surprising that this range that we have in the Assembly that on the one hand we have the support of this law, on the other hand we have fictitious support is said to be supported then there are also reasons why we do not agree that we have several discussions which have claimed that this law does not require any means, so it is pointless, that it will not bring Vukovar any benefit, that it will not live better, that it cannot be put into the law of pitet or that it is a false pitet to this requirement that it should be put into law by means of large-serbian aggression, and do not specify the aggressors of Serbia, Montenegro, JNA and the rebel Serbs in Croatia, so that we have a very devastating fact for political, and, if you will, an intellectual set of this Assembly in understanding and the law and intention of this law. On the other hand, it is surprising here that we had the opportunity and heard that we should, as the truth about Vukovar, give what is the product of great Serbian propaganda, and then in 91, when Vukovar fell and some media are repeating today, even though they were before, they were more supportive, and today they are only controversial. About Vukovar being betrayed, that it wasn't politics or that President Tudjman wouldn't let the children leave Vukovar. You know, there should be a reminder of what Marko Babic said when he was asked how he fell Vukovar after 3 months, he said, he came to me to light a slap on the guy who, like that, asked something because the question of how Vukovar could have been held for 3 days, not how he held out for 3 months. What should be mentioned here, so when it comes to, it's one thing when it comes to legal formulations, then it's something other than our emotional attitudes that are objective, to a lesser or greater extent objective and justified. To put into law the introduction, in the introduction of the law, that responsibility for aggression on both Serbia and Montenegro and on the JNA and the rebel Serbs, is then far more precise and legally with greater consequences than the formulation of large-serb aggression. A great, concept, the term of great Serbian aggression is a political term. The countries change their ideologies, their views, we have seen, for example, Montenegro, that it has changed that policy long ago, Serbia or the official part of Serbia, therefore, when we have such a formulation, then it means that it is a responsibility, that it cannot be denied only by giving up that ideology, but the states or institutions must bear responsibility for what is said. One of the objections here was that no financial resources were provided. Again, the question is how do we read this law because this Council is foreseen, the Council is scheduled for representatives of these three largest scientific institutions dealing with the Homeland War of History, the Institute of Croatian History, the Memorial-Documentation Centre, a documentary centre in Vukovar, to propose, advocate and indirectly commit the council, or to science, as it is called, the Science Foundation, to finance such projects. On the other hand, it is true that the law does not prescribe pythetics, but the law prescribes standards of behavior for the display of pythetics towards Vukovar and the victim of Vukovar, which is also the meaning of this National Pitet, Peace and Development Council, because some things can be standardized by law, but some are not allowed to norm. If we go, take it, there's no law on how we must behave when we play the national anthem, but it's known how it behaves. So there's something that's institutional, and there's something that's a standard of behavior, one of the generally accepted standards of behavior. Nowhere is it prescribed that Wagner should not be filmed, or filmed, but played, played in Israel, but I don't know, years ago I read that for the first time, I think that even Netanyahu was, but I'm not sure that he was the one who conducted that concert, that he apologized for playing Wagner for the first time in Israel. Wagner himself, he wasn't guilty, but this Nazi ideology had him or she used him. So, there are these, we have to be sensitive to these, to these differences. Kolega Panenic said that nothing that is imposed or imposed by force is acceptable, and we must agree with that, but that is precisely why this is the Council for Homeland Pitet, she, not some norm, a new commission that should all be postponed but just one, one institution that needs to agree with all of our emotions, a sense of justice, the truth, to come to a civilised relationship with the victim of Vukovar with all those demands to punish all those who have committed crimes. There were a lot of words here about bilingualism, whether it settles in one way or another, fellow Babic said it would be dealt with, but I don't think it would even be, there's a lot of things here, a few times it's and how many MPs have talked about that that about about about 9 thousand Serbs participating in the Homeland War. Those numbers go from nine to ten grand, if I'm not mistaken. And when it comes to Vukovar, it can't be that attitude that entire nations, or national minorities or communities, are streamlining and declaring those responsible for the crimes committed by their members or part of their members, because this data of 9-10 thousand Serbs in the Homeland War is simply going to be annulled, but it would probably be one big step if we were to take down this point of the bilinguality agenda at a certain time because I believe that everyone would accept it well both in Vukovar and in Croatia at all. So these tensions do not increase but simply seek a path for a just and long - term solution. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179786	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Replica, dear colleague Raguž, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179787	Comrade Tudjman, in your debate, you pointed out an important detail that has not been noticed in the debates so far that this law does not introduce pate according to Vukovar and that norms are prescribed to which the pitet is expressed. In the Croatian nation, there has been punitiveness towards Vukovar since 1991, so not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the Croatians in BiH and Vukovar has simply become part of our identity code in BiH, which we have expressed already on 18 November 1991 by creating the Croatian Community of Herceg-Bosnia on the day of the fall of Vukovar when we clearly stated that we want to be a politically equal people in BiH and we insist on it until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179788	Thank you. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179789	Thank you. A colleague of Raguž and just Vukovar had the effect exactly opposite of what both JNA and the aggressor in Croatia wanted to achieve because there was a homogenisation of the Croatian people and one common resistance especially because a good part of the people today did not understand and especially the younger generations who, by definition when they heard Croatia and BiH, did not understand that it was one wartime and that the defence, defence and Croatia and BiH depended on this joint effort and the Croatian community of Herceg-Bosnia was the first to oppose it because the SDA policy was then to seek solutions in the community with, it is forgotten that in the 5th month after Adzic's recognition of BiH, General Adzic asked Adzic to appoint several JNA Muslims, JNA generals to protect BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179790	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179791	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, when we are discussing Vukovar about the Law of Pitet in Vukovar, it may have been long, long ago to be brought, but welcome today to Vukovar, welcome to the Croatian people and the Croatian state. Looking at Vukovar today and knowing him once before the war, I simply can't say such a single crime that they've committed to that part of the world is immeasurable. At one time, 29 thousand people of 40 and some thousands of people worked in Vukovar. It's all ruined, it's all murdered, it's scattered, it's exiled. Of course, it is us as Croatian citizens, especially Croatian defenders who have left their lives there, their bodies and then we see what is happening and even in this Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian state that we have not been able to solve things until today. Today, there are people in this House who are trying to emphasize antifascism. Of course, German fascism is condemned in the world and so is ours, but where is Serbian fascism? Do they talk about fascism, Serbian fascism, here I am talking about colleagues who are not presently present, who are not actually interested in Vukovar, who are not interested in Croatian defence because they do not want to talk about it in Serbian. If we talk about Serbian fascism, they think we insult Serbs. No, we insult, we don't insult, we talk about those crimes that they committed. Their people, not all of them, are not as guilty as all the nations, but the majority of the people who wanted to take Slavonia, kidnap her, kill her, drive her away. In a way, they did it today. Today when we look at Slavonia, when we look at it from this corner, when we see that in this Assembly and everywhere we talk about some poor Slavonia which I can and where I live down there say yes. Why? Why are we poor? Not because Slavons are not worthy, not because Slavons did not know but because Slavons were exiled, torn, robbed, killed, to talk about Serbian fascism today, that would be the real word, Serbian fascism in Croatia and in BiH where we were killed, burned, good pictures and today we keep in mind not to say about BiH where they unfortunately killed 8 thousand Muslims in one camp. Such fascism since World War II has never been anywhere in these places or in the world. When we talk about national minorities in Croatia, and also about Vukovar, where Serbs, Hungarians, Russians and all other minorities live, I think national minorities in Croatia are far the best respected than anywhere in Europe. We have admitted to all that we are not interesting and here we have, let's say, I will mention Slovenia where there are 50,000 Croats in Slovenia, 10 thousand Slovenians in Croatia are minorities and Slovenians are minorities and we are not in Slovenia. I hope that it will be one day, just so much as to say how many Croats are correct people. When we observe today the Vukovar that has some, as far as I've heard 12,000 employees, excellent, of 29,000, imagine what it all looked like once when those fascists wanted to take that part of the rich Slavonia away from us. Today, when we see decorated and beautiful buildings in Vukovar, roads, roads, infrastructure, which I believe Vukovar certainly deserved, he deserved a lot more than that, but unfortunately Slavonia turned around, I would say, these 20 years. In a way, we have a railroad that I often mention towards Slavonia where we travel for 4-5 hours, sometimes the truth was we traveled in 2 and a half hours before 30. Why doesn't Slavonia solve it's the same question, I still think, this government, as far as I can see, I've been watching the last 4 years. It's working on it, and I thank them that way, I think it will, but maybe it's a little late because Slavonia has become empty, our children are leaving, the standard isn't what it was. Today, when we observe Vukovar and the Vukovar monuments in Vukovar, we see that they are trying to damage them, writing 4S on monuments, it shows only one sign that the same ones who attacked us in '91, who wanted to take that part of the world, didn't make peace with them today, that I'm not talking about Chetnic monuments and other things that are still standing there, it's one, one by myself, I don't know how to explain it, one state policy, all of them who haven't just made it fall down here because the Chetniks have nothing to do with them, and they don't have the right to build, it't mention, no one of our campers' rights from Vukovar, let's remember those columns, those kids, the day that Vukovar fell, when they occupied him, we remember all the crimes against our defenders who have experienced in Serbia in Stajic and around here, that we don't want to talk about Serbia today. Then what are we talking about, democracy, all of it, and that same people who attacked us are still trying to provoke us in certain ways. A short time ago, my colleague Raguž mentioned BiH where I came from, from my Posavina where 200,000 people were exiled, persecuted, killed, burned and today have very, very big problems in this so-called. A Serb republic that has become a crime and unfortunately admits the world today. Much more could be said, but colleagues have said a lot in these debates, so I would just like to say that Vukovar lives, that this law that has been passed on about piety is welcome, and I support it, I support that law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179792	Thank you. We have replicas, respected colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179793	Thank you very much, dear fellow Misic, you mentioned in your debate the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Poduna, which we should say is excellently implemented and unique in the world, the politically strategic operation behind which the late President Tudjman was personally behind, who always advocated peace, mutual tolerance, respect for all rights including the rights of national minorities, and if at least the Vojvodina Croats had half the rights as the Serb national minority had in the Republic of Croatia, that would be great, but they have no regrets and this shows the kindness of Croatian politics versus Serbian politics, but we hope that there will come a better time for the Vojvodina Croats and that they will exercise the rights that the Serb national minority has in the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179794	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179795	Peaceful reintegration is one, one of the great works of our President Tudjman in those times where people, not to die, of course, our defenders and others, but they don't respect it today, they don't respect it, they think it's normal that it is who it is. As for Croats in Serbia, of course, I would also like them to live freely in Serbia as the free Serbs live in the Republic of Serbia after all the crimes, and we have not committed crimes against them, nor have we wanted to take any Serbian part either in the Republic or in BiH, and unfortunately they have taken everything, killed, burned, and are still doing it in just one different way today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179796	I thank my esteemed colleague, Micic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179797	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have been discussing something that has already been adopted at the social battle level since the morning. That our social entity or what is viewed as a society has already adopted the values of the document we are discussing today, but it is evident from the debate that this is not the case, it is clear from the debate that the idea of patriotism and patriotism has taken place. The patriots and patriots are now almost identified with a pathological view, this pathological view is visible from the debate so far about what reality in Vukovar is and what reality these pathological patriots should be. All Croatian cities are, should be equal, but in this equality there is some kind of championship, Vukovar and Knin should be cities that are cities above all cities. The life that exists in Knin and the life that exists in Vukovar should be the paradigm of life in the Republic of Croatia and we know what life is like in Vukovar and what life is like in Knin. Life in Knin is even better than in Vukovar there are no such international, international conflicts, but in Vukovar, we can see from previous discussions that there is one vision for Cyrillic. Tell me, if there's no room for a Cyrillic in Vukovar, what city and what place should that be? Where's the Cyrillic supposed to be, if it's not supposed to be in Vukovar, which is a symbol of death? Just in Vukovar as long as the Cyrillic is not in Vukovar, the Republic of Croatia is not available. Those who deny and fight the Cyrillic in Vukovar are not and cannot be patriots. For what? Because they don't recognize the value of the Homeland War. Homeland war is a war that freed all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and freed all reality in the Republic of Croatia, and even the reality of the Cyrillic, if the Cyrillic is not free and if the national minority of none in Croatia or in Vukovar is not free and is not equal and can not consume its rights then those who prevent it do not recognise the value of the Homeland War because they say that the Homeland War did not free the Republic of Croatia, did not release all the letters, did not release all the nations, did not release all identities. Those who think in a way that they need to shorten certain rights because they have the fear of the letter are those who settled pathology in patriotism. They're the ones who can't love anyone. And they're the ones who can't be compared to any of the victims. It's those who because of patriotism's pathology are unable to adopt what it means to drink. Drinking isn't what I told my colleague, Maras, it's not a bad memory. But it's a memory of evil, it's a memory and it's the introduction of social compassion, individual family compassions and our ability to empathically approach the victim at the level of operational models. Not to make new victims, not to be buried in tragedy, but to express our condolences and our commitment to always being on the side of the victim. And we're on the victim's side when we fight for equality, for equality, when we fight for legality. Not when we fight for the autonomy of our will, not when we fight for the autonomy of some group, then we belong to pathology and pathological patriotism. I'm afraid there are. They blocked the possibility of life in Knin today, and they denied the possibility of living in Vukovar. They won't produce, produce, or know what a drink is. Their lives will be directed towards a warrior's call and a warrior's cry to keep on focusing on everything. This focus will not only be on one pathological truth in a city, but also on the members of their own party, their own group. Because those who have abused patriotism are, above all, identified themselves with patriotism and believe that the measure of patriotism is contained within themselves, they incestuously approach themselves in their reality, social, political, family, economic. They're radically incapable of giving away the pie to anyone, especially Vukovar. These were spoken by the separation of the father from the son; for years they have already done so; and they have spoken from Bohannon. Sinisa Glavasevic has given that famous speech in which she accuses, a speech in which she warns, a speech in which she condemns, condemns the same things that happen today. He condemns and accuses parliamentarians, MPs because their children are warm, and children in Vukovar are in scabs. Aren't the children of Vukovar today in detachment, in different schools, aren't the children of Vukovar today stealing? Because they are unable to express their identities, because we view the letter hostilely, because we consider our patriotism to be in a column that will prevent someone in something, not who will approach the victims with compassion. The truth about the Homeland War was that it was a defense war. The truth about the Homeland War was that it was a war in which the Republic of Croatia was freed. Those who are unable to accept it, those who today believe that the Homeland War has not freed everyone in Croatia and Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. In one text, I wrote that the Homeland War was a war for the rights of Serbs to be Serbs in the Republic of Croatia. I will repeat this again today, and Serbs in the Republic of Croatia are freed in the Homeland War because it guarantees them Croatian laws. All those who do not understand it, all those who do not understand it are not able to accept the value of the Homeland War as the war after which peace came. They bear war in their wombs; they will separate the Synish from the Bojan; they will not find in Bohannon the fatherhood of Synisha, nor will they find the sonship of Bohannon in the dead Sinisha. For what? Because they're not ready to drink. Because they did not realize what was more patriotic than they are in a constant war raid on everything that threatens them, and they are threatened by peace, tolerance, tolerance, diversity, equality. In the end, they are threatened by a free RH in which everything is free from Vukovar to Cyrillic, from Croats to Serbs, from history to culture. It is those who take away patriotism, that is why we are late to pass these laws and we must force the laws to adopt patriotism, to love the country, to love the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to love history and to be able to express historical facts. And the historical fact is that the Republic of Croatia was freed in the Homeland War and let those patriots conceited in their pathology do not live in the belief that they have convinced us all that they are patriots because they are not. They are pathology, living, walking in biology-inhabited pathology that does not recognise the value of the Homeland War and which do not recognise the independent Republic of Croatia in which all letters are released and in which all citizens are free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179798	Thank you. The people of Mali Bukovec Municipality joined us at the gallery, I warmly welcome them and welcome them to a pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. Next debate, respected counterpart Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179799	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As someone who is extremely attached to Vukovar, for Borovo Selo more precisely who spent his first working year there I will take for granted a little talk about Vukovar which most here may not know about the problems of Vukovar that we may deliberately or intentionally ignore. But before I look back at the law itself, I would say a few things in general that I heard from the debate and some of the thesis that has been presented today, and I should not think of them as such. So, first of all, we're here to discuss the Vukovar Act as a place of special homeland pite, so I don't know about you colleagues and colleagues, but I don't need the law to make Vukovar a place for me as a special pite. I think it's been until now, that it was a symbol of suffering, that it was a symbol of defense, but that it was also a symbol of victory. And I think that when we talk about Vukovar, when we talk about the Homeland War, we don't stress what Croatia is special about, and that's a peaceful reintegration as I said, the UN's single mission in the world, it's the commitment of the Republic of Croatia to reintegrate part of Croatia peacefully, which we also managed at the end of the day that all Croatian citizens have the guaranteed right and the right to minority letter and language if they use it. Many times in this debate have heard collective guilt qualifications for the Homeland War, which is being thrown at one nation, nation, national group or minority. But I'll tell you one thing, colleagues and colleagues, if we generalize, if we talk about collective guilt, then we're no better than those who've committed aggression because they're also talking about collective crime, collective Ustasha movement, collective slaughterers, and what I know is what, then we're no better than them, and I'm afraid those who think that's exactly what they're showing, they're no better than them. Also in a lot of debates I've heard qualifications that I could sum up in the expression of patriotism, that's me, I'm the embezzlement of patriotism. Fellow Members and colleagues, were some of us sitting here guilty of being underage during the Homeland War so that they could not actively participate in the defense or were they not actively involved for other reasons in the defense or had a working obligation? So are these people fewer Croats, less patriots because someone was holding a gun and they weren't for different objective reasons? I don't think so, because Croatia and the country love each other with both work and honesty, work and honesty of colleagues and colleagues, and that is how we can love Croatia regardless of sex, age, gender, nationality. Therefore, such qualifications don't seem to stop when we talk about Vukovar, when we talk about the Homeland War. I'd quote some colleagues before me who spoke. Here's the first one that's great for me. It's a fellow Djakic if I'm not mistaken. Life in Vukovar is in full swing. I would like my colleague Djakic to come to Vukovar when it is not Memory Day to see that life in full swing, not only in Vukovar, Slavonia in general, but Vukovar was before because Vukovar had been hit before by demographic problems because of the war, because of reintegration, because many people eventually chose not to return, etc., etc. There are a lot of problems here with economic, social, economic, I would rather this law solve such problems, not to make a mausoleum from Vukovar than to build a living city, to build a city that will be a monument to Croatian endurance, Croatian defiance when defending its, Croatian truthfulness when it comes to the Homeland War and Croatian vigor when spoken of and life, the co-existence of respect for other people and the love of their own. Also one colleague, I think my colleague Strick said, I'm sure they'd support a SDP law like this. Well, my colleague, Strick, I'm sure they wouldn't support it because speaking from the experience of several mandates, I remember that HDZ's opposition voted against absolutely everything that most of the time suggested, but absolutely everything and even if we had a white-colored law, I think HDZ would be against it. That's not the case now, we're not ashamed and we're not afraid to support what we think is good, but also not criticizing what we think is bad. Also, a quote from counterpart Petrijevcanin says those who squeeze red or white will show their attitude towards the Homeland War, referring to the vote on this law. And that's where we come back to who's already a patriot from whom and how he shows it. So if we warn of something that we think is a problem, is that why we're less patriots? Should we keep quiet if we think something's wrong? Why does HDZ always talk about consensus is the consensus he imposes, so it can be one way or another. Have you spoken to the opposition about this law, about any law while we're at it? Consensus yes, it sounds very nice, but consensus is only when most of it fits. As I said at first, I don't need the law to be a place of special pie, a special place, and as I said, I would like for some other reason to be a living monument to some of the qualities that I've apostropheeded. The law also provides for the establishment of councils for homeland pitet, peace and development, and this is a strong association for the famous Council to deal with the consequences of the rule of non-democratic regimes established on 2 March 2017. I think you all, colleagues and colleagues remember all the historical decisions that this Council has made to deal with the past. I remember 50 of them, I remember that they solved all the problems they were created for, I remember that because of them, these decisions made prosperity suddenly rise in Croatia without talking about GDP, living standards and people coming back. That's what this National Pitt Council, peace and development has to do with me. Because there's a very good saying in bureaucratic circles, when you don't want to solve the problem, then set up a council, a commission, a committee. Well, somebody's having fun, talking, arguing, but in the end, it's not gonna be anything anyway. And that's where we come to it. We're going to pass this law that I say, it's nice to be passed, but it's not crucial. Is that why tomorrow will something be better for the Vukovars, the Vukovars, the residents of Borovo Selo, the residents of the surrounding settlements, the east of Croatia, Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem? Well, I don't think so. I don't think so. And I think we're too burdened with our past. Of course, I don't think we need to talk about the truth of the Homeland War here because it's more than clear, at least to everyone who wants to hear and who wants to see. Besides, this House has brought the Homeland War Declaration, and I don't think we should go back to it. We should work on, that Vukovar, as I said, being a living monument to Croatian, Croatian endurance, Croatian defiance when defending its, Croatian respect for foreign and Croatian love for its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179800	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Honorable representatives of the government. Let's imagine the situation in Croatia looks like this. HDZ and the SDSS together in the pre-election coalition perform in the Vukovar elections. Imagine the next situation. The HDZ and the SDSS together change the statutes of the city of Vukovar and introduce bilingualism even if it were not a legal obligation, to de facto create a symbol of tolerance such as is still in Istria. Imagine that a party that, by its composition, has a multiethnic victory in the Vukovar mayoral elections, for example. Imagine if the president of Serbia apologized and laid a crown on Ovcara. Imagine the government in which the vice president will be a member of the SDSS, imagine that the show Fine is ours, the one led by Branko Uvodić from Vukovar begins with the performance of the Ensemble of National Games of the Serbian-Cultural Society of Education and gets a big round of applause gathered as guardians of the traditional culture of Serbs in Croatia and imagine, after all, that there is no independent Croatian Defence Ministry. We don't have to imagine that. This is what we had in Croatia in 2009, 2010 and 2011. Here, therefore, the 2009 election for the mayor of Vukovar was held by the HDZ-HSP-HSU-HSS-HSS-HSLSLS party coalition and imagine, SDSS. And it wasn't support. The mayoral candidate was Damir Barna, and one of the candidates for deputy mayor on the same ballot was Mr. Dejan Drakulic of the SDSS, after the deputy, not on the minority ballot, on the same list with HDZ and after the deputy mayor on the minority ticket, and today, Assistant Minister of Administration, if he has not yet become headmaster or something else. Imagine the words of the president of Serbia who says, "I'm here to bow down to the victims and honor the murdered." I am also here to, by bowing to the victims again, direct the words of apology and sincere regret and to create the possibility for Croats and Serbs to turn over a new page of history, the words set by the president of Serbia at the scene of the mass grave in Ovcara. We, and you HDZ colleagues, choose the society in which we will meet, as well as in these European parties. The one who said this in our society, Boris Tadic, president of the Social Democratic Party today, or rather the president of the Democratic Party, and the one who is in the European People's Party in your society, will not say that, do not be afraid. So when we choose society, we choose and follow society a little bit better. Of course, when I said that the Deputy Prime Minister was from the SDSS, it was Mr. Slobodan Downloader, when I said that HDZ and the SDSS had changed the statutes of the city of Vukovar together and introduced bilingualism, it was 2009, because of course they had a majority in the council, so that they could share power in companies together because then the council determined the company's assembly, then it was no problem to introduce the Cyrillic. Each company had its own sign on the Latin and Cyrillic. When it comes to power, there's no problem. Even the SDSS didn't mind, he was in the coalition with HSP, when he was in charge. Therefore, all of this happened in Croatia 10 years ago. Well, now that we're back in time, I'd better be back in 2009 than in 91, less stressed, less painful. So when I said there was no independent Ministry of Croatian Defence, there was no. There was the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity, the head of which was first Mrs. Kosor, who was otherwise declared honorable and is still an honorary citizen of the city of Vukovar, although they wanted to take her away in 2013, that title. And the show With Our Nice from Vukovar by the National Games Ensemble of the Serbian-Cultural Society of Education, you have on Youtube, January 2, 2011. There. So that history goes in different directions, we can testify in this case. The story with the Cyrillic and bilingual records was one play that would try to achieve a political point on the Split coast of trying to obstruct co-operation with the Hague court in 2001, and then when it came to power, it was not a problem to hand over General Gotovina. Thus, in 2013, 14, it was neither a problem nor to prevent the legal leadership of the Republic of Croatia from participating in a memory column and after that, in 2016, it was not a problem to go back to the coalition as those of the HDZ or those of the SDSS. Therefore, I suggest that the law also introduce infringements because the law does not really make sense if there are no infringements in it, so whoever does not comply with the provisions of this law, what Comrade Tudjman rightly said this should be a normal form of conduct. So nothing written here is something that may not already be implemented or that would not be a good pattern of behavior, and then if someone has a very strong desire to do politics on this one, then the opposite of the pattern of behavior from a protest is acted upon. Because just as some athletes in America protest against Trump's policy do not mark the intonation of the American anthem in the way most others do, so in Croatia, the legitimate form of political protest is also to behave slightly differently until it offends others, if it offends others, then there are breaking provisions. Not at all, not once, to justify some of my views, I used President Tudjman's quotes on various topics, so I can do it from 8.6.1997 when he arrived on the train to Vukovar. But do you know how easily I recognize HDZ policy in many things? I see what President Tudjman was saying, and I'm sure he'll do the exact opposite of at least today's HDZ and this past Karamarkov. So it's not, it's really not a problem to detect. I come into one problem that these others don't mind me often calling on President Tudjman, which I often quote, but what I can do is he's had a lot of good political judgments and evaluations. As far as this law is concerned, I think it would be better for the government to turn this into a declaration instead of a legal text. This is some kind of declaration, and in that sense, either put it in the law of a violation provision, and then one who doesn't show special country piety according to the criteria that someone's already set what's special and what's not, let's still pay the fine, so let's bring the matter to absurdity. So I'm against the fact that a city that had its normal course of development by 2009 and later suddenly pretends that someone said it to the mausoleum. About Vukovar are written many songs, most of them on the Latin but one of the most beautiful songs written about that city about his suffering may be, I don't know what letter he wrote while Balažić wrote for his song a man with a moon in his eyes in which he wrote the letter but it equally powerfully and equally with respect and equally thrills when you listen to it in any letter that it was written in any language that was sung. Because I don't share these and others by where they come from, which are by nationality, which are by faith and by race, but I only share them one way right now, is whether or not they hate. Therefore, Croatians who hate are not mine and Serbs who do not hate are mine. That's the way it is, I'm giving people away right now. And I have no problem saying that everything the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done that I was a member of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities since the publication of the 2011 census, so while the government was in power, including the last day of my term and the last hour of my term when I made one decision that the Constitutional Court confirmed to a greater extent was in my deep confidence in the interests of the Republic of Croatia, or as President Tudjman said in 1997: “All of what we do is not only in the narrow local interest but also in the general Croatian, general European and in the interest of peace, the future of this region and of Europe. And let us live the co-existence of the Croatian people with the Serb and other ethnic communities in these areas, let one and eternal Croatia live for us." A quote... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179802	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you've given a nice look at not so long ago history, so we can even, we can even realize that 10 years ago it was better. But I wanted to say something else, so remind me of something I've already said before and it's actually, it's some... Your kind of debate, and that's what HDZ policy is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Their mouths are full of unity on the one hand, and on the other hand they do all things to divide. Their mouths are full of justice and equality and you've seen their proposals for tax laws, superhic reform, give the rich more and the poor less. And ultimately, their mouths are full of democracy and they don't respect institutions that keep that same democracy like the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, I think that's smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179804	Thank you. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179805	To paraphrasise again the first Croatian president, today's HDZ policy can be seen in one paraphras of his statement, which is: "All for power and power for nothing." Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179806	Thank you. We have the next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179807	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I listened to your debate, what I want to say is that you will remain remembered in Croatia and as a minister and politician who introduced bilingual tablets to the Cyrillic in that city, that you tried to resuscitate it at night by entering the back door of that city, that you shared Croatia in that famous way us or them, you and your then prime minister, the current presidential candidate. And that's what history will remember and all these other expressions that you've said here at the expense of HDZ, etc., will be less important at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179808	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179809	I don't think anything's going to be called that song. My colleague Boric, I have no problem with how he will remember me, will remember me as the minister who implemented the law, who placed the plates legally and non-violently, and some others have stripped them violently and illegally. And for three years, almost four years after I stopped being a board minister they're still there, some are beautiful, some are not, but they're still there. I didn't put you on then, and then you didn't take them off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179810	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Nevenka Benic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179811	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs. I thank everyone for a comprehensive and constructive debate and all the proposals presented today will be considered until the second reading in the Croatian Parliament. I will point out once again that we want to evaluate the role and sacrifice of Vukovar in the Homeland War, we want to preserve not only the culture of memory but also encourage activities aimed at social development through systematic approach and the establishment of mechanisms to enable concrete development measures to be taken. To this end, we have defined in the draft law and the concept of a special country petite, area, place, period and method of marking. We are extremely important and pleased that many MPs have recognised the establishment of a council for the country's pitet, peace and development that makes up representatives of both state bodies and local and regional self-government, as well as scientific institutions and representatives of associations. The Council, which will have precise competences and tasks and which will contribute to the preservation of memory culture, social development, but also to understanding, solidarity, tolerance and dialogue among the inhabitants of the Vukovar area. This bill is only one package of government measures within the scope of all activities carried out for the Vukovar area. So we invite you all together to recognize the need to declare the Vukovar area as the site of a special homeland petite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179812	I thank the secretary of state. We have a replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179813	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State. I understand the government's intensity, but I don't think it's good. So I think that the vast majority of Croatian citizens with or without this law understand both the role and the symbolic meaning of Vukovar in the Homeland War and that this is simply not something that will increase this memory and respect, fortunately it will not be reduced. So I think that the declaration that would have been passed on an anniversary, maybe here in 2021 is 30 years since the fall or 2023 is 25 years from the end of peaceful reintegration, it would have been an opportunity for the Croatian Parliament to then bring one declaration that would have said this in some way. I don't think this is a classic legal text. I believe this is a declaration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179814	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Once again, I would like to thank the secretary of state at the Croatian Defence Ministry, Mrs Nevenka Benic, and her associate for their reasons and answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179815	Proposal for a law on the declaration of Vukovar as a place of special homeland pitet, first reading, P.Z. No. 808, the applicant is Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, they will accept the proposal of the Law on the declaration of Vukovar as the place of special homeland pitet. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 91 votes for and 16 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179816	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Proposal for a law on the transfer of founding rights over the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital to the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like a representative of the motion of the State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Mr. Zeljko Plazonić, to give us an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179817	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Therefore, this legislative proposal regulates that on the date of entry into force of the proposed law, the former founder of the General County Hospital of Vukovar and Croatian veterans of Vukovar-Srijem County ceases to be its founder and founder of the Republic of Croatia, and the rights and duties of founders on behalf of the Republic of Croatia will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, it is determined that the General County Hospital of Vukovar and Croatian Veterans on the day of entry into force of the proposed law continues to work as the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar. The mutual rights and obligations between the government of the Republic of Croatia, Vukovar-Srijem County, the city of Vukovar and the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar will be governed by a special agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179818	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179819	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Secretary of State. At first, we had a decision by the HDZ government to transfer rights to the county, but it was only at the end of the formal decision whether the financial decision was not in the hands of the county. The appointed council was appointed and ultimately the largest range that could be anything else was guided by collective agreements, according to HZMO's decisions, and now we have a transfer back to that state. I ask what will significantly increase after the business itself? Will the debts be reduced, that the state will solve this dubiosis that the hospital currently has or will continue this same business, and the state budget will solve the situation so that when it thickens up and then we'll add a little bit, take away a little? Here's the situation that's been so far. It wasn't up to the county, so this is just a formal act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179820	Next replica, dear colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179821	Thank you. My colleague Plazonic, I welcome this law and every country especially after this war, the Homeland War deserves to have one national memorial hospital, but there is also a major problem of veteran hospitals in Croatia that are also in debt. So, one memorial national hospital, but we should also consider the situation that the hospitals we declared as veteran, and we know why we did it also need a very different approach especially with regard to finance because they are all also in debt. I'm talking about a hospital in Knin that has a strategic position for the citizens of that environment and we also know what it represents and what it represents today, and it's the same with the hospital in Zabok. Do you also plan for other veteran hospitals to become state hospitals so that you can better control the costs or debts created there and treat our veterans?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179822	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179823	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with an associate, before this law we had a proposal for a Law to declare Vukovar a place of special homeland pitet, here we are now discussing a new law, in fact, on the transfer of founding rights from the county to the Republic of Croatia. Although this is not seen in the draft of this law, but tell me now whether these, mutual rights and obligations between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the County and the hospital will be regulated by special agreements, or is this simply foreseen by this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179824	Thank you. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, a respected colleague of Ines Strenja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179825	I welcome the chairman and representatives of the ministry. Today we have before us the Law on the Declaration of the General County Hospital of Vukovar, the National Memorial Hospital, and that is the moment when we really must, at this point I have to repeat some basic data which is why this hospital that suffered the most in the Homeland War, there were others, which is why it deserves this name. So from the perspective of the doctor who spent those days on another battlefield where it was also difficult to know how much it meant to us and how closely we followed everything that was going on in those difficult days in Vukovar, how difficult it was for us to endure, and how not to demoralize us in the end, but we simply realized that Vukovar had fallen, but that the rest of Croatia had to defend. It's been a rough day in Gospić. My colleague Plazonić and I were at the same place at the same time, in the same sanity. So, the symbol of Vukovar's death was the remaining Vukovar War Hospital, and her doctors and medical staff are heroes of humanity. During the 3 months of siege of the city, 4,000 wounded and civilians were taken care of and performed about 2,250 long-term operations, all under the rain of grenades that fell daily to the hospital even though there was a sign of the Red Cross in the yard. It's time that the cries from it didn't come out in an international community that was kicking, kickings watching what was happening, and that's killing one piece of work. And that Vukovar hospital was a symbol of that city and that's why they killed her. She shared the fate of a city mercilessly destroyed by enemy missiles. In the fall of 1991. Vukovar became a pile of ruins, 22,000 people were expelled, no buildings were spared, no hospitals. We're counting Vukovar victims today. In war hell, between 3 and 5,000 people among them were injured, patients and medical personnel taken from the basement of the hospital after the city was broken and executed in Ovcara. The JNA and Serbian paramilitary units did not respect any Geneva convention, and the international community did not respond to appeals from a hospital where there was no food, water, electricity, medicines, sanitary material. On the day of the city’s occupation in the basements of the hospital, 450 wounded and patients were pained, with 300 hospital workers and many civilians who were not saved by aggression. The bestiality and hatred of JNA and other Serb troops that destroyed Vukovar in front of the world, and after the occupation, they took the wounded out of the hospital and tortured them and killed them all every day, keeping us locked up by the radio, by the TV, trying to figure out what it was in a man who could do it to another man. Until yesterday's neighbor, a friend, and no answer. What was the situation before the attack? Dr. Crescent. Juraj Njavro, deceased, legendary our Dr. With the help of Blago Zadre, he described the war sanity in Vukovar as early in '91. The professional college of the surgical department consisted of 15 doctors, only two of whom were Croats. When the open conflict of the Croatian police and the military began, a large part of the doctor, JNA, a large part of the doctor and hospital staff mostly left the town and moved to the JNA side or went to refugee. A part of the Croats went, so it was everywhere, and in all our hospitals other than Serbs, the Croatian doctors went. And there remained a third of the staff in the hospital, including about 30 to 350, 300 to 350, among them only 30 doctors and among these doctors were doctors who remained both Serbian nationalities and remained the whole war. So most of them did their job properly and professionally. The escaped doctors were partially replaced by volunteers who came from Zagreb from Osijek. The open-ended attack on Vukovar began on August 25, 1991, a systematically destroyed city and did not save a hospital and was the director of Dr. Vesna Bosnian ordered the evacuation of patients and staff in the basement room. The JNA bombs hit the hospital at least 15 times directly even though it showed a Red Cross sign. During the attack on the city, about 4000 people were given medical assistance at the Vukovar Medical Center, and the surgically taken care of about 2500 to 2900 wounded, long-term operations, as I said, were about 2250, regularly keeping records of each operation and keeping all these documents until the hospital fell. Since the start of the attack, up to a fall daily, 30 new wounded were received on average, in some days to 80, most civilians, as much as 70 to 90%, more than 80% of the injuries were caused by explosives, hence the determination and will of the medical staff to help, treat and operate under the most difficult circumstances when human life was worth nothing and resourceful persons so effectively improvised in the lack of funds, show elevated humanity and intelligence that permanently marks the Vukovar war hospital and its staff. If we add to this the fact that enemy soldiers are also treated at the hospital, and the staff to the very end were multinational, then with all the recommendations and all the interpretations, we give the Vukovar hospital a special place in our society and history. It's even on our board yesterday, since we invited Dr. A Bosnian with his closest associates who have been through the whole death of an attack on a Vukovar hospital, said it should become a reference centre for ethics and delinthology in medicine because of the way they behaved during the care of all wounded. Today it is difficult to imagine the problems faced by hospital staff, so water has been carried for example for the last two weeks in cans from nearby wells, distilled improvised devices, collected rainwater, and as technical water was used even by the radiator, the diet was normal by the end of September, and then the restrictions started, the kitchen was moved to the basement where it was cooked on three stoves, meat was obtained by hunting cattle on the edges of the city or brought by boys from the battlefield, but it was always controlled. It is amazing that there was no more serious wound contamination in these circumstances, which speaks enough about the expertise and commitment of doctors and sisters. Just before the city fell, a gas gangrene appeared in nine patients, only three of whom died, which is what Dr. Aleksijević, last year he also showed us complete, professionally published such work on how they solved the gas gangrene and there were no medicines. The unequal battle for Vukovar ended with the surrender of the rest of the Croatian forces on November 18th in the early afternoon of the defensive part of the city in the space of 10 and 3 kilometers along the right bank of the Danube, left 15 thousand people who survived the three-month aggression and destruction, among them 1500 to 2000 children, many Vukovares were waiting for a new hell, among them and wounded by a Vukovar hospital, instead of a UN mission and teams of the International Red Cross hospital around noon, the members of JNA entered where 420 wounded were found, of which 390 were recorded by hospital documentation and ambulance protocol, with wounded there were 200 hospital employees, but also a number of civilians who sought refuge there believing that the hospital was as safe place. However, a doctor from the Belgrade Military Medical Academy Dr. Marko Ivesic, with the help of part of the Serbian national staff, carried out a good selection of wounded men, and in the evenings, most civilians and several defenders who moved to the hospital, transferred them to the JNA military and the Velepromet premises, where they were singled out, beat up, put on a bus and took them into the unknown. The next day on November 20th, at 7 a.m., Major Veselin Sljivancanin, who had been refusing to allow international organisations to enter the hospital for two days, organised a hospital staff meeting and informed that military laws are now in effect and that Dr. Vesna Bosnian has been replaced. During that time, JNA soldiers seized hospital records, taking mobile patients, civilians and some of the staff who were not at the meeting to the back exit. By 10 o'clock almost all the remaining men were driven by buses mostly in the JNA military, representatives of international organisations were allowed to enter at 10:30 when most of the wounded were already taken away, women, children, several elderly and a small part of the staff were found. On that morning, the government of SAO Slavonia, Baranja and Western Srema held a meeting with military commanders to whom local Serb leaders Goran Hadzic and Slavko Dokmanovic strongly opposed the transfer of prisoners to Serbia and were determined to stay in camps near Vukovar, which meant their fate was sealed. The Ovcara was later discovered and exhumed 200 bodies from which they were identified in 193, and the fate of 66 people taken from the hospital is still unknown. It has undoubtedly been found that 97 people killed in Ovcara were patients of the Vukovar hospital, so the battle for Vukovar and the Vukovar heroes are known to the Croatian public, both the crimes of JNA and Serbian rebels are known against captured defenders and civilians. The only thing that hasn't been honored is the role of the Vukovar hospital and its staff because the hospital was the heart of Vukovar, the heart of the defense, the shelter and the place where it all started and where it all ended, and the words to quote here, Vojislav Stanimirovic, who wrote in an article, "Don't forget, on November 18, 1991. The last bassion fell, the last haven of Ustasha authorities in Vukovar, a Vukovar hospital, by its fall was freed from the city of Vukovar itself, once a beautiful city," said counterpart Stanimirovic, if I may call him a colleague. This is what I wanted to repeat once again, to hear again what it is, because it is never enough times, what did this hospital mean in the war, and why does it deserve this special status in Croatian health care? Because it's a hospital that lives on. After a peaceful reintegration in 1997 it was re-attached to the health care system of the Republic of Croatia. That's when she was called St. Sava and then again became a hospital, Vukovar General Hospital, today a general county hospital. In 98, it started with a renovation, and it wasn't easy. One part of the hospital's employees stayed throughout the war and stayed working in the hospital and after a peaceful reintegration, a part of them still works in the hospital today. The Vukovar hospital is engraving about 85,000 patients from the Vukovar-Ilock area. And its position is therefore very important for that area of Croatia. In recent years, because of the emigration from Slavonia, the number of insurance workers has fallen, and now in Vukovar there are only 20, about 27 thousand and as we were reported yesterday on the board, more patients are coming and they are proud of it because patients are slowly coming from other parts, from all of Slavonia, from Vinkovac, Osijek, Lower Miholjc, because they have managed to maintain quality over all these years and doctors who are doing very good work on their rope specializations and their rope specialist activities. In addition, there are about 50% of the patients in the defence population and the victims' population, not only in Vukovar, but in the wider area. It employs approximately now, employs 680 people, of which 120 doctors, 80 specialists. The situation is good at the moment, although it is occasionally supported by specialists from Vinkovac and Osijek. There are 106 acute beds in 7 departments, 68 in the living hospital, running polyclinical hospitals. So the current filling situation is good, but it's a funding problem. The reconstruction has cost around 230 million kuna so far, covering construction reconstruction and the purchase of new medical equipment, sterilization and washing machines are already 21 years old after the first renovation and are looking for a new renovation, currently talking and trying to solve it through funds, through EU funds. At this point, the debt of a hospital older than 360 days is greater than 22 million kuna, and total maturity is 74 million kuna. It's a momentary situation. So I tried to show what it was and at this point what it should mean for that area of this hospital. And that's why we think at this point we need to set ourselves up like this and declare it a national memorial hospital. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179826	I'd like to thank my colleagues. We're moving on to the next debate. on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Marijana Balic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179827	Thank you very much, well-respected vice president of HS, respected secretary of state with a co-worker, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here, from the opening presentation of the Secretary of State, we had the opportunity to hear how and what he plans to edit and determine by the proposed bill so that I would not repeat myself but simply add several important elements, or say the following. The National Memorial Hospital Vukovar, of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia, will be a place to mark a special homeland pitet in which a memorial and educational activity with the purpose of promoting the value of the Homeland War is performed in addition to health activities. In this context, it is also necessary to take care of sustainability itself, particularly in a financial context. In this way, on the one hand, it would ensure the future of the very institution in which people will continue to be treated, and on the other hand, it would become a special hospital in the history of the Croatian people, which, by all its current actions, has earned it. I believe it is not particularly important to point out that Vukovar Hospital is the only health institution that we can safely say is deeply etched in the collective consciousness of the Croatian people. The hospital, as we have already heard in the exhibition of a colleague of Strenja, shared the fate of the city of Vukovar, ruthlessly destroyed by enemy missiles. No, I'm not sure there's an example of a hospital that lasted in the environment for almost 90 days as well as up to 700 missiles fell on it every day. In these conditions, doctors and staff at the Vukovar hospital have shown the highest possible level of courage, humanity, and patriotism. So allow me, from this very place, to give the workers of the Vukovar hospital the words of thanks for their immeasurable contribution to the righteous and defensive Homeland War because they were the ones who saved lives, treated, nursed wounded and sick, who provided all kinds of support. From morality, psychological to human, and it is doubtless that they have had an effect on the morals of defenders and civilians. The Vukovar hospital will forever be remembered for its exceptional heroism and the ability of all its employees. Following all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposed bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179828	Thank you. Dear colleague Zekanovic. He's not present. Dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh is not present. On behalf of the Independent Youth List, dear colleague Tomislav Panenic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179829	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament, Secretary of State. Of course, here I think that my colleagues before me have said the justifiable reasons why we should and should support a bill that should actually be more clear in its part, what my position is, to determine which ones are the benefits that we will have by declaring, in fact the hospitals of one national project in which the state will maximum support not only for the existence but also for the activities that the hospital has played in the war, which the hospital should have now and in peace and there is no dispute about it. What I would just point out, if we are talking about the well-being of doctors, medical staff, patients of Vukovar, the hospital that currently works, then we are talking about everyone expecting a solution to the situation, primarily a financial one that should improve then and the state of the hospital, the possibility of obtaining, equipping, building and providing services, and by actually raising the hospital to a much higher level and then I would not ask the Secretary of State now, in the case of a proposal of this law that will be adopted, I am sure that when you say that I have no additional costs from the state budget, then I have to ask myself justifiably what way will we achieve the objectives set out in the preamble are actually in the description of the situation and the desire to raise the standard of the Vukovar hospital? Because if their income is still only going to be from HZZO where there's a lot of bed filling in the hospital around 50%, there's always going to be a lack of financial resources to maintain the situation, then what Ines Strenja's colleague was saying about the possibility of service, modernising certain parts of the hospital will become a permanent problem. I know that the current situation in health care is not great, and we expect in this debate in some way that the Ministry's position and the government's position that the general situation will be resolved because the other counties and even the Vukovar-Srijem County remain the founders of a hospital after the adoption of this law, does not mean that it will significantly change the situation if we observe each hospital individually. The financial and expenditure obligations are actually here which have been discussed in the county assembly, here I don't know where Strenja's colleague received this data but the current financial minus is over 100 million kuna where last year some 40 million kunas of losses were shown which are very large amounts, one are obligations that may be paid but there are other obligations that they have so should take a total and that is the amount that scares everyone and I hope that here to another reading you will include this bill and model how you will financially ensure that it is not just the name of the hospital, that there is not only the intention and desire that is good, which we welcome but also that the operational part, the financial part being such that the engine that will actually show that the hospital that has fallen in the war can be an example of best practice in peace. This is expected by all citizens and Vukovar and Vukovar-Srijem County who need and want to have a hospital that can provide top-level services. Unfortunately, the problem with medical staff, ensuring all the conditions for their retention, to create the specializations needed there is a very difficult and crucial role of the state here must also be to show for example the Vukovar-Srijem County, the city of Vukovar and the hospital in Vukovar that one can create a quality centre that not only defends but anyone who primarily gravitys and the other comes to seek hospital service, so that everyone can get the best service. This will also reduce the pressure towards clinical centres in Zagreb or somewhere further that provide much more quality services and show that even small hospitals with quality specialization can provide services with modern devices that will not only be sought through HZZO-funded treatments but also that they can market-based revenues. If we look at it, you yourself stated that the structure of income over 80% is the source of HZZO then I am stressing that the issue of the limit you have set significantly limits the progress of any hospital but it will also limit the progress and the werewolf hospitals of whoever is its titler, whether county or in the future state time. Therefore, by giving such an honor to one hospital, it also requires a significant financial engagement to justify that there is no doubt that the bill came only for the sake of a pre-election campaign, strengthening certain positions but also that it is an actual intensification which will later be justified through the action but the citizens of Vukovar, Vukovar-Srijem County and hospital staff expect to feel the well-being immediately, to see soon. Therefore, if management is taken over, I hope that you have prepared plans to react quickly and show that this document is not only principled but also real and that it creates a new history of the Vukovar hospital and to the benefit of the entire Vukovar-Srijem County. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179830	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179831	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Secretary of State with an associate. Very briefly, so I didn't even plan to answer but I have a few questions that I would like here and a little bit of apostrophe, so here it is pointed out that we should take into account the memorial and educational importance of the hospital and pay particular attention to its sustainability, of course, which includes financial sustainability. And it is further said that due to its fiscal capacity, the county is unable to meet the obligations arising from the hospital's operations in due time and is currently struggling with major outstanding obligations, etc., etc. Therefore, this takeover would achieve a better efficiency in the processes of joint procurement and standardisation of the supply of medicinal products, medical and other materials. When we put aside this day and everything in the form of this memorial educational significance, pitet and everything that it meant in the defense of the city of Vukovar, and thus our country, I wonder why we don't do this for all the hospitals of the county who, if that's the solution to the problem? If we are to save something, provide better care and ultimately provide better health care for the citizens themselves and for them to be better, then I think that the strategy of working on further development of the healthcare system is that all hospitals are simply attached to the state, especially here in the case where we have within 20km of two general hospitals, Vinkovci, Vukovar, and in 40 there is a KBC. The goal of everything in my view should be better health care, that should be the goal. It's said here that they have covered 89% of HZMO's income, which means they're missing that 11% right now, so it's going to be okay if otherwise KBCs are great, they pay everything in time, they don't mind, there's no problem with funding because they're in state or not, I don't know. So to me, if this was done to help Vukovar-Srijem County since it has two county hospitals, I just hope that at least there's someone smart enough in that structure made specialist departments that don't match within 20km that are extremely expensive, do I not see the purpose of it, that 20km of something that goes inside Zagreb in one day, so it would be a little weird to have specialist offices that are the same minors and twice we pay all the same sisters, all the same administration, the same equipment, etc., and not the capacities filled, if they are then great and why we don't do it any further. If the goal was to establish this memorial educational importance, I can understand it, that the state's concern is a little higher and the office, but we must care for the basic part of the health story as much as possible, more efficient and more economic health care. And now I'm just afraid that other county congregations would not draw conclusions like it did on 28 May 2019. The Vukovar-Srijem County Assembly for some reasons that are also sentimental, but also financial, so that then the state and them must take over or do so by some key, it is not only clear to me. So the goal must be once again efficiency, the quality of providing health care, which is why hospitals exist to us and to reduce waiting lists, to get a better quality review, and that must be the purpose and purpose and purpose of all of these things that we do in health care. So I'm just curious further whether it's going to apply to the other county or if there's just a case here, especially if we have 20km, this 40km away KBC, and here another county hospital, then whether we're going to unite the County Vinkovci hospital with this hospital in a second step or not, here's a few questions I'd like to know what this is and says here that it's going to be as a means secured in Section 096, that's the division relating to the entire health ministry that has a number of other subdivisions. Of course, what is the main goal we will support this, but I would really like to go on and on to see the effects of citizens getting a better service, citizens within Vukovar-Srijem County and beyond to get a better, better quality, more economical service, and then it should be painted on all other counties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179832	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179833	Thank you very much. At first I will say that I welcome that the Croatian Veterans Hospital present in Vukovar becomes this law National Memorial Hospital Vukovar because the Vukovar Hospital deserves it, the Vukovar Hospital and today we see that it has become a symbol of the people who at the hospital during the greatest Serbian aggression essentially their doctors, the medical staff inside have all given in impossible conditions both to wounded defenders, civilians, and so to the aggressor soldiers. And it's a special and big story of their role in the Homeland War, and mostly now passing on to our children already at the hospital our eight-year-olds go all regularly, and of course all those who want to visit Vukovar, of course the hospital is where the most impressive, feelings left to see where people are and how they are treated. And once again, I would like to point out to all the doctors alive and those who are not among us medical personnel as heroes, Croatian heroes, heroes of the Homeland War and as examples that we are not medics, and especially to all those who are dealing with this call, I think we should mention these people. However, I will only say briefly here that it is good that the founding rights are transferred to the County hospitals in Vukovar and Croatian veterans to the Republic of Croatia, which should have been done long ago, this hospital has earned that status and therefore I will support this because I think it is minimally what we have to do. Of course the financial framework has been asked here, we'll all talk about what we're accomplishing. All that costs the hospital, everything costs Vukovar, everything has its price, I just look at how many people, kids get into the memorial hospital, here's gonna be almost memorial,... in Vukovar, the effort that people who teach, who talk about the hospital, means there's a huge cost and it can't all come down to the hospital and the town of Vukovar, so it's very important this financial framework. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The financial framework is because you simply need to thank the people who work in that hospital and who present everything to our students. It's all costing. It all has its price. I believe that the financial framework and debts of the hospital, so far the County Hospital of Vukovar and Croatian veterans that the state should urgently resuscitate it because apparently the owner and founder, the county had neither the strength, that is, the county itself is just a flow water heater full of rocks and probably the county that was intended for the Vukovar hospital did not leave. The proposal as I said we'll support it, it's pride, it's a symbol, it's with the Ovcara from the Water Tower that's now being restored to numerous and worse, and the memorial and place of the pie and the whole of Vukovar, but the hospital deserves what it deserves. I support it, but once again I say that it's a very important financial structure, so do you have a financial framework to solve the current problems at Vukovar Hospital? I didn't hear that framework, I hear it's huge costs, like in other hospitals in the Republic of Croatia, but when we talk about Vukovar, I think we should solve this problem because obviously the county had neither the will nor the power, the mayor having the power to speak because simple counties are the meaning of itself and the Vukovar hospital, now soon and the memorial hospital is evidence, evidence basically why the county needs to be abolished and in this case they're unnecessary, better that money went directly to hospitals rather than to have a flow boiler. I'd like to point out once again the same problem that my colleagues in Ines pointed out, and that's the problem of other hospitals, of course, that's this vet in Knin's hospital, and I don't think it's enough just to come in, so I support Vukovar, but Kninska is in big trouble. It is a hospital of veteran and general hospital in Knin of Croatian Pride. As a man who comes from these parts, it's the only hospital in that area, we know what Knin means. Knin is a city, here we celebrate the Day of Victory and the Day of Croatian Defence. However, this hospital has been forgotten, and here I am called the nurses who live away from Sinj or other parts, that they no longer have travel expenses. Therefore, we do not have the county of Sibenik-Knin wash hands of piatski, similar to the county, as the mayor of Vukovar. So they don't have enough power. There have been thematic sessions, however, I believe that under the emergency assistance of hospitals, here, I use this opportunity, the Knin hospital, it's a mess, don't let that hospital, just on Victory Day we come to Knin to Storm and paint ourselves in essence, and when it's over, for the storm to celebrate, to go and forget the city of Knin. It's the only hospital in Zagora, in the back, it can unload both the Sibenik and Split hospitals. Our veterans, she, at the service are with great denials and directors and medical staff and all unfortunately still, their denials, she still survives. So you simply have to invest, which we have bases for physical therapy where I've been giving amendments, but you don't, you don't have that feeling to finish because it's a veteran hospital, a general hospital of Croatian pride, therefore, I support what you've done, I'm giving you full support for the Vukovar hospital, but now I'm calling you, remember Knin and Knin Hospital, not just for the days of the Storm. I have to say and take advantage of this moment and warn them, I warn on the Committee on Veterans, everyone washes their hands, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, everyone washes their hands, the county, they don't care, they care that they lift up, they need to receive the more employees, to sleep, here, the state administration, to have the mayors of Pharaoh's power, to control the election processes, but here I ask you all once again, even here was the county session in Knin where no decision was made to switch to the state but simply all the hands of the piatian again repeat. It's just that I'm talking about what I've been connected to the city of Knin in which I've lived for 14 years, working as a member of the 4th Guard Brigade, right away from the Storm I stayed in Knin. It's my town, it's the city I'll always mention, and once again under these lights, obviously let's forget how these people live, it was the youngest city, at one point it was the most prospective city, and now it's happening that we don't have a doctor anymore. The County absolutely doesn't care, apart from painting the day of the Storm, I have to say this and finally find a solution to the financial framework for Vukovar Hospital. I support this law, however, that Vukovar hospital deserves the same thing, here, beyond the framework of this law, but I believe that Knin is also a very important city, a city of victory of Croatian soldiers over a large Serb occupation, just as the hero of the city, Vukovar, a winner, regardless of what the victim is, and the victim is the meaning of the Homeland War. Don't forget, the financial framework for solving the problem because it's not nice. It's not nice when medical personnel text me they don't have any travel expenses, from Sinj, Drnis to Knin. It's not a nice message. The mayor doesn't care, he has his county,... The representatives of the county of all, paintings are all ok, all fine, but these counties are a Croatian curse, unfortunately. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I wish it weren't like that, everything that's under the county to the ground was destroyed, except they're well controlled by party personnel we have countless examples of these and therefore I would ask you to finally and the Knin hospital becomes the owner of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179834	Thank you. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179835	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Bull, here's the information you asked about the Vukovar Hospital. In 2017, she did business with a loss of 22 million 4.00,000 kuna, in 2018 the loss was 46 million kuna 150 million. The total debt with the transferred and the present, at the end of 2018 was 158 million kuna, something a little bit has been resolved, something the SDP government has done a little bit of rehabilitating, but I would suggest that we go to one joint initiative if the representatives of the government don't put it in place that we submit an amendment that requires that existing commitments must be cancelled means the burden of the state budget, and then if we are already declaring one national, memorial hospital to then start healthy foundations from one zero and then we can realistically give what business not to be permanent. Whoever's to blame, we'll hear again that it's left or right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179836	Thank you. Come in, mate Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179837	I immediately sign that all expenses and losses are recovered because Vukovar deserves it as a memorial hospital, as pride, the Vukovar hospital is the pride of the Croatian people, the pride of the doctors who gave it, played a great role in difficult conditions, which helped as I said and agree to that. And that should be normal, I expected those millions that the county owners allowed to rise to that level in the first place. And I think it would be good for the financial framework to be zero, at least zero, if they didn't have those burdens, a memorial hospital in Vukovar. It's just that if we declare her not to squirm in debt and call that hospital and present her... in the best light and that these people in Vukovar continue to work on both doctors and doctors who will work downstairs and present to our children everything that has happened in the hospital and we must never forget it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I agree to what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179838	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179839	Thank you, Vice President. Among other things, you mentioned the Knin hospital and I appreciate your involvement and care for the Knin hospital but only one information here and for the sake of our citizens and us, the information from the principal herself, it is not true that there is no concern and that only in Knin is coming on August 5th, but also in October, the Knin hospital with regular funds received in particular from the state budget another million and 200 thousand kuna and from the County 300 thousand kuna. They're not that big of a asset but to be known with regulars that they've got more money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179840	Thank you, fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179841	I was saying that the owner of the county and hospital Croatian Pride, the General Veteran Hospital in Knin, and that he has little care, these 300 thousand kunas of County do not even mention, 70, over 70 million debts. I would once again ask as my colleague Panenic said about the Vukovar hospital that at last the Knin hospital, it deserves and the historical and strategic area is such, we do not have any hospitals in Zagora, we have homes of health that are in ruins, they mean a lot to veterans as well. Men of veterans who go there to praise both doctors and pawns. I'm sorry that the amendment hasn't been accepted, but we have a pool to finish for these people, for the benefit of it. However, that proposal was not accepted either. But it is not an important proposal now, but I believe that both Vukovar and Kninska Hospital of Croatian Pride should be put to zero at least. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179842	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179843	Thank you. Dear fellow Bull, you're absolutely right. I also participated in a session of the City Council in Knin where I pointed out that just on the example of the Knin hospital, the power of the Croatian state is seen. Both Knin and Vukovar are two cities that cannot die, two cities where life must continue. And especially if we're watching our General Veteran Hospital. We must also save the General Veteran Hospital because the General Hospital guarantees the development of life and the Veteran Hospital guarantees us the development of a living and healthy memory because it is meant for those who are responsible and who have invested fear in the Republic of Croatia and its defence with their organism, health and body, health and biology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179844	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179845	I agree that there is a hospital in Vukovar, and we must tell here a secretary who is in front of the ministry that a hospital with 17 million kuna where medical staff has no travel expenses, where the hospital of Croatian Pride, where there is a general and veterinary hospital, where the city that went well Knin, after the Storm and was one of the youngest cities now has a rapid fall but precisely because of this, means precisely because they do not have medical services because doctors go to hospitals, does not invest and the county does not want to solve this problem because the county is a problem in itself. And so I think that we should all go together, here we all go together, and mostly you from the ministry all make everything happen that both in Vukovar hospital and Knin to settle and debts at Kninska Hospital somewhere around 17 million in Vukovar much more, resuscitate, multiply that at least they start from scratch in those parts... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179846	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, not present. Dear colleague Djakic is not present. Final word on behalf of the promoter, the respected secretary of state, Mr. Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179847	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I had to say a few words in the end because I think that this discussion has gone a little bit like the one that wasn't the subject of this itself, this agenda point, and that was the National Memorial Hospital of Vukovar. Since there was a great discussion before this about the city of Vukovar and the pitet, etc., I would only start with one finding that the destruction of Vukovar is a unique example of destruction without strategic interest in the history of recent warfare in the world. And also a unique example of the destruction of a health institution such as the Vukovar hospital is also a unique example in the world, not only by destruction, but also by the fact that during this destruction, the hospital has been practically continuously working under immensely difficult conditions, but very successfully, according to the principles of the highest medical ethical and delontological standards. It's good, and you probably know that there is a museum in the Vukovar hospital today, and this name is memorial, meaning the memory of that hospital and that part of its history is something that should be remembered and regularly remembered in all our generations, and therefore this, this name is memorial, I would say, most importantly, because we will see that in some impossible conditions, however, an optimal result of the work of medical staff as a whole can be achieved. I'm saying it's a unique example in the world, we had a lot of destroyed hospital institutions in the Republic of Croatia during the Homeland War, I know two that were selectively destroyed, one hospital in Vukovar, and another hospital that was located across the street from the old military, which was the hospital in Gospić, they were selectively destroyed, bombed from cannons, hospitals in Vukovar from all possible artillery and other weapons. This very memorial aspect of the Vukovar hospital is extremely important, I would say that at this point it greatly exceeds that financial aspect of which we have all begun to catch ourselves here in some way because it shows really what was a unique example of the action of one health system in the homeland war, namely that we had a unique health system in the homeland war which has never been recorded in the history of war anywhere in the world, and even our examples served many countries for education so that in such circumstances and on such occasions we could develop, maintain and act one, I would say, fully functional quality health and one health system, we did not have a war that was aggressive, but we had a country war and a transition and our entire health system was truly unique. What I would point out is not all the hospitals that have been destroyed by Vukovar, Vukovar is just one and he must always remain as the National Memorial hospital precisely because of the regular renewal of memories of everything that this hospital in its history and recent history has passed. That is why this initiative was, I don't think there are any other particular reasons for us to call this hospital memorial, to move into the ownership of the Croatian state, and it has to move towards the ownership of the Croatian state because it guarantees its permanent existence, which is of great importance. On the other hand, if we worry about how the Vukovar hospital works now, then I can responsibly argue that it is one of the best equipped county hospitals in the Republic of Croatia that provides the entire population with the highest medical standard, that it has sufficient numbers and technical appliances, technical resources and sufficient personnel and that it is fantasticly doing its job. On the other hand, if you come to a Vukovar hospital or as a citizen, or as a visitor or as a man who wants to see all that expensive that can be seen there or as a professional, but at least I am now speaking my feelings, I feel at that hospital one special, special atmosphere, one particularly positive energy that exists between all these employees there and today, and that is exactly what is noticeable in relation to all our health institutions in the Republic, they are indeed leaving today a special, special sensibility, one special sensitivity, humanity, work, I would say, efficiency and desire to help a sick man as much as possible, precisely because of this, I would say, magnificent epies during the Homeland War. That's why I think that's the farthest thing, I'm deeply convinced, and I thank all the colleagues who discussed that you would support this proposal, and I think what I said was our main motive, at least for us at the Ministry of Health. As far as funding is concerned, believe me, I'm the president of the Lorran hospital board, it's a state-owned institution that doesn't make losses, so if it's necessary, I'll be at the highest stake in this hospital, and if it's necessary for Dr. Bitunac in Knin to try to find the methods and methods of financial sustainability of these of our county institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179848	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179849	Thank you very much. I'm just going to show myself in that part that we're off topic, I think we're unanimous here as far as the werewolf hospital is concerned, to be a memorial hospital, to be owned by the Republic, and that the state cares about it, so that's where we reached a consensus and that's the hospital above all the hospitals. The biggest victim, and when you said the biggest incentive for everyone to come there, the incentive regardless of whether they were professionals, were visitors, at that center of the museum, it's simply a fact and we're trying to support it, but we were talking about the Knin hospital only because it should also not forget that area, and you mentioned it at one point also by Director Bitunac and her struggle and the struggle of all employees who are currently very difficult as medical staff to cover the costs, I told you that they don't have enough for travel expenses, and they travel hundreds of miles a day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179850	Thank you. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179851	Thank you very much. Here, dear Secretary of State, I'm pleased to have you feel this atmosphere that is ruling there, and we as patients also share that view, but then I would ask you now to also find that solution. It's not just a question of a hospital in Vukovar that has been badly injured, but we see financial indicators show that it is still suffering because financial instability is the biggest obstacle to any development and one healthy action. If only we were the only ones talking about Vukovar Hospital and the Vinkovacka Hospital was on the front line of the defense, she also suffered very badly. The losses are over 100 million kunas and you're aware of that. He had a hospital in Pakrac, so it's not just enough to come in, to feel something, but to do something, and so far all the hospital's revenues depended practically on the source, one source and you yourself listed over 80% is that the HZZO source is the government together with the ministry of your determining practical limitations and ways to finance the hospital's activity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179852	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, and his associates for their explanations and for their answers. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179853	Proposal for a law on the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital Vukovar and the hospital of Croatian veterans to the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 809, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a law on the transfer of founding rights to the General County Hospital Vukovar and the Croatian Veterans Hospital to the Republic of Croatia is accepted. Secondly, all objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final proposal of the Law." Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 108 votes to reach the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179854	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, second reading, P.Z.E. Number 759. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172 in conjunction with Article 190. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. I would like the representative of the motion of the State Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Zeljko Kraljičko, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179855	Speaker subsequently turned on./... Croatian Parliament, Honorable Ms. Assembly MPs and gentlemen parliamentary representatives. The European Parliament and the Council of the EU adopted Regulation 2016/2031 on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants with the appropriate amendments to the Regulations and repealing the Council Directive itself. In this regard, the Ministry of Agriculture has developed a new Law on Plant Health, which ensures the implementation of Regulation 2016/2031 and establishes a national legislative framework in the field of plant health. The provisions of the Law on Plant Health and the provisions of Regulation No 2016/2031 shall, in particular, focus on effective protection of the Union against organisms harmful to plants, plant products and other objects which may be introduced in the Union area, in particular due to the globalisation of trade and climate change. The final proposal defines competent and expert bodies. As measures of conduct, new rules of harmful, descriptions of harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms, priority harmful organisms, not quarantine harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms of protected areas and non-regulated quarantine pests of the plant itself are defined. It is possible to prescribe stricter measures than those set out in the Regulation and, in that sense, the law provides that the Minister responsible for agricultural affairs may adopt regulations and orders in order to take measures to prevent, spread and control harmful organisms. It is possible to apply eradication measures to those harmful mechanisms which are considered to meet the conditions for listing the quarantine harmful organisms of the Union. The obligation to provide information to passengers and postal service users who import plants, plant products and other objects into the Union area which have not been prescribed under the applicable legislation shall be introduced. A new category of registers of specialised entities is being introduced. For specialised entities or plant agents, it is easier to come into the unique and transparent documentation, a uniform plant passport form, better protection as well as possible financial assistance in the detection and eradication of harmful organisms. It is possible for specialised entities to examine plants, plant products and other objects on their own, and to issue plant passports for them, which so far has not been the case under the applicable law on plant health. It wasn't as planned as just training. The training of specialised entities will be carried out by competent authorities. In relation to the text of the draft law proposal, certain observations and proposals have been incorporated in this final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, and we point out this in particular. Article 7 adds the items relating to the adoption of a solution at the request of specialised facilities by the Ministry of Agriculture, the power to issue plant passports for plants, plant products and other items transferred from the jurisdiction of the Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency to competent phytosanitary inspections. In the section relating to the granting of powers in other public authorities, Article 12 of the Ministry of Agriculture has also been added by the State Inspectorate as a body of the State Administration which may grant powers to other legal persons with public authority for the purposes of implementing the Regulations and the provisions of this Act. As regards the provisions on the entry into force of the law, Article 33 has been amended in a way that the law in question takes effect 8 days from the day of its publication in the People's Journal. I would also like to stress that, for the implementation of this law, additional financial resources in the state budget are provided at the position of the State Inspectorate in the part relating to the performance of operations in the work of the State Inspectorate, i.e. for the costs of analysis of inspection samples and employment in additional EUR 348,000. The final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, which includes most of the remarks and proposals highlighted in the framework first reading, is also included in the debate today. I would also like to mention here that the legislator also accepts the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives on the final draft, in Articles 29 and 32, namely the no-technical rules for transitional and final provisions. The application of the provisions of this law will also ensure better protection of the territory of the Republic of Croatia and thus better protection of EU territories against harmful organisms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179856	I thank the Secretary of State. We have a replica of colleague Josip Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with his associates. I am interested only in your opinion regarding this Article 12, which spoke about granting powers to other legal persons with public authority to be added to the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate as a body of state administration which can give authority to other legal persons. And now I'm interested in whether there will be no overlap or duplication of powers and jurisdiction if it comes to lowering certain public powers. For the same job?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179858	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Queen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179859	I'd like to thank you for asking Mr. Assembly Attorney. I would very clearly repeat here the very provision of Article 12, which is that we have the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture in part of the work and the jurisdiction of the State Inspectorate in part of the official controls. And in this part of the jurisdiction and tasks of official controls under the law as we have now prepared it is the competent State Inspectorate and there is no conflict.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179860	Thank you. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179861	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Once again, I welcome the Secretary of State with respect to his associates, few colleagues and colleagues. Regardless of the fact that we have elaborated this law in detail in our first reading and that there is not much change since the first reading, I would still like to repeat some things that are important to this law. Thus, the Law on Plant Health was passed in June 2005 and entered into force in 1.1.2006. This draft proposal for a Law on Plant Health transposes national legislation and EU Regulation 2016/2031 on protective measures against organisms harmful to plants and regulates the legal framework of national legislation in a part not prescribed by the provisions of the EU Regulation. 2016/2031 thus achieving a more effective implementation of plant health in the Republic of Croatia. The draft law regulates the area of plant health, measures to prevent, introduce and spread harmful organisms of plants, plant products and other objects which they contain by means of phytosanitary measures. This law defines the competent authorities in law enforcement, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture and the State Inspectorate, phytosanitary forest inspection, Croatian Agriculture and Food Agency and the Croatian Forest Institute. In exceptional cases, authorised border officials of the Republic of Croatia, customs officials, border police officers, and other objects in the border area of the Republic of Croatia may be authorised to carry out tasks and tasks in the field of plant health by other legal persons with public authority. New rules of harmful organisms such as quarantine harmful organisms, priority harmful organisms, not quarantine harmful organisms, quarantine harmful organisms of protected areas and unregulated quarantine pests of plants are defined. It is possible to prescribe stricter measures than those set out in the EU Regulation. 2016/2031 where the minister is responsible for agriculture may adopt rules with a view to phytosanitary protection, taking into account that these measures do not result in a prohibition or restriction of the introduction of plants into the Union area. Phytosanitary measures may also apply to those harmful organisms which are considered to be eligible for inclusion in the list of Union quarantine harmful organisms. The obligation to provide information to passengers and postal service users entering the Union of plants, plant products and other objects which have not been prescribed under the applicable legislation create legal frameworks for the upgrade of the register of specialised entities, which are specialised entities which move plants, plant products and other objects within the Union which are authorised to issue plant passports which have phytosanitary certificates which lay down codes for wood material, packaging and other. For specialised entities, plant owners are also relieved to come in more unique and transparent documentation, to unify... plant passports, better protection as well as possible financial assistance in the detection and... harmful organisms. One of the largest newspapers for a specialised plant-owner, which provides, among other things, the possibility for specialised entities to examine plants, plant products and other objects on their own, and for them to issue plant passports which have not been the case under the applicable Law on Plant Health so far. As already stated by the State Secretary in its opening statement in relation to the text of the draft draft law, this Final Proposal for the Law on Plant Health has also been incorporated into certain observations and proposals and discussions from the Assembly, in Article 7 it was added to the item relating to the adoption of a solution on the protection of a specialised entity by the Ministry of Agriculture, the power to issue plant passports for plants, plant products and other items have been transferred to the jurisdiction of the Phytosanitary Inspection. This Article 12, which I have just commented on in the section relating to the granting of powers to other legal persons with public authority with the Ministry of Agriculture, has also been added by the State Inspectorate as a body of the state administration, which can give authority to other legal persons and public authorities, with public powers for the purposes of implementing the Regulations, and the provisions of this law, it is good because this is about our specificities and it is certain that we must respect our specificities that are different from the EU. In order to implement this law, additional resources should be provided in the state budget for the performance of the work of the State Inspectorate, which shall take effect 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal when the Law on Plant Health ceases to apply, and the rules should be adopted within 6 months or a year and I would like to finally say that the HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179862	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS esteemed colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179863	I thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, very briefly, this is, this is, this chamber's little atmosphere, in fact, just to say that the Club of the CNS will support the Final Proposal of the Law on Plant Health, as soon as possible, lay down here certain tasks and regulations that are or are defined by the professional and competent bodies for the implementation of this law which, in its final essence, provides us with quality, indirect health care, but above all we are talking about plant protection here, the protection of our plants, I will only mention this time how much has been written about the disease that happened, which attacked our forests, especially at Marjana i.e. A submarine that may not be directly related to this, but only to get one idea, which means if we don't have this, then we must be aware, clearly, that there are certain diseases that can be, plants that can and can be transmitted and that this should be arranged and absolutely done with this matter as regards the agencies, state inspectorates, what is the task of the Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Agricultural Food Agency as I said, the Forest Institute, etc., from plant passports and all that is necessary to ensure its, its plant world. I think it is crucial and absolute to define both inspection controls and administrations, which are the powers of competent inspectors, customs, etc., etc. Do I think that we also need to know normally what we're fighting from and new concepts such as new lists of harmful organisms such as quarantine harmful organisms, priority pests, etc. are being introduced, so I think that something that will certainly help to preserve our plant, entire fundus, and I also think that it is important that this also enables one application of phytosanitary measures actually to talk about which measures can also be applied to these harmful organisms. Including, the HNS Club will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179864	I thank my esteemed colleague. My colleague Gordan Maras is gone. I hereby conclude the debate, thank you once again to the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Kraljekko and his associates, on the grounds of the final draft of the law, we will vote on this point once the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179865	Final proposal of the Law on Plant Health, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 759, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, the amendment has been tabled by the Legislative Committee adopted by the applicant and becomes an integral part of the final proposal of the Law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Plant Health. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 107 votes for and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Plant Health.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179866	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final bill on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z. No. 666. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. I would like to ask the representative of Mr. Željko Plazonić, the Honorable State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, to give us the final, explanation of the final draft of the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179867	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, distinguished parliamentary representatives, so this legislative proposal ensures the implementation of Directive 2018/350 amending the Directive of 2001. The European Parliament and the Council on the risk assessment of genetically modified organisms for the environment shall be determined by the competent authorities, the tasks of the competent authorities, the treatment of genetically modified organisms, as well as products containing or consisting in part of GMOs, then limited use of GMOs, shall be governed by the approval and use of medicinal products, means medical products consisting of GMOs or containing some forms of genetically modified forms or combinations. The intentional introduction of GMOs into the environment for the purpose of different placing on the market, limiting or prohibiting GMOs, placing GMOs and products containing or consisting of or originating from GMOs on the market, handling, transport, packaging, waste management resulting from the use of GMOs, and responsibility for the damage caused by the illicit use of GMOs and official controls. The text of the final draft law strengthens provisions relating to the obligation to inform the public through the network pages of the state administration body in the area of limited use of GMOs, and the introduction of GMOs into the environment or placing them on the market, and includes representatives of civil society in the GMOs Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179868	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179869	Here's to the point, the respected GMO secretaries are always the same story, the new regulation, in fact I'm going to propose one amendment as I have so far given the Law on complete ban on importing and placing on the market for all GMOs or groups of GMOs in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia except for medical purposes, we know that the Republic of Croatia is lagging behind, we have more than 400 products today on the shelves of GMOs that our citizens are going to, 700 000 square, square hectares, 700 000 hectares of unprocessed surfaces, we have all the conditions for organic production, promotion of tourism, however obviously interest groups are too strong that we have to import their GMOs and destroy our domestic production, move our people out, 2/3 of Croatia are empty, and these are still our children the test rabbits of GMO producers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179870	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179871	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed State Secretary with an associate. I have to ask you again very clearly, given the frequent manipulations and wrongly unnecessary public harassment about the adverse impact of GMOs on human health, do you find that information somewhere in professional literature? I am not, that somewhere has been proven that GMOs are harmful to human health and whether you also have GMO seeds sown in Croatia. I didn't find any information that was overshadowed, so I was wondering if you knew anything about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179872	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179873	Thank you very much for asking. I'll answer you with one piece of information from the World Health Organization. The country in Europe that has the most planted cultures with GMOs is Spain. Spain also has the world's largest production of prosciuttos and is the world's largest exporter of prosciuttos. And now regardless of what they have the largest surfaces planted with GMOs, Spain has the longest life expectancy in Europe of 83.4 years. They're in first place. Well, I think that data itself speaks for itself enough about the extreme harmfulness of genetically modified forms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179874	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179875	Okay, here, thank you very much. Here I would just short, I won't be long, it's clear, my position is that clear, I'm a link, mostly companies as strong as Monsanto who prevailed with seeds and also herbicides and pesticides, I've recently given a law that is linked exclusively to GMO production and those strong multinational companies that destroy domestic seeds, domestic producers. We think that the state is neat, that we should have a seed bank, domestic seed, no more of that pomiladore or tomatoes, pomador, you're from Dalmatia that used to smell when you open it, now that you buy the Italian pomidore, you can keep it on the closet for two years and after two years it's exactly the same. So much for the health and promotion of domestic production. But I do know that you're going to be lobbying and reading some data. However, I am saddened when you do not see the link between glyphosate, GMO production, Monsanta and those companies that produced this, there, which use this substance in spraying, which use this substance mainly because research, say and the World Health Organization has carried out, indicated that glyphosate is very dangerous, that it is connected with GMOs, the production of GMOs. Well, that's quite clear, I mean, look, so we have a agriculture minister who says she's not having a problem with glyphosate and Austria in the EU has banned what we're going to do now. The fact that when you sow it with a cidocor, where the glyphosate is, that's what we're going to say by domestic even though they have other names, when under the grass it grows yellow, it's death, meaning when a number of people in America sue the Monsanto company, they get disputes about the disease. You have a case recently here in the media was ours where the man was a porter, because he worked at school and there he sprayed the grass with their product, a man got sick regardless of all the protection, severe diseases have carcinogens. We've had research, we've got friends in Europe and signatures, petitions, even the EU debate on it but the link between glyphosate and it's been conducted even in laboratories testing where 40% of us have glyphosate which is essentially that seed is resistant. And you know very well that GMOs have flooded our market, are neither marked nor controlled, nor are crops controlled or cared for. I think it takes a much wider and more serious debate because the inconclusiveness of the minister who says that glyphosate is no danger and we know that they are opposed and beekeepers to glyphosate because the bees are guessing. So we have one huge problem. Of course it's necessary for herbicides to have that kind of production today. However, the substance proven by the World Health Organization warns that severe diseases are carcinogenic, carcinoma, and the rest of glyphosate. You see, everything is nice in Croatia. In Spain, however, this lipo blooms, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia, 700 thousand hectares of unprocessed land. Unfortunately, these Spanish and Hungarians will buy you now within the EU our agricultural land because 700 thousand hectares means unprocessed and in 2020, foreign legal and physical persons can buy this land and without a problem they will also treat it with glyphosate, i.e. Herbicides, which is one of them, consist of glyphosate. GMO products have flooded our market, they are essentially destroying domestic organic production. And that's for a broader and more serious debate, and that's why I consider everything except medical purposes that needs to be banned. Only it's for medical purposes. Now you're going to say that GMOs have occurred a long time ago, not that gentlemen, you know what this is about, that's what I'm talking about, I think this amendment is a minimum of what I can give to support you. I believe you will finally support this amendment of mine because I really don't want the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be test mice, mostly children. It's the same thing to you that we're insecure, how much we prescribe these regulations ourselves. You have a teleoperate case that sets up base stations wherever they think of the Republic of Croatia unrelated to this topic, they cannot do so in other EU countries. We will become the main market of these products, but in us everything is somehow in gloves. You remembered Spain, you also come from my neighborhoods, you have me from your aide, Vrlika near Sinj, I wanted to tell you that this is how we have the same case, an example of why we Croats behave in our free country, so we have problems that we have destroyed our livestock production, why, because we will favor some investor to have blue milk produced in Serbia. We have Milkar Sinj just a coupon on Kukuzovac and they got the address on Kukuzovac importing us my cow lipo milk, but the milk produced in the Republic of Serbia and the Serbian Republic. But there's no milk. So in this case. Why are we doing everything against our peasant? Your people, you know that yours is all empty where you've been, maybe you remember in the alcoon when you get up in Vrlika, it's all empty, no cattle, no more old grandmothers, and they're a little bit more dominoes, no more of them on the blue towel that they were selling, I'm with my grandmother selling, so I'm raised, there's no more of those people. You have these GMO products that are purchased in chains produced, crosses I don't know which, that's what you'd like to say, and then the flash comes, but the other way around, we've driven the villages to the markets, now they, now those import lobbies that are mostly treated with glyphosate, the surface, of course, is contaminated, contaminated by that glyphosate, and I'm not going to talk about it, I'm not just gonna talk about it, di soya shotgun, it's di pork. We could talk about that for two days. About the import of pork we could do for two days. We have Dalmatian prosciutto, and they're pigs, we say pig in Sinj. No pigs. You remember from our ends, go now at the time of this, pork when and in us when you say slaughter, then there was plenty, but no one I know all, I live downstairs, you are down very rarely, you went to Zagreb, it is your right, but I plan to stay, live and die and believe that my drawer, I believe, I hope and all the young people remain in those parts. Empty everything. It's all empty. Here's to this kind of policy. You remembered Spain and read to me about Spain. Have you been to the Sinj field? Because of these products that we import from Spain, because of those products that we import from Spain, there are no people, empty everything. Well, of course what, you know, Spanish produce longer alive. Well, more healthy is she pomidora or tomato, we say pomidora homework that we have preserved seeds than this one I repeat for two years when you buy it imported from Italy i.e. Leave it on the table after two years, it's exactly the same. Is that a normal process of poisoning? I'm not an expert, I know as a domestic man because I live that life. Do we have a seed bank maybe our old ones, if it sells, if it promotes, if it encourages or encourages these Spanish products of GMOs? You promote them, you promote them, you wave to them, and of course you have to be lobbyists, you have to protect them. However, once again, Croatia has a lot of ecologically preserved agricultural land to develop domestic eco-production, and we are a tourist branch from unfortunately more of these tomatoes from Italy, or I don't know which products from Spain are sold during tourism in the Republic of Croatia than our own domestic ones. It's all said. Everything is said, so we don't protect our domestic producers, we didn't manage our incentives well, we protect the big players, we promote GMO products, we praise them, even here because my Croatian government, mine, you are my authority, no matter what I am opposition. You boast under the Croatian flag of Spanish products, and my field of Sinjsko in weeds. It's not irrigated, we don't have products, there's no livestock, there's no people, there's no life, there's no pay, there's nothing, and you say in the Spanish product. Whose product? Well, I prefer my product down from my people than this all together, so you're missing it. You're not proud of that regulation. Here's the regulation. We ban the import of GMO products, encourage domestic organic production, invest in the survival of people in these areas, through tourism, this is for a wider discussion of my people, so we don't have pigs anymore, we say pigs. We only have prosciuttos that are in Dalmatia, you see, when, when the freezer passes through Dalmatia, they dry to 100,000 tonnes from Hungary through Serbia, I have no idea where they are from and how they are fed, they will be with this soybean shotgun contaminated, contaminated by a very harmful gliphosate compound and affecting the health of our people. Is that my Dalmatian prosciutto? Is that a prosciutto? No, it's not. Why? Because we don't, and when I was threatened with the Austrians fighting hard, as well as what debate was in the EU, the Monsant lobbyists said that glyphosate is a date that is needed, which saves everyone. Well, when I see it spilling the lawn with that glyphosate, it doesn't solve the grass at all. And that's why you're gonna sow something, some culture, a product, and it's gonna be healthy. Of course it's contaminated, of course. And that's why I'm giving the amendment, and I'm going to tell you that we have to encourage exclusively and only respected colleagues and colleagues of domestic production. Without domestic production, organic production we are a tourist country that is an additional value, an additional value, we, with this ban that I propose all the time, do not want to be anyone's trying rabbits or try to praise other people's products. So we can't sell the apple domestically, the man has to sit her down and throw her down in the Zadar hinterland. He can't sell our apple, and you're waving Spanish here, look what he says, I don't know what the reason is. We don't encourage anything that's domestic, so it kills me when I see GMO products, sides that are sold in our centers. We must encourage domestic production to foreign markets, to export them, to export them quality, health, tradition, domestic product. Of course it's hard to control that process now, but if we have dangerous compounds, if we're connected to GMO manufacturers with the production of glyphosate that's dangerous, very dangerous. For the Minister of Agriculture, it's not dangerous. For Austria, in the EU, people in parliament were huge debates, in the EU. It is even considered to be completely forbidden in 2023. Well, in Croatia, it's great, but in Croatia, it's just that you can't drink. ... Therefore, once again in good faith I propose this amendment, I am prepared, if you accept this amendment, to accept this law so that I do not turn out to be destructive, so that in this case I do not turn out to be a man who is destructive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm ready if you accept this amendment, vote for this law. Right now, we're all voting. But you won't because you can't. Here, I give it to you, you give this amendment on behalf of the government, you don't need my name. Let's protect our domestic production, this is for a wide discussion, I can't talk about this, this is broad, with this being from soy to anything that affects our people's health, which threatens the production of our pigsty, all those stories. Why do we always wave with foreign products when I see that here... with French, with these Spanish products, I mean it's a disaster. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, people are... Live here and live on home-made food, on the home-scene. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You all love it when you come to your neighborhoods on your home set, you all love your homemade lamb. You all like your homemade lamb when you come back, you don't wave French, Spanish products, but you all go around... It's okay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's how everybody likes home-scenes. You can act here, laugh, what. I know there, it's a campaign, there's no lambs then, I've said that a hundred times so you don't repeat it now. So we promote domestic, GMO products that force Monsanto and large companies, even Bayer that have included these pharmaceuticals which their herbicides, pesticides, their products sell to treat our land and thus contaminating. That should be banned for human health. If it's Austria and the connection is the same. However, since this is the case, but as far as medical purposes are concerned, I would not really as far as medical purposes are concerned, the use of GMO products would indeed give it to decide the council and the profession on what is needed for human health and human treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179876	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary, Mr. Plazonic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179877	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. For the sake of the public, I must say a few words that these misinformations, which is a respected parliamentary representative, would not leave a negative perception of what we talked about today, which is neither relevant to scientific nor any other criteria. First of all, let me just say, gliphosphate is one story, GMOs are another story. In principle, it has no direct relationship with each other, and even some GMOs do not have to use gliphosphate either as herbicide or as pesticide. That's what's first and what's important to know. As regards official controls in the area of GMOs, GMOs, seeds and green masses from 2007 to 2019, the national monitoring of the presence of GMOs in food shall be carried out. So he's having a good time. In 2019, this will be said in this year as from 1.4. by the sanitary inspection of the Ministry of Health and from 1.4.2019 by the sanitary inspection at the State Inspectorate in a total of 148 food causes. For the purposes of monitoring GMOs in food 2019, 141 samples of food are sampled, namely soya-based products, meat products, food supplements, wheat products, confectionery products, rice and rice products, papaya, and for the purposes of official border controls, 7 food samples, rice, wheat, corn, container products, etc. All samples were negative for the presence of GMOs. Currently, the last phase of monitoring was carried out in 2019 and another 30 samples of food for testing were excluded. The monitoring results in 2019 will be published by 31 March 2020. As regards the monitoring of GMOs in semen and green matter in 2019, the agricultural inspection for the purpose of testing the presence of GMOs in seed and reproductive material caused 30 samples of seed, 2 samples of seed sugar tail, 16 samples of seed corn, 6 samples of soybean soybean, 4 samples of seed oil rape and 2 samples of seed wheat, that it carried out 6 inspections in the area of seed production and placing on the market of the Republic of Croatia. All samples are in accordance with our legal regulations. At the level of primary plant production, and for the purpose of examining the presence of GMOs, corn, soybeans, rape oil, she carried out 50 inspections, took 50 samples of green weight of 3 types of agricultural cultures, 12 samples of the green weight of the agricultural culture of corn, 30 samples of the green mass of the soybean agricultural culture and 8 samples of the green mass of the agricultural crop, and all the samples were in accordance with our legal regulations. We are currently only one GM corn under the name MON-810 approved for cultivation on the entire Europe market. That part, that type of GMO corn doesn't need for its.../incomprehensible/... gliphosphate, it doesn't need it. The territory of the Republic of Croatia shall be exempt from the possible cultivation of that maize, in accordance with the provisions of the Annex to the implementation of the European Commission decision adjusting the geographical area of authorisation for the cultivation of genetically modified maize. This is therefore a scientific, legal legitimately proven situation on the market and on the farming of genetically modified organisms. What I said about Spain should not be abused by my example or misrepresented. I just gave an example that the country that has the most culture of genetically modified crops has the best prosciuttos in the world whether you from Drnis, Vrlika, Sinja admitted or not to admit it is true, is the biggest exporter and has the longest lifetime of 83.4 years. We have 78 years for comparison for many, many reasons, but at least because of genetically modified forms in our diet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179878	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179879	Thank you very much. You shouldn't have apologized so much. Yes, you waved, you waved as much as you live, as many products and most used in Spain, I'm not interested in it, I'm interested in protecting domestic producers and prohibiting the import and transport and trade of GMO products from the outside. That's my goal. And that can open a discussion of scientific, like this, but the fact is that we don't have enough production to import from Italy, Spanish food products. 3 billion euros are increasing imports of food products, as tourism grows within us, food products grow. Therefore, you have found yourself here to justify yourself, you don't have to justify yourself to me, but you don't need to promote GMO products, and you don't need to make it possible for them by law to do so, but to protect our people from staying in these areas and to keep products and to deal with production as they have always been with the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179880	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Križanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179881	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, we've made ourselves clear as a country of GMO free as far as breeding is concerned. And that's what we keep saying, and that's what we have to tell people very clearly so that there's no confusion. I'm very glad that you've read all these findings of our inspections, and these inspections need to work day and night on it just because our public doesn't want the public to be terrified, they're in fear of big eyes, which are the kind of people who tell people things that they don't need to hear and fear everything and everything. So it's a good thing you've read us all these tests here, and I've got them of all the inspections, so we haven't found any GMO samples in any of the samples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179882	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179883	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly. With this final proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms, we are in fact harmonising provisions regarding the authorisation of the obligation of official national reference laboratories. The criteria for the inclusion of prison systems of limited use of GMOs at risk levels and standards for prison systems and prevention measures and other security measures will be developed. Therefore, the risk assessment system for the introduction of GMOs into the environment will be improved, the procedures for the application of the first placing on the market of GMOs will be developed, of course, and a legal basis will be created for the adoption of implementing acts necessary for the restriction and prohibition of GMOs, provisions will be laid down in relation to the clinical investigation of medicinal products, therefore, and must meet the requirement of deliberate introduction of GMOs into the environment or provisions on limited use of GMOs. An obligation will be introduced to establish a written process of traceability of GMOs and products consisting of or content of GMOs or a combination of GMOs on the Republic of Croatia market, as well as obligations to mark those products, so on and so forth. and so the jurisdiction of inspection bodies means the meaning and system of this law if you notice it is a restriction, monitoring, labelling, surveillance, infringement provisions all in order to make food as high as possible, or as high-quality medically correct medicines and anything that can be used today, which may or unfortunately be used by GMOs today. So this raises quality to one higher level, control and all that really matters is that we eat as healthy food as possible and not because we already want to, we know, but because it becomes European standards on the basis of which we do this. So the HNS club will, of course, accept all of this we've heard before, it's better or less to ignore, and with these laws, we're raising standards of healthy food and medicine above all, and we're doing what's in the interest of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179884	Thank you. There's no esteemed fellow Squeakyballs. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179885	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed state secretary with a co-worker. We are ahead of us with the proposal for a law on GMOs, which is in line with the new acquis of the EU and sets out the legal, official and inspection aspect of business with GMOs. In GMO we discussed in previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament within the parent working body of the Health Committee and the Committee on Agriculture. The analysis of the applicable GMO law found that this law does not constitute an appropriate regulatory framework for the implementation of European legislation in the field of the introduction of GMOs into the environment or for the placing on the market of GMOs and products containing GMOs. In order to simplify the overall GMO authorisation process, it is necessary to coordinate the collection of information among all stakeholders in the EU GMO authorisation process and thus also in the Republic of Croatia. The application and use of GMOs for scientific research in the light of the limited use of GMOs in closed systems of procedures for the purpose of introducing GMOs into the environment, shall be developed for the purposes of the different marketing authorisation of medicinal products containing or consisting of GMOs, marketing procedures, restrictions and prohibitions of cultivation and traceability, labelling, handling, transport and packaging of GMOs and liability for the use of GMOs. The provisions concerning the authorisation of official national reference laboratories for GMOs will be harmonised with Regulation (EU) 2017/625 in such a way as to extend the period of authorisation from two to four years. The criteria for the inclusion of closed systems of limited use of GMOs in hazard levels, prevention measures, modes and handling and other conditions for war in closed systems of limited use of GMOs will also be developed. The risk assessment system will be improved when GMOs are introduced into the environment, the assessment mechanism will be created for both short and long-term effects of GMOs on the environment, human health, animals and plants. The procedures will also be developed for the application of the first GMO market to both the Republic of Croatia and the neighbouring country, both in the EU and the Republic of Croatia. In addition, a legal basis will be established for the adoption of implementing acts and necessary for the restriction and prohibition of GMOs, provisions concerning clinical trials of medicinal products, advanced therapy medicinal products consisting of GMOs or containing GMOs or a combination of GMOs. The obligation to establish a written follow-up procedure for the GMO market on the Republic of Croatia will be introduced, the responsibilities of responsible inspection bodies for carrying out official controls or inspections in the area of GMOs on the market of the Republic of Croatia will be further developed. In addition, infringement provisions will be developed for both legal and natural persons. After the intervention of my colleague Bulja, I must say a few personal observations although this is a club on behalf of the club of representatives, so it is important to say that the Republic of Croatia as a Member State of the EU has taken over the rights and obligations that we need to respect if we want to be responsible and full member of the EU. In doing so, protect the interests that the Republic of Croatia represents regarding the theme of GMOs. I would like to remind you that the provisions of all Croatian counties which have declared their bodies free of GMOs confirm the direction of the Republic of Croatia as a GMO free state. I would like to remind you that it is certain that we are against the cultivation of GMOs throughout the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the position of all these counties. Regardless of this, the adoption of this law raises great public interest and legitimate doubts about the possibility of preventing the impact of globalisation, in particular the single European market on the preservation of state sovereignty in relation to the introduction of GMOs into the Republic of Croatia in the form of seeds and bans on the cultivation of the same, and I want to be energetic, resolutional, because the very thought of experimental fields and in controlled conditions, if the seed gets out of control, can result in consequences. Croatia is a small country and therefore, as regards the introduction of any GMO seed, even for experiments and in the strictest conditions, against. Therefore, take all measures to protect against the sowing of GMOs as well as measures to severely punish the offender. On the other hand, according to the already mentioned above, the Republic of Croatia is a member of the EU market, a single EU market. It has therefore assumed rights and obligations that are impossible to prohibit, importing meat from EU-fed GMOs. It's not imports, it's imports, it's not imports, it's input and there's no border control but it's free passage. Therefore, it would not be correct or lawful to ban our farmers from GMOs food for animals that are using their colleagues in the EU uninterruptedly because it is much cheaper. With such a ban, our cattleman, along with all other benefits used by EU farmers, would be additionally uncompetitive in the EU market. It is therefore extremely important to encourage all possible ways and GMOs of free production by modeling other EU members. Furthermore, further make it clear that the labelling and declaration of food products, as well as GMOs and GMOs, are subject to strict control of the implementation of those products. In this case, consumer choice. Finally, once again, I want to say very clearly and firmly, not to raise GMOs, not even for experiments, but to feed animals to make declarations and markings binding. The HDZ Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179886	Thank you. A colleague of Lovrinović, a colleague of Maras, is not present. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Plazonic, and my associates for the reasons of the final bill. We'll vote on this law when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, before we move to a declaration on the amendments, I would like to report that we will discuss the appointment and resolution point after the appointment date. We move to amendments, to the Final Proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z. No. 666, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I would like the Secretary of State, Mr. Zeljko Plazonic, to point out the amendment of the respected representative Mira Bulj. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179887	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice President of HS, colleagues and fellow MPs. It's started, yeah. We do not accept the amendment of our parliamentary representative Mira Bulj. Namely, in accordance with Art. 22 EU Directive 2001/18 on the introduction into the environment of GMOs cannot prohibit GMOs authorised in accordance with the provisions of this Directive. Thus, the Republic of Croatia cannot accept the proposal of a parliamentary representative because the provisions of this law will establish a system of enhanced controls on the one hand, and on the other hand, the mechanism of restricting and prohibiting GMO cultivation in accordance with EU and its legislation and provisions of the EU's operating contract.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179888	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179889	Thank you very much. I hope so, and I have suggested that we protect our domestic production from GMOs, and I have asked this amendment for the public to completely prohibit cultivation, import, market for all GMOs or GMO groups in the entire Republic of Croatia except for medical purposes. I told you this mainly because Croatia has huge potential to produce organic food, 700,000 hectares are unprocessed, agricultural clean environment, and you continue to promote GMO foreign products. That is why our young people are leaving, because of the target of 2020, they will be able to sell agricultural land to foreign legal and physical persons while Croatians will not be able to sell natural and legal persons to the Republic of Hungary. So don't just push foreign GMO products, don't make our children taste rabbits, we don't deserve it. This people deserve two-thirds of Croatia is empty, that these 700,000 hectares of land are processed, to survive in these areas. We are a tourist country to place these domestic products through tourism on the market. Unfortunately for us, everything is the other way around, 700,000 acres of land is under the weeds of agriculture, under the weeds, because of promotion, because of lobbying for GMO products, it's a fact and everyone knows it. No more homemade pomadors, no more pork domestics, imports from Hungary, from the Netherlands, who were treated as we said who knows what to feed those pigs with. Therefore, accept this amendment by fellow MPs, I will vote for it if you accept this amendment. And don't let our cup be the test rabbits of the interest groups, and obviously the ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179890	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Are you asking for a vote? Thank you very much. [[Intruder Bull: Yes, mandatory.]] I thank Secretary of State Plazonic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179891	Final proposal of the Law on genetically modified organisms, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 666, the promoter is the Government, the debate is closed, the amendment was submitted by MP Miro Bulj. We agreed on the amendment earlier in the session. We will now vote on an amendment which the motionary does not accept. That's one amendment. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so I am voting on the Final Proposal for the Law on genetically modified organisms. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 96, 3 abstentions and 7 against the passed Law on genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179892	Now we move on to Selection and appointment resolution. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appointment and Administrative Affairs, a respected colleague, Ante Sanader, to explain the motion for a decision. Here you go, Mr. Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179893	Thank you, Vice President. On the basis of Art. Paragraph 105.1 of the subst. 1st and 3rd and Art. 161st century 1st and Article 1st of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European The Rules of Procedure of the HS Committee on Selection and Design shall propose a decision on the resolution of the members of the SS Defence Committee. A member of the Defence Committee, Ana Komarić Devčić, is proposed on a personal request. It is proposed that the Vice-President of the HS Economic Committee, Dr. [[Intruder Brkić: Give it all.]] Damir Tomic, and Sasa Djujic, vice-president of the HS Economic Committee, is proposed. It is resolved, a member of the HS Economic Committee Sasa Djujic is proposed. A member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of HS Drazen Barisic is proposed and Drazen Srpak is proposed as a member of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities of HS. A member of the Committee for Family, Youth and Sports of HS, Ana Komaric Devčić, is proposed on a personal request. The resolution of the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS, Sabine Glasovac, is proposed and is proposed for the Vice-President of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS. Damir Tomic. For members of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of HS, Sabina Glasovac and Dr. Goran Marić, as on 10 July 2019, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS ceased to act as Dr. Marija Alfirev, and on 1 December 2019, a member of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of HS, ceased to act as Sunchana Glavak because of the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed to the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, Dr. Goran Maric, because on 1 December 2019, the task of the Information, Information and Media Committee of HS ceased to behave as Suncana Glavak because of the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed to be a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of HS Arsen Bauk, as on 10 July 2019, a member of the Committee on Gender Equality of the HS ceased to act as a Member of the Committee on Gender Equality. Marija Alfirev, due to the termination of the parliamentary term. It is proposed that the deputy member of the HS delegation be resolved in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European initiative of Stjepan Curaj, and that as a deputy member of the HS delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative, Drazen Srpak is proposed to be a member of the HS delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European Initiative, Stjepan Čuraj is proposed to act as a member of the HS delegation in the parliamentary dimension of the Central European initiative due to the termination of the parliamentary term of office. It is proposed that the head of the Office of the President of HS Daniel Glumcic be resolved. This Decision will be published in the National Journal of 30 December 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179894	I thank the Honorable Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Sanader. I'm opening a debate. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on these proposals when the conditions are met. Dear colleague and colleague, we have exhausted all the agenda points scheduled for today. We continue to work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the agenda Final draft law on the validation of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the EU and its Member States on the one hand and Japan on the other hand, second reading, P.Z. No. 774. At 11.15 we will have a club stand, and at 12 o'clock we will have a vote on the points of discussion. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the day. Session interrupted at 18.26 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-12-12-0.u179895	We are now going to choose, appoint and resolve, the proposing Committee on Selection, designation and administrative affairs, the debate is closed. Now we move to a vote on 9 decisions proposed by the Committee on Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, are you agreeing to vote unitedly or will we vote individually? So can we unite? All right. Then I am voting on the draft decisions of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs, which you have received in writing, please vote. I find that most votes, 105 for, or unanimously, 105 for the decision-making and decision-making proposed by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. We've reached the end of the 15th session with these esteemed colleagues and colleagues, and I'm closing it now. I announce that the new 16th session will begin on 15 January 2020, and I call for 15 minutes at the appropriate home in the rooms until. Thank you, Merry Christmas and New Year. SESSION FINISHED AT 13:33 A.M.
