ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177789	Dear colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon. I warmly welcome you. Before we begin the debate on the announced item, I would like to inform you of the work plan for today. We'll have a statement on the amendments at 12 o'clock, and we'll have a vote on the points discussed at 12 o'clock and 15 minutes. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on the Power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate individual issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament, second reading, P.Z. No. 662; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 66(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172. in conjunction with Art. 190. The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I'd like a representative of the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, Mr. Darko Nekic to give us an additional explanation of the final bill. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177790	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. As it is said, you have before you a draft final proposal of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate individual issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament. By law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate individual issues in the part of the Croatian Parliament by regulations, the Government is empowered to regulate issues from that part of the circle, except for changes in the state budget and regulation of taxes and those issues, which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, can only be regulated by HS. Since the power delegated by the applicable law ceases by a constitutional deadline of one year from the date of its entry into force, i.e. 10 December 2019, this law proposes to further authorise the Government to regulate certain issues in the HS section by respecting applicable constitutional restrictions and current legislative practice. It is also proposed to remain in force until 30 November 2020, on the basis of the legal powers applicable to the date of entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177791	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State. Would the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please welcome colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177792	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Before I start discussing this law, I would remind everyone that today we mark 2 years after General Slobodan Praljko's death, 2 years since he sent us the strongest message ever received by the Croatian people. So it's about this man. And I invite you, given that HS doesn't hold to the message and his, to this man, that those who wish, stand up and give a minute of silence to General Free Praljko. A moment of silence, his eternal glory. Here, I must say, I am extremely pleased that almost everyone present in the assembly has stood up and respected one great sacrifice and a message that General Praljak sent to the Croatian people. And as far as this law is concerned, he's nice. We're talking about the power of HS. I will be here, I will not speak specifically of the subject because the law itself is not bad, but I will talk about the fact that the HS unfortunately represents less and less for the Croatian people. So that we have transferred more and more of our sovereignty to the EU Parliament and the EU. And that's what's wrong and that's what's not good for the Croatian people. A few days ago, we heard that Mr Weber pointed out 5 points, 5 goals for the EU Parliament in the next period, and the point is that he says only European parliamentarians have electoral legitimacy and the EU Commission and the EU Council where we have representatives means government or state representatives equally, one country will play a smaller and smaller role. I'm curious about what's going on in Croatia. How 11 or 12 Croatian euro-parliamentaries will be able to function tomorrow, how many powers will be able to counter several hundred French, German and Italian lawmakers in the EU parliament. I think it is one situation that is extremely bad for the Croatian people because obviously we have left our sovereignty to another. We had a similar situation, I will say 30 years ago when the sovereignty of our country of Croatia was not in this House. But he was, you know where? In the Belgrade Assembly. Today, unfortunately, the sovereignty and powers of the HS we are discussing are becoming less and less important, and more and more of the key decisions are being taken in the EU parliament. And I would like to warn one more thing, here constantly in Croatia, in the media trying to portray HS as a place of work, as a place where people don't come to work, as a place of corruption, where they mean, talking about sloths in the Croatian Assembly and the unemployed. However, I must say here that not just by defending any fellow who is not on his job who is not coming to work, I must say that this is one systematic meaning not by chance but by a systematic story that tries to offend this home, and I will stress this home and I have pointed out many times the most important place for Croatian politics and for the Croatian state. Therefore, in the future, I want more and more decisions to be made for the Croatian people in this house and as little as possible in Brussels.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177793	Thank you. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the club of representatives we have a colleague of Vlaovic. Here's a colleague of Vlaović's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177794	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Fellow Members and colleagues, I request a break from the Secretary of State on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats in order to consult on this agenda point that we can leave these areas to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate these areas by regulations. I would like to remind you that since yesterday, 600 workers of Đura Djakovic are on strike for failure to pay their salaries. Here are also today what is signifying that citizens of Slavonski Brod and teachers, teachers and teachers, who are asking both Slavonski Brod and the county to engage more actively in solving the problem. So I propose that a regulation be put in the government's power to address the issue of the Djuro Djakovic group because we see that this agony has been going on for years, that the state is one of the co-owners means it has the elements to be involved in solving the problem. It's not enough just to declare that we're going to help, it's not enough we're declaring that the workers you're right, management is bad, management is gone and now as far away as possible. For these very reasons, I think that by regulation, you have rejected the HSS amendment to ensure the state budget of 200 million kunas to address this problem, that the Government regulation regulates this area to ensure the financial resources for the payout of salaries, to pay the Christmas workers, and also to finally end the strike of teachers, teachers and teachers for children and parents, because of Croatia's future. I think these 6.11 coefficients need to be solved and that's enough boasting about it I've given you. He didn't give anything, they were taxpayers to pay in the state budget. The fact that the EU has also paid 467m euros to its farmers because of the agricultural crisis, and we are reducing the agricultural budget. Is it also necessary for agricultural producers to rise with tractors and come to Zagreb with workers of Đura Đaković. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177795	I thank my colleague Vlaovic. There's no one else. I'm setting a break to nine o'clock and 50 minutes. It's 9:00. CONTINUATION AFTER 9:52 A.M. We continue with the work of the plenary session. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177797	Thank you very much. Secretary. Here is what always comes before us, and this is the proposal for a law on government powers that regulates certain questions about the activities of the Croatian Parliament. Regardless of this bill, I believe that the Croatian Parliament must be the center of decision-making and decision-making, unfortunately it has been converted into buying and chips and today we have chaos in the Republic of Croatia where the Parliament is essentially humiliated, where Parliament should be at the heart of the power of decision and, of course, in this chaos when we transfer something to the government that creates daily chaos, which does not solve problems. We can't talk about Đura Djakovic right now to have someone wash their hands and get in front of the county there, I followed it, to wash hands of those who are in power both in the county and in the state, which is HDZ. So, we have a number of problems that the government doesn't meet here, and we also had a decision on the integrity of credit and savings cooperatives, but it was unanimously brought here almost by consensus, i.e.. By consensus of all present, the government simply does nothing. Still our citizens and criminal groups from the savings cooperatives that have been expelled from Hungary, expelled from Austria today continue to emigrate our people, i.e. They take away their property. No matter what this House has passed, and the government is not doing anything, some kind of correction would be made to that law. If it is in the interest of the Government and if we, as a Parliament, have passed a law aimed at protecting these people from the savings-credited cooperatives from those interestors who have captured in the executive procedure, it is simply impossible to return other than interest anything, the usual principal remains the same, their entire assets on the islands of Rab and many other areas our citizens have lost their property, without everything they have in life, until these Austrian savings cooperatives can do so in Austria. And they did contrary to the regulations that the Republic of Croatia has, however, the government is doing nothing, which means what the Assembly unanimously accepted, which it essentially accepted by consensus without any vote against the government is doing anything. And as for the management of all processes, the government's decisions are mismanaged. Currently, the government cannot solve the problem in schools, education, students are not in schools, teachers are on strike most of them. We have one huge problem, we have a problem like I said right now in Djura Djakovic and everyone is washing their hands. Says the economy minister that he will arrive in front of the people on Monday. But we must repeat once again that in the county, HDZ is in power, that it is in power and that in front of that county they wash their hands and that the minister of the economy is the hands of the Pilates. And why would I, as a parliamentary representative, leave any authority, why would they interrupt this session at all, why would we even go on any vacation, why would I give you anything to manage, why? What's the reason why you're moving out and this little bit of your people's decisions on what you've moved out of? We do not have an estimate now, the minister cannot say how much this year will be from the payment of our evicted Croats from two-thirds of Croatia. How much will the deposit be based on the receipts? What will be the revenues of the Republic of Croatia from the evicted people from two thirds of Croatia? Why would this Parliament give to anyone no matter what this has been up to now simply been Parliament's breaks, why would we miss this crisis situation with this government to manage these processes that have led to a chaotic situation? A chaotic situation where helicopters smuggle weapons, where things happen catastrophicly that don't smell like happening, can't be thrown into the mud by a Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier must be protected, where the President of the Republic and the National Security Council does not function, where security services do not function, where the system is occupied by the ego of one man who manages this government and by the silence of the majority here and by silence. So in one chaos, the Parliament that was supposed to be the main body, but to not only attack the majority, we also had a choice in the EU now that we have chosen the commission, we have seen both HDZ and SDP unanimously support the European Commission and that is yours over the body and each other. You have to listen to them. And it's this eternal common interest in governance in governance structures and that's important to the prime minister. Is it critical that if you mention anything against the EU, anything, to say that the Croatian people that we have an obligation to the Croatian people, they declare the Croatian territory an exclusive economic belt he will not because it must be submitted to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177798	Dear colleague Bulj, I am asking nicely for a item on the agenda is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177799	I'm saying exactly that I don't want as a parliamentary representative to give power to the government, I don't want to be interrupted by the session until.../Speakers speak at the same time./... on the subject I'm talking about /Speakers speak at the same time./... [[Invader Brkić: What is the subject of this debate.]] That I have to give as Parliament's attorney of power to the government on regulations, and I don't want to give it. It is my right as a parliamentary representative whether together you, Mr Vice President, together you and HDZ and the SDP have chosen the European Commission without any remorse, without the eye twitching, you have chosen together and in this party now elected by the European People's Party, you know who is, you know who is in that party, if you see very Tajani, which is why you cannot declare the exclusive economic belt. I don't want to give this government, and not to talk about Chetnik Vukic who is in your family, I don't want to give, I'm just discussing the subject, the topic is that we give that government, that the parliament leaves to the government to adopt a regulation of power that has the Croatian Parliament, that we tend to empower, I don't want, I don't want the government to move Croatia, I don't want to, I want to be told how many Croats are evicted and how much funds from abroad our young people will pay to their families. 5% of last year's GDP, 74% more than the previous year, that's what I've been saying to the esteemed vice president all the time. The prime minister on the budget said it was my slaps, that I'm talking slaps, 5% of GDP. More than Ireland when it was in the biggest crisis, when it was the biggest eviction, more than any country in Europe. Why should I give these powers to this Croatian Parliament, why? And the fact that you chose the government together... What you are to the European Commission or the European Government of the EU and what you will chair this year is the least important to me. Because if it meant something to the EU presidency then President Jandrokovic, the speaker of the assembly, would have been able to answer the question of who chaired the presidency last year, but he does not care, nor is it interesting. I would like to say that this government and this Prime Minister anything critical you say to the European Commission, to cut it down like a kitten on a chicken, and when it comes to Đura Djakovic's problems, the teacher's problems, the health services problems, the problems of the exclusive economic belt, the problems that strangers, foreign legal and physical powers will be able to buy agricultural land, when you mention it then it is less important that we are, however, that we are within Europe, but we have the right to speak of this as parliamentary representatives. And I'm talking about the regulation, so the vice president doesn't get me wrong, I'm talking about the regulation and I'm asking as a parliamentary representative to keep working and we're making this decision. And that's my legitimate right, I haven't strayed from the subject. And it's my problem, my problem as a parliamentary representative, but I have to point out that both SDP and HDZ together have chosen the European Commission, headed by the euro of the regiment. In this party is Tajani, which is why the Croatian government must not protect our territory with an exclusive economic belt, there is no courage, and it is not the first league that comes with Plenkovic here to support him, not the first league, not the first league, league champions. The champion's league is those who pay him 5%, and they have no right or the voice he has evicted, neither has he made it possible to vote electronically or by letter, which pays for his damages where he boasts that economic growth is. And I don't want to give him authority, my Dalmatia has been evicted, the Dalmatian Zagora has been evicted, they have made Pharaoh, this government has made the Pharaohs of the mayors. The addicts were made by mayors and mayors, she made listeners out of local self-government leaders because if they're not good with mayors they won't get kunas. I don't want to give such a prime minister and such a government as a parliamentary representative of the power to make any decision in the assembly, I don't want to. And it's my legitimate right to talk about it, it's my legitimate right. This government doesn't deserve that support, I can say it on behalf of the MOST Club, because I speak on behalf of the Most, this government does not deserve to make decisions from the Croatian Parliament's section. Because there is plenty of haughtiness and underestimation of the home where it was worth being, above which it was intended to be only God, where we would have the tribals to present their position, where we would have to debate, where you to the Croatian Parliament, with the help of Vladimir Seks and Andrej Plenkovic and others, take away the right of speech to the parliamentary representatives. reduce the right of speech by amending the Rules of Procedure. So, as long as we don't have the right replica, we don't have anything to say if we don't have any other options to get any warnings, it's throwing us out. The parliamentary representative in this house was deprived of the fundamental right, which is the right to be the centre of power of decision and that the government is responsible for the Croatian Parliament, not that the president will hold everything and subscribe to the prime minister. The Prime Minister is the one who's doing what we have here to say. In the Croatian Parliament, too, we should be interested, there should be opposition, there should be power to be successful, and that we are the driver who controls and pushes, but in this government, I repeat again have no confidence as a parliamentary representative or club of independent lists because the problems are not solved in the interests of the Croatian people, but are done obediently in the interests of Brussels and Brussels corridors. And in this we have proved that simply the partocracy is in action, it is visible in the European Commission's choice where the joint HDZ and SDP have chosen the meanings of the European Commission. This government doesn't have the strength to solve basic problems, we've proposed a number of laws. We have a problem with glyphosate, I am, our minister says that this is not a problem, Austria has banned here in the EU, this herbicide that is poisoned, where the World Health Organization warns, but associated.../incomprehensible/... with these multinational companies and the EU and lobbying them is not in the interest of the Croatian man, but this government is working in the interest of only the EU. As a home, we must worry exclusively about the interests of the Croatian people and the Croatian state. This government has emptied, governments in continuity, and this particular one has emptied 2/3 of Croatia, and the state is not if there are no people, it is not enough only territory. And I think, here's another honourable vice president that I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I spoke to the position of MOST Club, that this government doesn't deserve to bring the regulations to the part of the Croatian Parliament, because simply this government doesn't hold the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, and it should be, it's chosen from the Croatian Parliament, I think that the Croatian Parliament is humiliated, demoted only on Fridays at noon is full of votes, meaning it simply works on the principle of harvesting and buying parliamentary representatives, and I think once again I speak to her publicly that the Croatian Assembly of the Tribba continues to continue on a continuous basis regardless of these constitutional obligations on the residences, is such a serious situation in the Republic of Croatia where there is no protection of the interest of the Croatian man, where there is no respect for the laws nor in any case where the Croatian military can be directed to the police to protect and the security of our citizens because I have seen that they are in the border area in fear. I don't think this law is good. at this moment when this government is. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177800	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I'd called before my friend Bulja, I'd have said something a little shorter, but I've got to look back on what he said. First, I agree with him that this government does not deserve to get the authority to lay down regulations in this part when the assembly does not meet, but this state does not deserve to be blocked as long as this archaic constitution is in force, and then, between these two dilemmas, we will still support this law for two reasons. The first is why we, when we were government, asked for the Parliament's trust that we were making regulations until the assembly was in session, we would regularly get it, and we didn't use that power too much, but we used it more than this government does. So it would be very incorrect of us to use the least of our words that we are now overly opposed to it. After all, it seems to me that only one regulation, right, is currently in effect. And secondly, when this law was in the first reading, I personally proposed an amendment, the conclusion that the regulation solves this issue that we have for the next item of the agenda, which is the transport of children by this ferry. So here's why we're going to support this law. Secondly, as regards the European Commission's election, you forgot to mention two other MPs who voted for the European Commission, these are Mr Flego from the IDS, which may not have been so highlighted at the moment, but also Mrs Ruža Tomasic, who is usually from the party sovereigns. You very often use the word sovereigns so that, no, you are not a sovereign but very often you use sovereignty as a setting in your, in your, well, there. So, as far as I'm concerned, I think the European Commission vote shows primarily that we want Brussels to impose something on us rather than at least from our point of view that we are equal in making decisions in this and such Brussels because I am not sure this would be better for Croatia if it were outside the EU borders. Otherwise, I think the fact that you and HDZ voted for the HDZ government twice was much worse for Croatia turned out to be that you voted twice for, that you and HDZ voted twice for the HDZ government than that we voted together with the German Democrats, the Austrian People's Party and other democratic parties that are members of the European People's Party, of course having seen some of these, would not say the League of Champions, but as we say in the slang, some of the champions who brought us to Zagreb. I'll be back on the subject now, Mr. Vice President, but I had to answer some of my colleagues to Bull. Here we are discussing the laws that the Government should adopt on the basis of the delegated powers of the Croatian Parliament, and I should also say something about regulations that the Government should adopt without the delegation of powers by the Croatian Parliament, and one of the most obvious examples of this is, for example, a regulation on the names of jobs and coefficients of the complexity of public services, which is within the authority of the Government, which concerns, for example, the coefficients of public officials working in the education system, or this known coefficient for teachers, which is already causing such recommendations that the strike has already been held for 30 and a few days, and this, among other things, has been announced by one union as a result of a statement of 88% against the government's offer. So I call on the government to adopt not a regulation that will be authorized by the parliament now by this law but by a regulation that already has the basis of the powers of the assembly and the law on public service wages and that finally ends this strike story in protest. So, a few weeks ago, I called on the prime minister to cut his ego by 6% and increase the coefficients. I see the time moving away that I need to increase, now I think you should cut your ego by 80% and increase the coefficients by 6% by a regulation that the government would pass beyond Parliament's authority, I need to repeat this if you don't tell me that I'm not in the subject, past the powers of the council to adopt regulations until the council is in session. So in that sense, with a desire for the government to finally adopt a regulation that already has powers, we will support the new powers of regulation so that the regulation can be found on the agenda as soon as the children return to school when we already have to remove ourselves from these benches for a month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177802	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177803	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the part of the Croatian Parliament. The government's authority to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament's section under the now applicable law, which will stop the government's power on December 10th of this year. It is hereby proposed that the Government be granted the power to regulate certain issues of current economic policy from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, and under the applicable Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues from the Croatian Parliament. The power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issue of current economic policy is limited by another provision under which the Government of the Republic of Croatia can use this power only at a time when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting, the extremely authorised Government of the Republic of Croatia, to regulate certain questions from the part of the Croatian Parliament other than those which, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by the first meeting of the newly elected Croatian Parliament. The basis for the adoption of this law is the constitutional provision of Article 88. The Constitution which provides that the Government of the Republic of Croatia may, by virtue of the power conferred on the Constitution to regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, which do not relate to finance or state budget, to tax policy as well as to issues relating to human rights, electoral system, structure and part-round state institutions of local, regional (regional) self-government. The law uses that constitutional authority in a restrictive manner by allowing the Government to regulate those issues by its regulations only at a time when the Croatian Parliament is not sitting or when it is dissolved. when his term of office expired. I repeat, the current law granting the government the power will cease on December 10th this year. Therefore, the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177804	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177805	Thank you, dear Vice President. Honorable representatives of the Ministry of Administration. Very short, purely for public information. So what we are doing here is the powers that we are giving the Government in the case, not under obligation, not necessarily, but in the event that there is a need for a period when the Parliament is not sitting, which is a constitutional break from 15 December to 15 January, and from 15 July to 15 September, may regulate certain issues from the part-line of the Croatian Parliament, except for those changes concerning changes and additions to the state budget, tax regulation and those issues which are authorised by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to be governed by the Parliament alone. So this government reports the same report on what was made, it's not something that may not happen to any regulation or any decision, perhaps. We can't leave the state without it, it's something that's in practice. Now we can talk about whether we should have a constitutional break or not, that's another pair of gloves. It is also stated here in Article 2 that in the event of elections, the same is true until a new assembly of parliaments is established so that the state can absolutely function. So, the constitution forbids what some colleagues asked the government to bring in a regulation, so some money pays off, it can't. That may have been required by amending the budget for this year, but from what I've seen, it wasn't the same submitted, I'm not saying it would have been accepted, but at least then it would have been addressed to a good place. And not here today to talk about something, to use some maybe opportunities for some political issues, so I think this is an extraordinary way to say something that's settled in practice, not just with us, something that's normal, which should, as long as it's such a system so the Parliament doesn't sit. If it ever changes then we won't... And that's all the talk about this today's law because I think everything else is the use of this pay phone and stage for certain political issues that have nothing to do with the agenda, and that's why I wanted to say it here and explain to the public exactly what we're discussing here, that this is something that has already been established in our practice, and that this is going to be something that we need. There are certainly other opportunities to address the public for certain topics, and this will, of course, be supported by the HNS club because we believe it allows for the smooth functioning of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177806	Thank you. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177807	Thank you very much. Here I am only going to personally repeat once again that this is coming out, and this was brought up to mean this final proposal just so the public understands, that the people understand who is following this if someone follows, that this is where the activities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are regulated by certain powers from the Croatian Parliament, which means that the Government will also adopt regulations in other acts from the Parliament's section. However, as I will trust the government, which itself under the auspices of Andrej Plenkovic, where Minister Grlic Radman and his predecessors and Davor Ivo Stier and Pejcinović-Buric violate the current decisions of the government of the Republic of Croatia, under which the Commission for Serbia's control in joining the EU in monitoring chapters 23 and 24, she herself was in charge of the Government. The minister calls on the commission four times a year to see Serbia chapters 23 and 24 of the EU accession. Not a single meeting was held, not a single meeting and still chapters of the Republic of Serbia are being opened, chapters are being opened to a man in a country headed by Vukic, who is of course a penitent Chetnik, but Cheseliu Cheseliu and this Government and that government does not respect their decisions, and we as the largest body, legislative body, a people's home, the home of the people's representatives HS would now be granted power to this government, so this decision was taken on the Commission's 2016. and this commission is required to inform the president or president of the Republic of Croatia once a year, I have asked the presidents of the Republic of Croatia who kept quiet about the problem, of course, if she agreed with Vukica here when she spilled the red wallpaper up here on Pantovacka to the brush, whom she had not dared to ask when she was going to go to Croatia's Clay in the war, had he been hoarding people, that government, be careful that the government did not send the report to the president of the Republic, it was only one meeting held when that body was founded in 2016. Here's Grlic Radman's 5th month minister, and I told him that, and why should I trust the government, why would my colleagues and colleagues trust this government? So as long as Serbia doesn't meet, here in this case, everything, everything that the triba fills, means from our missing to the damages of campers and war damage, there's nothing to open up to Vucica's chapters, it's blocked, so what we had to do with our governments to touch the European officials, so Sanader, Colinda, the president of what was then a minister, toast with Carla de Ponte and wait for General Gotovina's arrest, toast, and we open up to Serbia, who is mocking us, the Chetnik, mocking us, we spread the red wallpaper, so by your majority, it's a part of the storm, why I believe that government, and it's my legitimate right to be against this one, it's my legitimate right. I will repeat this always because I have to repeat this, the Croatian government, foreign ministers, Stier, and Pejcinović Buric, and Bosovna, under the auspices of Andrej Plenkovic, do not respect the government's decision, do not respect the law. Which means that the Croatian victims of Serbian and Montenegrin aggression again become victims under the patronage of Andrej Plenkovic. Well, we had to, remember, we don't have the strength to declare IGP, so this body stands up against it, so you didn't vote for IGP, full use of IGP, to protect our fisherman, now we're going to buy 700 000 acres of raw land. I'm saying the reasons why we won't support... [[Intruder: Dear colleague Bulj...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177808	...the foundation of the article. In 239, I give you a warning because you do not stick to the topic of the agenda, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177809	Only if you can explain what I'm in violation of the subject? I'm talking about a regulation on this bill of law where HS, where the government will assume certain powers of HS, I'm telling all arguments why I won't support this government, that I give this government the support to support this law and that's my legitimate right. Not only is my legitimate right, and not only has you taken away both HDZ and SDP together, you have caused a change in the Rules of Procedure where you have reduced the right to speak to the MPs. Dear Chairman, you would have to protect the MPs from giving their opinion if at this point I'm not insulting anything, I'm just saying I don't trust this government to give her these powers. If the Government does not respect its 2016 decisions, on the establishment of the Committee on the Monitoring of Serbia in the EU accession and it had to meet four times a year, not once, and the President of the Commission is the Minister, neither Stier Davor, but only once in Oreshkovic's Government, after both Davor Ivo Stier, nor was it awarded to Pejcinović Buric, who is now high in European bodies, and neither Grlic Radman, nor one of them, and who were responsible for the chairman of the Republic of Croatia to send a report, and why would I give my representative as a parliamentary representative, my support for such a government to take the powers of HS, I have the right to talk about this, I am the problem why the Croatian Government did not support, why did not support the IGP declaration and protect national interest? My problem is what, what HS didn't discuss if it could have been Bundestag, about the Marrakek Compact and the Marrakek Agreement. We didn't even discuss the Marrakech compact, and now we have a problem where an illegal, where illegal entry of migrants, illegal entry, mostly in the border area, here I was in Vrgorec with a man who stole a car from the garage, his car was destroyed, and the man is afraid for his property and his safety, people in this area are afraid of my, in the Cetina province, afraid until, in all of Zagora, illegal migrants entered Gorski Kotar, and we couldn't discuss here the Marrakek compact or agreement, we're not allowed to, of course, with the chairman of the committee of Mr. Kovac who didn't even let the vote on the conclusion. Therefore, this government cannot get my support, I am speaking individually, it cannot get my support because it does not respect government decisions, it does not respect government decisions and it is not all the EU and the European Commission, it is not all, really when I see the prime minister speaking heartily about the EU, about the European Commission, I would like to protect national interests and say that if Hungarians have banned land from selling to foreign legal and physical persons, and neither will Croats if the Croats can't buy land agriculturally in Hungary, so why can't it be the other way around? So if we're equal, I can't give the government that's called exclusively to the EU, and when it says that the league of champions is history, a visit of Europeans to me is the league of champions of all those who were evicted from Croatia during this government and before and who are paying into this budget, and their hearths remain empty, their parents are left alone in their hearth, extinct our villages, extinct. I can't support this government because it hasn't made good decisions. I can't give the government support when I ask the prime minister that 5% of GDP comes from foreign payments from our emigrants, and he's denying it, he says it's my ticks. Until it came out in the media that it was increased in 2018. 84% overseas. There's no projection this year. It's an artificial economic growth where 130 thousand work permits were signed for foreign workers this year. We've evicted our people, they're indicators we need to talk about. And that's for the prime minister's slap. For me, it's not a tick, moving Croats out of 2/3 of Croatia. And not just from Croatia. They didn't even stop to protect the good of the Croats from BiH because they're moving out, the people are dying out there, and there's an absolute foreign policy that's catastrophic. Only what part of the government visits neatly, part of the government of Bačka Palanka when we celebrate it in Knin the largest and most honorable victory of the Croatian army. When part of the majority goes to a Chetnik party in Backo Palank along with Vukica. I to this government because of everything I've said, and this is part of it I can't give the authority to bring what it has. The Croatian Parliament, I will not support this. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177810	Dear fellow Bull. Before continuing, I welcome the gallery of students and students, as well as professors and professors of secondary school from Delnica. Welcome and comfortable stay at HS. We have replicas, dear colleague Davor Lonchar. [[Applause.]] Here you go. Okay. Dear colleague Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177811	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor. What is Serbia's accession to the EU? Is that perhaps less Croatian and more global interest? But Serbia should, in my opinion, correct its policy towards Croatia and not only towards Croatia, but also towards Kosovo and Bosnia. What do you think about that? Where's Vlad's fault?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177812	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177813	Thank you very much. I think that's why I don't give the government, my colleague Kirin, I hope that you won't support this proposal either, give your authority to the government which means it doesn't meet the commitments made by the government itself, which is to monitor Serbia's accession to the EU and of course nothing has taken place by the government. The border is where the Chetnik troops line up, Vukic, where the Croatian soldier freed and helped not lead in Bosnia on a bull's enclave of greater evil than it was in Srebrenica. Chetnik troops line up at the border, Vukic is a Chetnik. He's acting like a penitent, but he's a clean brush. He urged people of Serbian nationality to the borders of Greater Serbia and claimed that Croatia's Glina would never be, that it is Serbian. And this man until he meets all these conditions, until Serbia meets the three conditions I said, wartime, first missing, campers, damages them and war damage They need to be blocked. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Croatia has the right to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177814	Next replica, dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177815	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Bull. I can understand that you have lost confidence in this government even though you have once voted in favour of such a law and it is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, but I can understand that you do not trust anymore. It is legitimate, what is not good for me and legitimately, to put their political goals, views, opinions, thinking, whatever you want, everything you have stated in front of the possible needs of the Croatian state and everything that, in that period, during the short period of time, would prove to be a direct need. We still need to think more about the state, less about our political views, and that's actually the point of this reason. I respect your prejudices, differing political differences, that you can once give support, twice not, and that's legitimate, but here it is more about protecting the interests of this country, rather than choosing political sides and attitudes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177816	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177817	Well, I totally understand. You, to make it simple and legitimate, I was part of the majority, I didn't vote for the budget. ... I didn't vote for the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I didn't vote for the budget when I was a part of the majority. You can check that out and see if any of the other MPs from the '90s did it today. Just because of this 2/3 of Croatia. And it is my legitimate right here to debate, regardless of what you have been involved in reducing the right of MPs to amend their Rules of Procedure and voting for it. It's my right to say why I won't vote because this government has moved out, this government is, then I said the milder version is bad. Not bad, she's catastrophic. I repeat, why did the prime minister not admit and openly say that 5% of GDP from the people of the evicted Croats is at large? He said it was my tick, until it came out in the media that it increased 74%. 74% increased by our people who he targetedly evicted as it was in the '60s.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177818	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177819	Thank you very much. I can understand Mr. Butt in his discussion, but we need to be both responsible and serious. So the fact is that the 15th 12th Parliament will no longer be in session. Right? And the fact that, unfortunately, by 15.1., too, it won't sit because it's a constitutional break and as long as we don't change it, and I'm saying we change it because there's no reason for HS to have such long breaks in moments when the state needs certain problems to be solved, so to speak. So I'm calling here everyone, the ruling majority and all those who can influence us to lift Mr. Bull's constitutional breaks. So if we did that then there wouldn't be any need for laws like this and here on that side I have to tell you that I don't agree with you that this law shouldn't be supported because the state has to work. We already have a crisis in this situation that's never been seen before. So never before have we had this kind of blockade of normal processes in the country thanks to HDZ, thanks to HDZ, pardon, since the Homeland War. So this is the biggest crisis Croatia has since the Homeland War caused by HDZ's actions, i.e. by failure and by not giving what our employees in the education system deserve, they deserve. And you can't see the end of it, unfortunately you can't see the end of it. And now I'm going to say one more thing, if the government doesn't solve it by 15.12 they won't be able to solve it. Christmas holidays are coming, New Year's Eves, tell me my colleagues and colleagues are you and a little uncomfortable about what the state is in the blockade. I'm looking at this HDZ, if you're looking for a solution, Mr. Lonchar, ma'am. Luka, are you looking for a solution? Mr. Bacic, are you looking for solutions? Are you looking for solutions? Inadmissible colleagues and colleagues 35 days from that 14, 15 days of school year are our children sitting at home instead of in schools. And it's an interesting question that my son asked me today when we were moving towards here because I said let's go to the Parliament, he tells me whether the comrades should make up for the days they strike. And then I wonder how they strike, so they don't strike in the hall. And I realize what a child is watching TV these days realizes that there are no 90% of parliamentary representatives here that they do not sit here and represent Croatian citizens and that the child is justly asked whether the parliamentary representatives will compensate for this unhappiness which some of them, let's be honest, are not all of them, fulfilling obligations, but a good part of them does not execute. And maybe that's one good lesson children and parents and grandparents will get here. They sit at home for 30 days needlessly and those who should solve the problem do not solve it, the government, HDZ, the majority of the assembly and are not yet in the assembly. My colleagues and colleagues, what kind of message we send to our children, what message we send to society, what message we send to people who refused to report yesterday, and today it will be announced by the acclaim they have refused to make an incredibly arrogant offer from the government without a shred of understanding of what they are looking for. And the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic still dare call those people irrational. 90% of our teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, not HDZ staff and the prime minister are called irrational. Is he aware of what he says in general?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177820	A colleague of Maras, a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177821	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177822	I would ask you nicely to return to the topic, that is, the agenda point and do not talk about other topics. You will have the opportunity to take a stand on all other topics today. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177823	Mr. Brkic, is, all right, but this is about the government getting some powers by the regulation on 15.12 and I agree that as well as my colleague, Bauk should and should give it unless it is settled by 15.12 this law and additional powers to finally get it off the agenda. So that's one set because I see where it's going. And with this law, we may be able to help solve this problem because of this situation. So it's very connected and it's impossible in a state that doesn't function for 40 days and it's been given to the government to solve problems after 15.12. It's impossible not to mention the current situation and the crisis that happened. And what seduces me is that a hundred thousand means 90% of the people, 90 thousand people called the prime minister irrational. And those little fizzies that I'm looking at yesterday on the Direct, who are doing as this fellow who also told people that they're turning in the irrational direction on one television show as if these people don't understand where they live, as if they don't realize that people are sick of injustice. So once you cross the border, you have to say enough, and we won't take it anymore. And it could simply be solved, if given to all 6,12, and then it could be given to 6,11 teachers. So if everyone else came after them, it wouldn't cost as much as the prime minister has now given 6,12 and shouldn't have increased everyone. There are 4.5 groups that should be increased to correct injustices but the directors of the ministry's administrations who are now reporting for tenders that will have 13.14 thousand kunas should not have their salaries increased, should not. There are tens of thousands in the system that do not need to increase wages and coefficients but teachers and teachers, aunts who cook, those who maintain schools, they need to raise salaries, understand this to Mr Plenkovic and deprive this nation of agony. This is amazing. So we no longer know how to put ourselves in a everyday situation that is normal, take the child to school. We can't take him, the Croatian citizens are blocked because of the madness I will tell Prime Minister Plenkovic and his refusal to do what is logical and I understand that here in the HDZ Assembly, we can't replicate or say you're wrong. No HDZ representative has raised the tablet, colleagues and colleagues, and they feel that injustice should be corrected but cannot possibly understand why Prime Minister Plenkovic is doing it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177824	Dear colleague Maras, based on art. In 239, I give you a warning because you don't stick to the subject. Go ahead, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177825	But did I explain it to you, Mr. Brcko? How different was the Buleva debate from mine? [[/Invader Brkić: I explained to you, you continue your colleague, go ahead.]] I listened to her on the way here, and you gave nothing to me, and you didn't give it to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177826	Comrade Maras, if you had been at your post then you would have known that I had warned my colleagues, since you were not present, please continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177827	Okay, okay, sorry, if you gave, then stick to the criteria. Thank you very much. [[Intruder Brkić: continue, please.]] So, as far as that goes, people who are home today and students who aren't at school have to understand that the government has this regulation that's on the agenda, the possibility of solving certain things, among them, and the coefficients. So there's a possibility of solving certain things and she should have solved it because it's logical. So that's why we're giving the government these powers of 15. 12th up because up to 15. 12. The Assembly interrupts the session, I find it totally unwarranted and if there is ever an initiative to amend the Constitution, here I am giving the Bianca support if it is proposed by the HDZ to lift these pointless parliamentary breaks for a month during the winter and even 2 months. during the summer. It means 12 months. We are working, 3 out of 12 months, so 1/4 years, the Croatian Parliament is not sitting, and that is why we are making such regulations that should not be passed, but since the Constitution is so, since that is the rule, that this year and next year in the summer, I call, of course, and I will vote for this law because the state cannot be without the possibility of a solution to the problem, but once again I call for powers to be used in the interests of citizens. So in the interests of those whose problems we need to solve, in the interest of those who chose us to make decisions on their behalf. And the decision that should be made on their behalf to solve the problem we have at school today is to increase the coefficients and bring the children back to school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177828	Thank you, colleague Maras, we have a few replicas, dear colleague Sabina Vosovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177829	Dear colleague Maras, I disagree with you, I don't think this regulation has anything to do with any additional instruments to resolve agony in Croatian schools. Namely, already now all the instruments to break strikes and return teachers and teachers to schools are actually in the hands of the government, they have every opportunity only by one regulation to satisfy the unions and stabilise the entire system already tomorrow, return the students and teachers to classrooms and bring the end of this semester. There are only two possible scenarios, one of which is this one and the other is a judicial ban on a strike that I sincerely hope will not reach out to because at the moment if it comes to such a decision, the situation becomes further unstable and every outcome is unpredictable, and I think we're entering the chaos sphere and that no one will be able to control things anymore, and that's why I only appeal is from here to realize how serious the situation is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177830	Thank you, answer, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177831	Thank you very much. I agree completely with you, colleague Voter, but you know what we're going to lose 15. 12. when does this regulation or this law come into force? We will lose this because no one else in the public space will speak because the Parliament will stop sitting if the problem is not resolved by then, maybe it is in the interest of the HDZ, to move the public away from the problem, that we do not have the opportunity to pass on the message of our citizens and on that side, I absolutely agree with you, this agony should end now, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow and on Monday the children should go to school. Only enough is for Prime Minister Plenkovic to accept the increase in the coefficient, only once a little "yes" to these 90s and a little bit of "no" that teachers told him. To solve a problem which unfortunately he himself caused to all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177832	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please welcome colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177833	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the club, I, too, stressed two things as important, which is that the government is already benefiting from the regulation, but in order to bring this debate even closer to the topic of not getting any notices, the SDP Club will propose a conclusion on this law that the government is obliged to adopt within 7 days the regulation that you have spoken about, and then the Croatian Parliament and the vote will declare their views on the teachers strike so that we will be in business form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177834	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Here's your colleague, Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177835	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I absolutely agree with you, and if we are talking about a regulation or regulations that the Government will adopt that define the entire segment of legislation in the Republic of Croatia, then it is amazing that, on any subject, they can be removed as they have told me from the Rules of Procedure and profit, so you can speak because this one, as the law says, allows the Government to adopt a regulation and all economic and other segments other than budget and tax laws. So everything else is involved in the debate. So I'm talking here now about any topic involved in the possible adoption of a 15-year-old government regulation. 12 to 15. One, he wouldn't be out of context, especially when it comes to the coefficients of our teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177836	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177837	Dear colleague Maras, you came here five minutes ago and immediately started calling. I wonder what you'd be doing as a minister in Milanovic's government? When 2015 was an enlightening strike, your presidential candidate said, quote, a strike by the educators will trigger the citizens' revolt because it's completely missed. This kind of blackmail attempt is comical, parents get the most hurt. So that's your hypocrisy, while the SDP was in power, while doctors were on strike, I didn't strike. I support the efforts of teachers and teachers to fight for their rights, but not in such a hypocritical way, stop calling out more others because while you were a minister and this entrepreneurship, and you were only working in a party and on a Whitelight that failed, you didn't say that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177838	Comrade Cellic, please stick to the subject. I've already told the others. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177839	No, it's not, feel free to let it go, I like this kind of debate because when a man who's a doctor of science goes down on portals directly.hr and those who publish and fabricate nonsense, then it says more about him than I do, go ahead, Mr. Cellic, keep going. I'm sure you'll succeed in your political work, won't you? But if you support teachers, how do you see it from your behavior? Did you invite Prime Minister Plenkovic to increase the coefficients? Go ahead, turn on this button and tell Prime Minister Plenkovic, increase the coefficient. What does that mean, I'm a supportive teacher? What do you support them in? That they don't work? That our kids don't go to school? You'll be pressing green here today as Plenkovic tells you and you won't do anything. So don't talk nonsense and don't tell the truth to Croatian citizens because you don't support them. Tell Plenkovic to increase the coefficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177840	Comrade Maras, I would kindly ask you to use a more polite expression in this High House and not to use such words in communication and in discussions and appeal to everyone in HS to stick to the Rules of Procedure and to make the expression appropriate to this High House. Comrade Cellic, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177841	He's been injured. 238. My colleague Maras, I didn't say anything stupid, but I quoted what the Prime Minister of the Government said on September 25, 2015. What can be offered will be offered, and I believe the government of the Republic of Croatia will reach an agreement with the unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177842	Comrade Cellic, you have had a reply to the replica, so please do not in future abuse the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure and I do not believe that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We're moving on. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177843	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Maras. Me and the HSS are against the authorities, the government of the Republic of Croatia, to pass the knowledge of the public, making decisions besides HS. This can only be acceptable if there is a crisis and if there are some exceptional circumstances. And since we often call on the EU Commission and their regulation, here is a fine example, the EU Commission has adopted a regulation 27.11. paying farmers 476m euros for the agricultural crisis because agricultural producers have been strikein'. Well then, not as you say, that after 15.12. The government adopts a regulation, let it bring the regulation today, because the crisis situation is that teachers, teachers and teachers increase the coefficient by 6.11%). In addition, let the regulation make up for 20% of our farmers, the less they are paid for the incentives and the regulation provides funds for salaries to workers in Đura Djakovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177844	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177845	Thank you very much. I agree, fellow Vlaovic with you although some have quite a selective memory, they forget that today compared to 2015 and 16. 30 billion kuna more in the budget. That we could have coefficients, or not us, but the government of the Republic of Croatia at the beginning of this year in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs raised. It was not for Prime Minister Plenkovic to raise his fellow diplomats with coefficients in the IHR. So it could have been done overnight, no one even knew about it, but this is why the country suffers 30 days and a few days. So do you see the difference of fellow Vlaovic in that? So it's about giving or giving Prime Minister Plenkovic obviously to his own students, and he won't give 90% of our students, teachers and teachers who have pleaded against and who call them irrational. It would never occur to me to call 100 thousand of our fellow citizens irrational. Well, that's amazing. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177846	We move on to the final word. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Most esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177847	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here, we are talking about the final proposal of the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which regulates certain issues from the part of the HS. From this debate is visible, and I was saying on behalf of the club that according to me HS, means, and that is empty,.../incomprehensible/... legislative body, there are national representatives and no one in Croatia should be from this House, nor is the commission voted together by the HDZ and the SDP Commission of Europeans, nor the League of Champions who was here, the League of Champions are all those who moved out. Neither the government can have support, the government that does not respect its decisions on the commission, which has made a decision to set up a monitoring commission for the Republic of Serbia, to open chapters 23 and 24, and not once in 3 years has the commission met. And Serbia continues to open all chapters, despite the fact that no obligations towards Croatia have been met either on the missing, nor on the issue of the problem of resolving our campers, nor on the resolution of the meaning of the war damage that the major Serb aggression on Croatia has done, and where the current president, member, his party is a member of the European People's Party, and simply, it is not the league of champions who were here, so the champions and those people who have evicted 5% of GDP pay. 2/3 of Croatia is empty, the prime minister has denied, as far as I'm concerned, I cannot support any regulation that controls waste so that it is decided that 20 km from Vrgorec is transported to Sinj, 120 km and to the harm of Vrgorčan and to the damage of the Cetin region, I do not want to vote for this regulation, nor do I wish as a parliamentary representative to give power to this government. Imagine transporting waste 120 km, unclassified waste from one place, from Vrgorec to Sinj, three times more expensive to the Vrgorčan and, behold, they remembered the Sinj and the Cetin region to put off other people's waste, and you won't do that no matter what they have now confirmed, the inspectorate. Well, he won't. I can call the police, I can call my father, it's the right of the people to protect the interests of Vrgorcan and Sinjan and such 27 cases, so I can't give it to that government as a parliamentary representative and, above all, to the prime minister who is more important to the EU than anything else. I cannot give a prime minister who is not authorised and to a government that does not have the strength and application to declare full application of the exclusive economic belt. Turn off the economic belt, protect our territory. I can't give a government that via its satellites in the Parliament, not to discuss the Marrakech Agreement, and now we have a big problem with illegal migrant entry. I can't give to a government that legitimately and legally, legally, overlooked to help our officers who are fighting but who don't have enough number to protect our people's safety in areas where a large number of illegal migrants enter. I cannot give the government that declares the referendum of our citizens invalid and does not allow people to vote and which has not convincingly convinced us parliamentary representatives of 400,000 signatures that there are no 40 signatures. It is also “The People decide” where the Election Law must be amended and the Election Law would certainly not be amended as foreseen, today they have what we have but rather the law would be chosen by a representative with a preferential vote and not by the President of the Parliament to have 300, 400 votes and today would be a key person of Croatian politics rather than preferential votes, however, this government has spit on it. She spat on the referendum, unfortunately this House did not support it at the time, we did not get arguments on the referendum "People decide" and neither for a referendum on the Istanbul Convention. I can't hand over my powers to that government that the people gave me to the preferential votes, I can't fool the 25,000 voters who gave that list, 11,000 to me, that vote, I can't fool them. I can't fool them, and that's why this break, even, this break constitutional is problematic to me because this government is bad-managing Croatia, 5% of GDP funding comes from abroad, and that's what the prime minister denied, that's what the prime minister has denied, here he told me it's not true, it's the pressures. Therefore, the Croatian government cannot get support from me at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177848	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Daria Nekic, for the reasons of the final bill, we will vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177849	The final proposal of the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues in the HS, second reading, P.Z. No. 662. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. I find that, most of the 90 votes for, 2 abstentions and 7 against, we passed the Law on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's power to regulate certain issues in the HS. The SDP Club proposed that HS draw a conclusion which reads as follows: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to make, within 7 days of the date of adoption of this conclusion, other than the regulations provided for by this law, the Regulation amending the rules on the names of jobs and the coefficients of the complexity of public service transactions in such a way as to increase the complexity of jobs for primary and secondary schools by 6.11%)." I ask Secretary of State Darko Nekic to be made aware of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177850	Thank you, Mr. President. The government does not accept the conclusion in this form, namely the content in the conclusion is not the subject of this law within which you have proposed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177851	I am now voting on a proposed conclusion that the government does not accept, please vote. I find that the proposed conclusion did not receive the required number of votes, 24 were for and 69 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177852	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 773 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'd like a representative of the motionary, State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, of the respected Mr. Joseph Bilaver, to give us an additional explanation, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177853	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. The implementation of the current Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport NN 33/06, 38/09, 87/09, 1/11, 80/13 and 56/16 pointed to certain shortcomings in the implementation and need for further processing of the provisions on the preferential transport of passengers and vehicles, in particular the transport of persons with disabilities and children with development difficulties. Moreover, given that the category of passengers whose problem is solved here by the proposed law was only partially and inadequately covered by the provisions of the existing Law on Privileges of Internal Travel NN 97/00 and 101/00, this law will give a new category of passengers covered by the right to use privileged maritime transport. The adoption of this law is particularly important in the work relating to persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, as indicated by representatives of persons with disabilities associations such as the “Bračski pupoli” association and representatives of 30 persons with disabilities who, together with representatives of the Union of persons with disabilities of Croatia, the Institute of Arts, Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and other competent authorities, have participated in the development of this law, I am in this way in the name of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and I thank them. People with physical damage to their lower extremities, 80% or more, of Croatian wartime disabled with 100% physical impairment and persons who have been diagnosed with physical impairment with vision of 100%, deaf-blind persons with 100% physical impairment and persons with disabilities who have been identified in Grade 3 and 4 functional damage, are unable to access the passenger salon because existing ferrys have not been secured or tailored access to those persons in all their premises in the way that it is possible for all other passengers. This led to the unequal situation of this group of passengers. With the right to privileged transport, such a failure shall be made up to them. In addition, children with developmental difficulties and their entourage with the provisions of this law provide privileged transport in public coastal transport especially for children with developmental difficulties who carry out their day-to-day rehabilitation of therapeutic programmes on land. Furthermore, so far legislation has not fully allowed the exercise of control over the application of the right of preferential transport or the use of island cards, therefore changes to the laws which would prevent further abuse of those rights are necessary. We also accept, on behalf of the proposer, amendments to the Committee on Law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177854	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the final bill. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177855	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I've tried to be a little faster than my colleague Bauk. My fellow Secretary of State with an assistant, here's one more point in your explanation, and I'm glad you mentioned the very associations that required these amendments to the law. After 10 years of fighting associations such as "Brač's buds" from Brač we know what they've been through, we know just how much the cost of children with developmental difficulties for everyday therapy on land but I'm glad that here are all the skeptics of such associations that have been and all the promises and you and the minister that the whole problem will be solved not by these changes and additions but by the benefit of all persons with disabilities, would you just once again just confirm whether this is the final solution to their 10-year problem and struggle and will this law remain in force forever in this form? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177856	Thank you, Secretary of State, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177857	Dear Representative Bačić, I thank you for the replica, and I can confirm with satisfaction that this is finally the solution to the law. After this law, the ministry is already working on making regulations that will further edit the details of this law, but all of us in the Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Croatia care that one whole law solves all the problems that have been accumulated. I thank again all those who have made their proposals and participated in the public debate and we have also taken advantage of the opportunity and opportunity to enable in these amendments to the coastal and liner transport agency to be the user and owner of newly built ships that will serve in connecting our islands and whose funding will be from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177858	I would like to thank the Honorable Secretary of State for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Celic, please welcome colleague Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177859	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I'm glad there's an extended group of users of free transportation since it's one of the most vulnerabilities of our society that are often on the sidelines. Of course, thanks to all the organizations that have been active and who have fought for many years, by "Bračci buds" for many years from "Bračci buds", the Alliance of persons with disabilities of Croatia but I would also thank two colleagues here, meaning colleague Ljubici Lukačić, who is indeed in this area an expert and colleague Arsen Bauk who has also fought even though some of us ended up on the list as if we were murderers because we did not want to support, we have advocated the whole solution that this government has now made, I think we should thank colleagues Bauk and our colleague Lukačić here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177860	Thank you, colleague Cellic. It's nice to hear you compliment a colleague. Here you go, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177861	Thank you. Dear Representative Celic, and I join, here I may at first miss thanking Mrs. Lukačić and Mr. Bauku, and it is important to note that in July with the conclusion, the government has actually prejudged this law and already, at this point in time, these vulnerable groups, or special needs groups, have these benefits and we, with this law, are actually doing it finally. I thank everyone again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177862	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, many times commendable, counterpart Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177863	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. To quote the Prime Minister "we should look at the content rather than form", in a formal sense, this is a proposal from the Government, in a substantive sense, this is actually a second reading of the laws that Mr. Celic mentioned and after the secretary of state that I proposed last year, and as you praised me, now you've narrowed me down a lot about what I wanted to say but perhaps better because if this debate ends by 12 o'clock, we'll be able to adopt it today, so I'm going to minimise everything I wanted to say. I am glad that the fight of the "Brother's buds" has brought fruit, I will fulfill my promise when the law comes into force or soon I will have to shave my beard, it will grow again, but the promise is a promise and in this part of the law that is it. As far as the second part of the law is concerned by the abuse of island IDs, I call upon the government once it is because not today just to adopt this, I consider it to be a penalty for the first error of six months. I think for this other offence there is rehabilitation, an age after 3 years, and rehabilitation here too, so I think that punishment is too harsh to think about it. Here's another appeal to my colleagues to finish this debate until the vote to adopt the motion today, so I'm going to act the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177864	Thank you. I hope that other colleagues will be in this tone and short. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177865	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, we have welcomed this law, and everyone has long waited for it, especially those interested in transporting the ship to the mainland or from land to the islands. So I'm going to cut down on everything I've been meaning to say, and I'm going to thank you on this occasion for the secretary of state and for all of you in the ministry who have had a very great understanding to solve this big problem. Why do I say big? In fact, here's a thank you to my colleague, Bauku, he in some way had the will and desire to solve the problem of transporting people with disabilities, but as I said before, this law was flawed and we couldn't accept it. Why am I missing? You will see in the amendments article. 47. How many persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties are listed here, this provision was the only possible and to cover all those who really need such transportation. I am extremely pleased that those living on land will also be able to use this transport because many of them are going to rehab and to the islands, so we could not allow discrimination between the disabled. As the secretary of state said, in July of this year, the government reached a conclusion to bridge this time of law-making, and I believe that many were satisfied and I expect that both counterpart Bauk and now will fulfill his promise. What I'd like to warn you, Secretary of State, and when I make the rules, I'd ask that we be careful what we do because now that Jadrolini has found evidence to prove who the person in this article is, I don't think it's the happiest. So here's when we rule it out, I guess there won't be any more problems. The important thing is to say that all the kids in the country will be entitled to it because it... but those who go to the mainland, only with grades 3 and 4, who go to the islands, and all children can go to the mainland as long as it takes to comply with their health, schooling obligations, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here it is, I think this is a good solution, the HDZ Club will support this law. I believe it will now finally be both complete and to the satisfaction of all persons with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177866	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ljubica Lukacic, for this debate. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives MOST-independent lists of respected colleagues, Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177867	Thank you very much. I'll be as short as I can to get this very important law to vote today. I'd just like to say for a moment that I'd like to commend here. those who were the first to have problems with the i.e. Warned of this injustice against children with developmental difficulties. As for the transport law, liner and coastal transport, meaning "Brother's buds" of course, colleague Bauk who initiated it, all of which, in this case and all those who understood this problem, unfortunately took a little longer, but I expect here this debate will end and that finally our children who exercise these rights will have difficulties in developing, of course there and the costs are huge, that we should vote this out and finally correct this great injustice against those children. The MOST Club will accept this law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177868	Thank you. We move to individual debates, a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, is not present. Dear colleague Ivan Celic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177869	Thank you, Vice President. In light of the discussions of colleagues who had discussed before, I think it is good that today we have come to an amendment to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. This is a major contribution to the better quality of life of people with disabilities who are many times marginalized and stegmatized, this is the way to common forces when it comes to certain topics that have an extra-party character, we can do a lot of things and simply the ministry has a lot of obligations but this has been really, for 10 years it has been too long to wait and then the initiative of colleagues Bauka has definitely contributed to these processes being accelerated and we need to come to a final debate and hopefully vote on this topic and that is no reason to stop and stop at promoting the rights of persons with disabilities who have different opportunities and should have equal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177870	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177871	Coliga Celić, of course, is excellent that this has happened and I believe that until now such a law has not been passed is the failure of all previous governments and that the most vulnerable groups are often not at the centre of the attention of those who decide and this opportunity would only draw attention to another listener and this is the island of Lastova which has been the most affected by the terror of the former Yugoslav army where life has been banned there for decades and now has been disabled for 30 years by normal education for young and children. I still can't go from Lastov to high school in Korčula and I would like to ask you to consider the special transport of Lastovo-Korčula for children who want to go to high school because it is the minimum necessary for those children. While the Italians were under the occupation of Lastovo, they had a regular Italian-Lastovo line every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177872	Thank you. Answer, fellow Cellic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177873	As a person coming from Dubrovnik-Neretva County, I know that from the beginning of this year the daily line of Lastovo-Dubrovnik has been introduced, but I agree with you and I support your proposal that both the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure must make additional efforts to enable us to talk about people with disabilities, so it is the situation that OS Lastovo, children who finish OS Lastovo when they go to high school, have to travel, they are often forced to live outside Lastova, whether in Split, whether in Korčula or Dubrovnik most often and certainly if a special programme were made possible, that children live with their parents and their families and while attending high school, I think that this way they would contribute to demographic measures on distant islands like Lastov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177874	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the CNS, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177875	Thank you, dear Vice President. I mean, just for a little while. As for the amendment and addition of the Law in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, so what we had a few months ago was a big media noise about how people with disabilities, damages, etc. would not be entitled to free transport. Then it is said that what we have accepted will be settled and today we here for this very reason are solving something that may have been solved in 5 months, I agree that it may have been necessary earlier and every day has been missed but it should have been solved 12 years ago because it is not from yesterday a problem, it is a problem that for no reason that is not clear to me, has not been solved long, long years. What's important is when we get rid of the shootings, why, who, who, who's to blame, why not us, they're not excuses, they're not the reasons, that someone didn't do when he could, so now we're going to get rid of the problems, no, we need to solve them right now and what they can say for the HNS club, that it's finally happening. We have then accepted the explanation of our partners that this will be systematically systematically and completely resolved, not in a word, perhaps it should have come before, but I am glad that this is in an emergency procedure because it is precisely from the transitional provisions that this problem is being solved immediately. What is certainly good is that we complement people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties and escorts of people with disabilities and children with developmental disabilities. So we've covered everything completely and I think that we've solved this part, and there's also the intended and certain resources for 2019 and in the projection of the 2020 and 2021 budget, so it has to be done that way and it has to be, as I believe in the final line with the budget itself and envisaged, so there are more documents, there are more reasons to consider and I'm glad to say, of course the HNS Club will accept this, and I'm glad we're finally solving some problem that hasn't been taken into account since 5 months ago. It's long, long years, maybe it should have been sooner but the important thing is that it's now solved and that one really, one social aspect, one human aspect is finally recognized and accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177876	I thank my colleagues Curaju. Before continuing at the gallery we were joined by students and students as well as professors and professors of the crafts school from Opatija, I welcome you and enjoy your stay in the Croatian Parliament. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Secretary of State Joseph Bilaver, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177877	... Once again, before the final presentation, Mr. Maric and Celic responded that talks were already being held between the mayors of the island of Korčula and the mayor and the owner of Lastov with the Coastal and Linear Agency, we are aware of this problem and I believe that we will find a solution to this situation very quickly. [[Specially enabled.]] I would like to thank all those of you who have come forward, and I will briefly repeat the most important provisions of the law. The proposal for a law will allow the exercise of the right to free maritime transport to sensitive categories of our society and to persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties that have so far not been fully covered by any category of passengers who have been granted privileged transport under the provisions of the existing law. Following the above, the implementation of this draft law achieves an increase in mobility, as it has given people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties due to their specific needs, as users of public maritime transport services the status of privileged users. The conditions and arrangements for the exercise of the right to transport shall be as for other categories laid down in the Regulation on the conditions and manner of the exercise of the right of preferential transport on lines in public maritime transport. In this respect, the Regulation will also regulate the number of free departures per week, i.e. at an annual level at which persons resident on the island will have the right, or persons who do not have an island residence, to ensure that they meet their needs in an appropriate manner. The law will allow public transport on state lines, dedicated to built ships owned by coastal liner transport agencies, maritime transport which could be built as such with the financial support of EU funds. The new possibility of carrying out liner transport on state lines with a dedicated ship owned by agencies will achieve better, more modern and safer transport in line with modern achievements in shipbuilding and safety in maritime transport. This law also regulates infringements which would apply in the event of abuse of the right to preferential transport, thus allowing for better exercise of control over the use of the right of preferential transport. For the implementation of the existing law, financial resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia have been provided on the basis of support for the provision of public coastal maritime transport services totalling 314 million kuna for 2019, the evaluation of the necessary annual resources for the implementation of the existing law in 2020 is planned amounting to 329 million kuna and 2021 million kuna. The estimated financial resources that will be necessary for the implementation of this law in 2020 and 2021 amount to 10 million kuna and will be secured within the allocation of expenditure limits of the financial plan of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure. Once again in the end, I thank all of you and all those who are not here today, who have helped make this law and congratulate everyone on unity when we work together for the benefit of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177878	Thank you. We have a replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here's your colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Since we, that this debate will end before we can pass the law, I would only like to mention in this remaining 50 seconds one group of citizens that I believe should also in some way be given preferential transportation, as regards those of our fellow citizens who, even though they have a place on the mainland, are bound to the island. So someone who 50 or 60 times a year goes to the island should also, after a certain number of trips should get the right to a privileged transport as well as the islanders because after 20 trips a year or after 15 or after 30. It doesn't matter. 30 trips a year, that's 3 times, 2.5 times a month. So by introducing some kind of showing card or prepaid card, they would actually be allowed to transport at a cheaper price in the second half of the year because they clearly crossed a certain number of trips. I'm talking about fellow citizens who live on land because they're also paying into the budget from which this is all funded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177880	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank another Secretary of State, respected Josip Biliver of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and Head of the Department, Ivo Kustic Komlinović, for the reasons of this final bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I shall set a recess until 12 p.m. when we will continue to declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177881	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 773. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee, the proposing representative accepted the amendments, and they became an integral part of the final draft of the law. I am voting on the final proposal of this law, please vote. I find that 99 votes were unanimously passed for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport. And we're going to the last, last point we're voting on. Report of the mandate-immunity commission on the request to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damjan Vucelic, representative at HS, please the president of the mandate-immunity commission, Mr Tušek, to submit a report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177883	Thank you, well-respected President HS, colleagues and colleagues, the mandate-immunity commission of HS discussed at the 53rd session held on 28 November 2019. The request of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marina Leka from Zagreb and Renate Curic from Sesvet is addressed to the president of HS for granting approval for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Damjan Vucelic, a representative in HS for the criminal offence of the libel from art. 149.St. 1st and 2nd. Penalty law. Damjan Vucelic is a representative of the 9th convocation of HS, and based on art. In the first century C.E., the first century B.C.E., the second century B.C.E., the second century B.C.E., the second century B.C.E. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and The Rules of Procedure of the HS shall have the immunity until the term of office has ceased, and without the decision of the HS against it, it shall not be possible to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings. The Commission took note of the private action brought against Damen Vucelic for which it was requested to grant authorisation for the initiation of the criminal proceedings and claimed that it was his expressed opinion in HS at the meeting held on 11 October 2019. Because it's an art. C.E. 76.C. 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia stipulates that a representative cannot be called to criminal responsibility, detained or punished for an opinion expressed or vote in HS, the Commission considers that the request is unfounded. In particular, in the case of immunity which protects a representative from criminal liability for acts which he commits as a representative within the representative body. The MIP is based on an article. C.E. 76.C. 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 116 and 166. The Rules of Procedure of the HS unanimously with 5 votes to propose the adoption of the next conclusion. Application for authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against representative Damjan Vucelic on the private suit of attorneys of private prosecutors Marina Leka from Zagreb and Renate Čuić from Sesveda, which was filed on 12 November 2019 to the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the criminal offence of the libel referred to in Articles 149(1) and 2. In accordance with Article 76(2) of the Penal Code, The Republic of Croatia is unfounded. I don't want to explain it any further, but I think the situation is completely more or less clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177884	I'm opening a debate. Be my guest, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177885	I thank Mr. President for opening the debate, so I'm going to risk getting a warning just to find out that in our conclusion for these coefficients of colleagues from the HNS, they didn't vote for, or against, or abstention, and I'm telling them that it's time to have a position on this and that this playing bunker and hiding behind the prime minister and minister coalition should end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177886	Comrade Bauk, this was very incorrect, you know that yourself and I'm warning you that. Comrade Maras, come in. You're on your way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177887	Thank you very much. Mr. President, you can give me this light to see how we stand. Thank you very much. So colleagues and colleagues and colleagues, I am glad that here we can open a debate here on the Mandate-Immunity Commission which refused to give consent on the basis of a statement of opinion suit in the Croatian Parliament, which I think is correct. It is prescribed in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and we must never step down from that. So MPs in this House must be able to say what they think, stand up for the attitudes that our fellow citizens have chosen here in the Croatian Parliament and we will not give up on that. For this reason, I must point out once again that under the threat of any sanctions I will have my views, as Mr. Vucelic has his views and continues to speak here and I am glad that so many of you here are so many colleagues from HDZ because I haven't seen you in the past days and I believe you don't know what I've been saying these past days, and it's a shame that the whole of Croatia is blocked, and you're laughing. Here I am looking at Mr. Tolusic, it's funny to everyone, our kids aren't going to school, the Prime Minister's coefficients can't be given, and you're laughing here. And that's what Croatian citizens see and that's why Croatian citizens are unhappy and that's why HDZ is sending threats, and this is what I've now come up with because of the situation around Mr Vucelic. Look at today's morning list, according to a HDZ source that those who speak on behalf of Croatian citizens in this assembly will eventually pay the price. He is threatened, Plenkovic threatens lawmakers with anonymous information in the morning list that gives support to teachers in their fair fight to fight for greater coefficients. And I couldn't wait to tell you all how many of you there are here. What you are doing from this country is something that is inadmissible, which should be opposed in all possible ways, the blocked country cannot live normally and it is all because of Plenkovic and HDZ. Come and solve your problem by Monday and let us live normally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177888	You've caused two replicas. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177889	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So, it's hard not to take away the impression of that hypocrisy in the SDP, and Mr. Maras forgot while the minister was Mr. Jovanovic, and the deputy was Mrs. Glasovac, then Mr. Jovanovic bought luxury cars, cut right off teachers, cut off Santas, abolished regressions, and when teachers asked him why he was doing it, he said that I should be driving to work. So you forget the things you did and it is not correct to use it here in the Croatian Parliament in this situation which is in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177890	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177891	Thank you very much. I won't answer you the way you expect me to mention the robberies, the FIMI media, the thefts you've been doing. I don't want to talk about it. Look, we live in 2019, it's almost 2020. We have a problem, our kids are home for a month, it's not funny, solve the problem. Give the people who deserve it and let us live our lives normally. I want you to solve the problem, I don't want this to continue, I want the children to go to school on Monday, if that's what Prime Minister Plenkovic wants, as he said today, to meet the requirements of teachers and teachers and non-teaching staff. 90% of people aren't irrational, they're looking for what they're entitled to, if they're underrated to give them that right. If you could give it to the MVP, give it to teachers and teachers. The world won't collapse. Let us live our lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177892	Thank you. Second replica of colleague Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177893	Thank you, colleague Maras, for stopping at my protection, I would just like to point out to you and answer your question this is one of the standard pressures and threats from HEP, the state HNS company, I read a letter from HEP worker at the meeting in October, and immediately came a reply from HEP with a private lawsuit against me about what I said here, I just want to tell HEP now, but also the citizens that neither I, nor my colleagues will stand in the detection and investigation of crime, thieving and nepotism that is happening in state firms. Here, thank you, team from HEP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177894	Here's a colleague of Maras's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177895	Thank you very much. Mr. Vucelic, you are threatened and I think it is not normal to threaten in the Croatian Parliament representatives for a speech in which they defend the interests of their voters. If I am willing to go to prison for the spoken word in the Croatian Parliament, I am prepared to do everything that will help our people and those who chose me here to be protected. I'm not afraid of HDZ, I'm not afraid of anonymous HDZ sources that threaten MPs to arrest them. You're not gonna make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177896	We will now report to my colleague Bulj, just this debate I would like to comment on, I am now hoping that my colleagues and colleagues from the Parliament will protect our very colleague Maras from ending up in prison with their votes when they refuse this request for criminal proceedings against counterpart Vucelic. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177897	Thank you very much. I would say very briefly that private lawsuits of course that the tribunal refuses and that the freedom of speech of parliamentary representatives, MPs whom the people have chosen must be maximum, that is the Constitution prescribed. However, I would say briefly in this case to all those who have supported the Rules of Procedure that there are reduced rights of parliamentary speech, the parliamentary representatives whom the people have chosen. And it was voted together that you knew gentlemen and the SDP of this Rules of Procedure and HDZ. So I'm asking the question, why will this council be remembered? Because of the reduction in the right of Parliament's representatives to speak to the new Rules of Procedure, where often because of pointless situations where a man has said his position or a abolished replica, suspended from the break, the number has been reduced, received essentially reminders and is often thrown out because of a spoken attitude. Much greater freedoms have been in the past term until this new Rules of Procedure. I repeat, we must not reduce the rights of speech acquired, and this call will be remembered by Mr. President Jandrokovic with a joint vote by both the HDZ and the SDP on the reduction of the right of parliamentary representatives' speech. We choose to choose freedom of speech, freedom of writing, freedom of mind in the Republic of Croatia do not shrink, if it is made in the Parliament you know what is the message for our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177898	They'll remember people for what and for who, so everyone will look out of their corners. But let's go to the replicas, my colleague Maras, you're the first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177899	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you discuss here a lot and the debates are sometimes good, sometimes a little less, sometimes you get ready, sometimes you get a little less prepared, but still people hear you. They know the people of the Dalmatian Fire that Bull is here to represent their views. And it's unfortunate, I agree with you, these standards that HDZ is trying to introduce to the Croatian Parliament is that as little is said, that there are no people here who represent the majority. I'm telling you empty chairs, the last two, three days nowhere, come squeezed and went home today. And in fact, the Croatian Parliament should be I would say the place of the ultimate Croatian democracy where the attitudes of bras and decisions are made. And on that side, let's send a common message to return the dignity of teachers and raise the coefficients. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177900	Answer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177901	Thank you very much. He whom the citizens have chosen and whom the citizens pay for representing them have an obligation in this House to speak. Parliament is a pay phone, not what they write to you now either to Plenkovic or to welcome Milanovic or anyone, so you say it and repeat it. Parliamentarians are representatives of the people and they must speak in the interest of the people and in the interest of their views and not be reduced to their right of speech. And that's why fellow Maras is more than embarrassing that this meeting will be remembered, which has reduced the business rights of speech to the parliamentary deputies where he voted for it and your SDP along with HDZ, and that's bad about freedom of speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177902	Now it's Comrade Bauk's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177903	I believe, Mr Bulj, that the business changes we really supported after some of our proposals contributed to the quality of the debate in the Croatian Parliament, made it possible for the opposition to put some topics on the agenda that we did not have before. And these rights that are slightly reduced are used only by you and fellow Maras. My colleague Maras fits in and no longer makes that kind of remark, and she comes down to the following, you can't call 25 times now before I, who reported the individual debate, speak once. Therefore, for each item of the agenda you have 28 minutes to discuss, not 33, 15 minutes on behalf of the club, 10 minutes individually, 3 replicas per minute it is 28 and 5 minutes final. If at some point you can't say your position at 33 minutes then you should think about getting a little bit of a different discourse on politics. Therefore, I do not accept that we have participated in a reduction in the rights of MPs, and what sometimes the president abuses his rights in the Rules of Procedure would be without these changes. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177904	So, of all people, the president is the worst. That's good. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177905	Comrade Bauk, that you have voted in favour of reducing your rights along with HDZ in this term... the right to speak to parliamentary deputies. It is my right as Parliament's representative to propose legal amendments, amendments to laws and amendments, amendments and that I do, that's my right. And voters will say whether it was good or bad, as it was for you. However, it is a fact that in this term with the Rules of Procedure, it is a reduction of the right of speech where parliamentarians do not have the opportunity to warn themselves of any problem from this pay phone during the breaks that were held in the morning and whenever the problem was before. Now I can only do it once. Once, through the club's point of view. They used to be able to warn through the breaks about all the anomalies, everything that's good is all that's bad and you took away the right of speech. Limit the right of speech, the right of replicas to clubs, limit the number of rights to parliamentary deputies, and the people pay us that we work as we should work and protect.../incomprehensible... as we speak. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177906	Comrade Bulj, thank you. So you have 1 minute now and if you speak more than 1 minute you've broken the rules, then what I'm taking your word for is not taking away your freedom, it's fighting for the freedom of everyone else sitting here. So your freedom goes to the level until you start endangering the others. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177907	You hurt Article 238 because of that second, you know that when I was the case, when it was the Wolf's case, you gave a warning and you pulled it out.../incomprehensible/... against the Rules of Procedure, when it was renting this assembly, and you didn't have the opportunity at all to let me say it at all, you gave me notices in advance, counter-business and you banned me from being expelled. And I don't know why you're nervous. In your club, and you know and you're aware that exactly what you and Andrej Plenkovic are writing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177908	Come on, thank you very much, thank you very much. Here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague Grumo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177909	Dear President, I would ask you to allow your colleague Bulju to use means your rights to calm these nervous ones who come on Fridays just to vote out Kuštević and this team around him, to calm down and let those of us who work here all week long do our job.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177910	A fellow Thunderbolt, now that you call one MP and then you blink there, it doesn't see the camera, but I see it so I can say it was. So, you called one, and why didn't you call people from your club, why didn't you call people from the SDP, why didn't you call people from other parties? Well, it's not right, my people, so it's wrong, so be fair to each other. If you call one man, and he may have missed the other day, and yours are gone, so what's it going to turn out to be, now let's say that Boric sitting here all the time and calling someone of yours. So don't be like that, it's not fair, it's just not fair. Come on, now, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177911	Dear President, you intervened entirely, so I don't know you didn't realize what I said. I did not call on Mr Kuštević that he is not here or is there, but that now the team is protesting what their colleague Bulja is saying and they are in a hurry to vote as soon as possible. [[I did, I did.]] I'm having this intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177912	Come on, fellow Boric, you're up now with the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177913	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here I just wanted to go through the replica and really express my regret that my colleague Bulj failed to make all of his views that he had in mind. I think he's been over 2,000 calls, if not more than this one in this assembly. He managed to hand gifts to everyone who came here in the assembly he did it neatly and, of course, after all, there goes the story of him having no freedom of speech and that he should be protected. But if they don't support the SDP strike and everything they're saying, I'm just going to warn them about what Mrs. Glasovac said a few years ago on the subject of the strike when she was evicted from the ministry. She says, I'm not strikein', you can let me...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177914	Wait a minute, just a little fellow Boric, so all the time he's talking off topic and I'm back on the subject, you from your club of representatives, and now it happens that one sentence out of the topic turns a representative of the second club and now you want me to intervene. Find a way to get back to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177915	Here, I'll find a way, and you just let me read it, because it hurts them, they know what they said. I'll just read that they know about the Croatian public. I don't strike because I think I'm paid to work and be available to children and their parents. Children's place is in school, and with the request of union leaders to raise salaries of 4% cca 200 kuna cannot be And they will not restore dignity to the enlighteners. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] She wrote Mrs. Voter on her facebook profile. These are the gentlemen who take care of today...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177916	Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177917	Comrade Boric, I know that you count what I say and how much I say, but no one will write me what I will say because mine is not a replacement mandate like yours, you must be good, you must be what your colleague Bačić wrote to you, colleague Jandroković, Andrej Plenkovic. I've been chosen by the people with a large number of votes to fight here and to speak and I'm against taking away the right word, and you have to be good because that chance is not for the government to come back here Oleg Butkovic you no longer have a mandate, you, you have to listen, I understand you. But you can't take away from me the right to speak and report that I am willing and what my will is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which you have reduced solely because you had a problem with what I was active and that is why you have changed this which you have changed the Rules of Procedure. And that's what the people see. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177918	Okay. Now we have a colleague of the Stazics, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177919	Comrade Bulj, you are attacking here SDP and HDZ because they have changed the Rules of Procedure and have actually made it possible to do some normal work in this assembly, so that at least clubs can, without replication, make their views known to people what clubs think. You resent the SDP and HDZ, you who have twice given HDZ authority, deceived your electoral body, promised, signed with the notary that you would not go with anyone and today in that same government with HDZ that Plenkovic did not kick you out, and he kicked you rightly because you had no idea what the parliamentary majority was and how you should behave in the government. You've had enough of both God and the devil.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177920	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177921	If my colleague Stazić, we were at least honest, we left the government when the tribalo, we went to extraordinary elections, and we didn't take summers, you used privileges for 7 kunas, you flew to Brijuni for 7 kunas, and you introduced a riot into this assembly, you, you reduced the rights of speech because you lost the domination of both HDZ and SDP because you wanted to be both a common donor and a Constitutional Court you named and everything that matters in the Republic, you and Mr. Vladimir Seks, because you were from the same incubator, you and him. And don't touch me again because you have no right to do it this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177922	Comrades and colleagues, just a little please, we will end up without a quorum, and we must make a decision to protect our parliamentary representative so that he can speak what he thinks is right, so I would appeal to you to bring the debate to an end now and declare that decision. Are you still contacting your colleagues? Here's a colleague of the Voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177923	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of this report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, we are also very often discussing the removal of immunity related to various lawsuits and slanders, and so here at the moment, my colleague, Boric, is actually pleased to have opened one topic and come out of the trenches. Yesterday, a whole day under the counter, a statement from me from 2015 took place, where I did not take part in a waker strike that was held at the time. And that's right, that's right. I'll just remind and read a quote, so almost my entire school didn't participate in the strike, I'll quote my teacher, it was September 2015 my principal, "Franjo Petrić High School worked normally yesterday because there was no strike at this school. We learned from Director Blanke Pedišić that only 4 teachers out of 44 are on strike, and the director who was in the union herself claims that the strike was not well prepared." So if you wanted to point out that all strikes against the SDP government, while sitting and protecting its dignity, you missed it. Secondly, if it wasn't like this, I must remind you that in 2015, a few months before this strike, I resigned as assistant minister, I didn't take 6+6, six months full, six months' pay, but returned to the education salary. Since I was a member of the government who a few months ago because of the robbed country had to cut off the rights of teachers, teachers, and privileged pensions to parliamentarians, I think my behavior would have been a few months later if nothing else were to be hypocritical. So I'm glad you're not making any more noises about that article and my statement. I stand by the fact that I said as much as today and today when the funds have full heart support the educators in their efforts now that when the state is doing better, as they were, in time, the first to bear the burden of the crisis, that today, when it goes better, they will be the first to be taken away from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177924	Comrade Maras, you've reached out to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177925	Thank you very much. My colleague Glasovac, I don't know what he would call it at all, is madness prevailing in some of the heads that decide, since they are worthy of calling 90% of the people who went out for the protest, so it's about tens of thousands of people who educate our children and who help them in their education to call them and say they've crossed the line of irrational. That's what we can't let. So these people are fighting and they're feeling something. The reason why that feeling can be like this or something, but we have to solve this problem, and we have to give these people support. They are not irrational, nor are those who now appear in the media inspired by Plenkovic, who explain it too, these people have to fight for themselves and we need to give them full support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177926	Thank you. Now let's have another debate individual, colleague Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177927	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll talk about the subject, and the topic is that a state-owned company is suing a representative for something he said in the Croatian Parliament. I think the director of this company should be replaced immediately for this, but that's the government thing as well as the HRT that Caine sued about ten years ago. Because if the state or government is going to sponsor the company's political leadership that sues MPs in the Croatian Parliament, then it is no longer the company's problem but the government's problem. I propose to the ruling majority's deputies to reject this request by the Mandate-Immunity Commission or to relieve the director of HEP or at least invite him to withdraw the suit because the vote would be to protect Mr. Vucelic from a state-owned lawsuit by the government, the state owned it hypocritically. So, Mr. President of the Parliament, use your influence that the state firm withdraws the lawsuit against MPs in the Croatian Parliament because of the spoken word in the Croatian Parliament because it protects the Constitution. And that is why I will vote against the request of the Mandate-Immunity Commission if the ruling vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177928	And now I don't know if I'm reading wrong, but I see that they're private prosecutors. They are not sued by HEP, but sued by private prosecutors Marina Leko and Renata Curic. I mean, let's not lead our own debates astray and accuse a man who has nothing to do with it. So, my colleagues and colleagues, I really think we're exaggerating a little bit in manipulation, and that's no longer the freedom that my colleague Bulj was talking about. Is there a need for replicas since the theme is a little missed? A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177929	I'm a colleague of Bauk's. Laugh at Boric, laugh at him, laugh at Kalmeti while you were wearing videos that were never played on TV, so laugh at him. Mr. Bauk, I'd like to warn you of a little more dangerous pressure that HDZ is running anonymously through the media and today it's published in the Morning List. They warned all MPs in the Croatian Parliament that they would pay the price if they support a protest of education. If they have the courage of these HDZ giants to say it by name and name, don't hide behind anonymous sources, let them say, sometimes those brave boys get out in the sun in public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177930	Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177931	Thank you. Mr. President, I should actually answer you, I heard about the information about HEP from Mr. Vucelic, so you all heard. And if he deceived me, then I'll have to apologize, it's after all, and it's kind of okay with the dignity of this Parliament and me personally, but I'm saying it's said by Mr. Vucelic. That's what you've all heard, no, no, that's what you've all heard. So it's no problem for me to apologize, because in that sense it is, after all, logical. But still this part of the HRT remains. They sued and sued the MP and sued some of their employees. So then I'll still vote for this report after you've convinced me I should. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177932	I'm kind of used to you reading materials anyway, you're careful and precise. ... Here, I'm taking your notice. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Stazic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177933	Well, look at your colleague Bauk. Advocacy against prosecution is protected, and we will protect our colleague today. But they are not protected, and they are also president of the Parliament as representative of the parliamentary majority. They are not protected from civil persecution, from civil litigation, from the fate of suffering mental pain because of what they said here in the assembly behind this pay phone. Our colleague Caine, he was sued and prosecuted by HRT for what he said here. Fortunately, the court has freed him. But I think that we should think about starting a legislative initiative to protect the right of speech to disable those who are persecuting MPs, now someone through prosecution, someone through civil litigation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177934	Here's your answer, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177935	During my time as minister of the administration, I proposed such a provision and the Parliament accepted it in the Law on Local Self-Government where local self-government council members are said to be much more protected than representatives in the Croatian Parliament that they cannot in any way be held accountable for what was presented at the session of the representative body. I know the case that because of the position of the MOST club, the whole club had to go to court because they did not respond to the position of the MOST club. And in that sense, I believe, and I hope that in such a possible legal matter, the Constitutional Court would rule that this immunity, because of the spoken word in the House, does not protect the representatives and from these civil suits, but we are waiting for the first thing, to come to the Constitutional Court and then to be tested if the law does not change and it does not specify in the Law on the Rights of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177936	Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177937	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bauk aside for missing completely as far as the prosecutor's concerned, so he's neither a state firm nor a board president. But I don't agree with you on the scale. I also advocate that if the president of the HEP administration has the right to sue him, and if he slanders him, if falsely accused him, he has the right to protect himself. I'd go even one step further, I'd lift any parliamentary representative's immunity, every one. Because I don't see what parliamentary immunity is, which the council representative gets in public by falsely slandering someone else and then bravely hiding behind the parliamentary immunity. I'm against it, and I don't even know why we're doing this. Every politician, every official, every Croatian citizen has a responsibility to himself and then choose to have a responsibility to others rather than to keep to himself, to lie to others and ask for protection by the hands of parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177938	My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177939	Mr. President of the HDZ Club, I'll consider whether I'm surprised by your position and I don't know if it's your personal opinion or whether it's the party's position. Because when I had that problem 10 years ago, then that's what I said, sir, that's when Mr. Shakespeare took over and said, "We'll either speak freely or we'll all be quiet." I know that fellow Maras will certainly not be silent, I will have to be more careful but the freedom of expression of the people who have been elected by the citizens is a greater value protected by the Constitution and I am not for that to change. The one who has the guts to say something in the Parliament and has no nerve to say it outside the Parliament where he is not protected by immunity is a coward. But the Parliament should be able to speak freely and the citizens will assess whether he is a coward if he has no nerve to say it outside the Parliament. I am not to change this provision of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177940	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177941	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I may say something different and agree with my colleague Bačić. Because if you remember the 7th convocation, I remember it very well from the other side of the assembly so much lies and half-information and falsely radiated a colleague that it might be convenient if we could sue all those people who said it and individuals, too. Because I'm great at these double rules, you know, on the one hand, the prime minister is threatening, or the prime minister, someone behind the prime minister is threatening the MPs when they speak and speak and support what they think and that they should be supported, it's on the one hand. And on the other hand, why sue them who gets here, that we don't even have the right to speak here? Well, it's best if we all keep our mouths shut like fellow Shakespeare said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177942	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177943	Thank you. We understand what you said and I understand your dilemmas, but for the freedom of speech in this House, I am prepared to suffer insults and slanders in the hall and only ask the one who out of the saying to speak outside if he stands behind them, that they may sue him. If he does it outside then we come into civil proceedings, if he doesn't, I'll consider it a silent confession that neither he stands nor she, that neither he nor she is behind what they said in the Parliament. And I'm going to repeat that in a political struggle, first of all, he knows it's slander and insult and he doesn't want to say it outside the hall. And that's why, it's a greater value that the Constitution protects freedom of speech in this Chamber than what we're going to be worth a little now or we won't be offended and that's what needs to be said. Thank you. And as for this, as far as HEP's concerned, once again, the president of HEP's administration as a private person can but not on behalf of HEP and not on account of HEP, but that's the subject now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177944	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177945	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Bauk, freedom of speech is the most important but important point at which a democratic society rests. Unfortunately, freedom of speech has been compromised in Croatia, and that is a fact. If I'm not mistaken on an island that's neighbouring, yours, a man has been arrested for calling the Prime Minister. It's totally unacceptable. In this House, 8 years ago, HDZ removed his immunity because of a verbal delinquent because he dared to call HDZ a criminal organisation for which the note is being brought today, but not because of Zeljko Jovanovic, but because of the indictment of USKOK for a whole series of crimes. Today, I didn't think we were going to discuss this, but we have to because freedom of speech and guarantee that in this House we will say [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] is the foundation of our democracy. [[Intruder President: Thank you colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177946	Comrade Bauk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177947	Thank you. Mr. President, I'm sure you'll agree that after my individual debate, we have begun to discuss the metrics. And the statement by colleagues Bačić shows that we were supposed to discuss the metrics and everything was cooked by Boric when he mentioned Sabina but now it doesn't matter. So I'll do it again and I'll repeat, first, put these points on Thursday nights so there won't be a debate like this. Secondly, the freedom of speech in this House must be above the rights of the individual to whom it applies and the one who is able to say something here because he is protected by immunity and is not able to do so outside where he is not protected by immunity, we need all of us, whether it's either our party or your party in the middle to call it a coward. Because that is exactly the kind of thing that destroys the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. If someone abuses their immunity as an agent next time they say something, they should be completely irrelevant and we should all ignore it, or if he realizes he's wrong, let him apologize, so, okay, here's my apology. But as far as freedom of speech is concerned, it is still above whether we will be offended, slandered or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177948	An individual debate, my colleague Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177949	Thank you, Mr. President, I didn't mean to answer for the debate, but I think it's important to speak especially after this step by fellow Bacic about freedom of speech. In fact, now I thought it was funny what fellow Maras was saying that the government would lock us up because of what we're saying, that we'd suffer some sanctions and then the president of the HDZ club practically, I'd say the 3rd or 4th HDZ man in the state announces that we might consider abolishing parliamentary immunity about freedom of spoken word. I have a series of civil lawsuits about what I said here in the Croatian Assembly, but I'm not some kind of coward who speaks one here in the assembly and outside the assembly otherwise. I've been doing interviews for which I've been announced by Vladimir Shakespeare's bitter moments. I have claimed that the State Judicial Council is a source of corruption, and behind that I stand here in the Croatian Assembly and outside the Assembly and in my apartment in Metkovic and here in the apartment in Zagreb and anywhere in Croatia. Because of that statement, Jutarnji List was sued, meaning because I gave the interview, so I said no to the journalist who interviewed me and the Cambj court sued Jutarnji List and the Jutarnji List lost that lawsuit which is quite logical because Judge Cambj, means a member of the State Judiciary Council who decides on the fate of the judge who decided in the case. I've been announced that all judges of the DSV will raise the meaning of the lawsuit against me, I expect it, although I can look forward to it because it is certain that I will lose them without everything there is, but I don't have much, I don't have as a colleague Kuščević or some HDZ MPs, I don't know whether judges will be able to get paid, but this certainly shows what HDZ's position on freedom of speech is. Freedom of speech is the cornerstone of all freedoms and if it is a threat to the question is whether we can talk more about Croatia as a democratic state. These are the alarming words of the first man of the HDZ club. None of us are asking us to be a colleague of Bacic's, I certainly wouldn't perform like this in public if I was afraid of someone or looking for your protection. And now that we've opened this issue, I'm going to open up another topic for which I'm going to get a series of lawsuits. So, like this, I have to read it, we had a FIMI-MEDIA case, dear colleagues from HDZ. The last few months people have been coming to me and asking me to warn the new FIMI-MEDIA HDZ, I didn't want to go public until I got confirmations from multiple sides, but as it stands one house, a PR agency called the Real Group gets a series of competitions. So in December, they're preparing a two-year tender for a 16 million kuna deal, and it's already known that they're going to get it, the paperwork they've made. As far as history itself is concerned, they have received a tender from the Ministry of Economy for 8 million 999 thousand allegedly a combination of Ferenčak Majher, HGK also without obtaining and working means and hiring that company, Podravka and Croatia airlines also the companies that have received the Real Group, in which it is publicly difficult to verify the data on consumption, HTZ are doing county tourist communities in large amounts that do not go to public procurement through Star digital company which owns the same name registered in Switzerland, HEP has received the latest meanings of the last few competitions also smartly by asking competitions and what it is for, they mean to give a lower offer, get a tender, but the other ones who did not apply, so they do not know that there will be a continuation of the project itself, and therefore they are doing it well to raise the question whether big, big money. So why am I applying this example now? Let me show you that we Parliamentarians of Mr. Bačić are not like ordinary people because ordinary people are begging us who are afraid to warn us of certain anomalies in society and my task if I will personally answer to it. What I'm saying is I'm putting into quotes, let's check it out, but we people send this and warn me, and now this Real Group can sue me for it, let's see how many competitions this Real Group has won, as much as in public companies, in tourist communities, in companies connected to the state, and that's there and who's connected with this company, so you don't get a new Media firm, maybe this is good for you as a party to prevent it, so it goes one way, investigate, see, if that's the job of a parliamentary representative, and it can't mean the freedom of speech of a parliamentary representative, I've given you one example to show you what our mission is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177950	Let's go now with the replicas, yes, colleague Bulj, before he was or was, is listed as you, you are registered, colleague Lackovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177951	I thank the President, here's a pure colleague of the Grumoya that knows neither DSV as a body, nor the DSV members have filed any lawsuit against you for damages, nor will they launch it because all the deadlines for such a lawsuit have expired. The case mentioned by a member of the DSV must know that it is a prerequisite to sue the newspaper, to seek an apology or an apology of what the publisher published, so the newspaper did not want to publish such an apology, or an apology, and that was a prerequisite for the suit. On the other hand, the DSV also requested the publication of the denials of what you have stated, I will not enter now into the metrics, it is not the Jutarnji list that wanted to publish, but after a court ruling which required therefore to publish the correction was approved, published and there is everything that you have now pointed out as a source of corruption, denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177952	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177953	Dear counterpart Lackovic, I don't see why the Jutarnji List would apologize for my statement, so it's the same if Prime Minister Plenkovic called a press conference, that certain statements, television houses and the media would pass it on and then you would sue those television houses and ask for their apology for what the prime minister said. And it's not true that the DSV members didn't sue me, you're as a parliamentary representative, my colleague and member of the DSV filed a lawsuit against me, against a parliamentary representative over that statement, and I'm going to explain it now that you want to, who elects and promotes judges in the Republic of Croatia? DSV. If we have a poor state of justice in the Republic of Croatia, who's responsible? It is not the responsibility of the president of HS, only if he has not staffed the DSV, the DSV is responsible, the DSV is responsible. I stand by that statement of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177954	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177955	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Grmoy, you're in complete logical contradiction, which one? You do not understand that here in HS is absolute freedom of speech, but that one is free of speech, and the other is conscious to insult someone and expect that the hands or practice that exists in HS protects you for a short time while you're here, and when you get out more and that immunity doesn't protect you. Therefore, I advocate that what the Assembly representative here at HS is saying is behind it and that he is aware that he is not lying because as long as he is protected from freedom of speech is actually reduced to insults, to slanders, you do not know that he has gone through this HS a lot of fellow MPs who are They heard insults, and then they heard them. [[Intruder: Thank you]] The courts freed, no one ever apologized to them. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Bačić]] have such colleagues very much. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177956	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177957	Thank you. So, counterpart Bacic, the morning paper is saddened by my interview on the state of justice in the Republic of Croatia. You know how much I've been attacking the Morning List and the policy of the Morning List and Free Dalmatia, but here I defend the media who convey my words and cannot be responsible for my words, and I haven't knowingly lied because you and I know well that the judiciary in the Republic of Dalmatia doesn't work, you know more because your godmothers have excavated this judiciary, you know more and better than I do that the judiciary doesn't work because you and I know it in such a way, you don't want the judiciary to be free, that it has free hands and a repressive apparatus, because if we had a free judiciary then many, colleague Bačić, would be behind bars, and you wouldn't be the pillars of this government and this society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177958	Let's go to the last line, Comrade Bull, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177959	Thank you very much. Comrade Grmoy, freedom of speech is fundamental to the need to have a parliamentary representative and this is the immunity as long as the term of office, of course after the term of office goes, it must be clear. And of course what was fundamental, which was the driver for me to get involved in politics, was a series of corruption examples of Sinjski Auto Transport, the takeover by Prometheus Makarska. And things like that that were catastrophic, the problem of the blue Dalmatian woman, the problem of the workers, it also broke down, and the most that forced me into politics and political water.../incomprehensible/... was never the money that was returned through the loan, which was meant to defend the Cetina region. It's a million-and-a-half marks, never to the Chetino end that money was returned. I've filed four criminal charges, and that's where the company that owns Emil Tedeschi is mentioned, if he's returned that money, let him show it to the pay card. Here, there's a colleague from Trily, he's the same heir to the municipality. Did you ever get a payment card for that? The money that was taken from the people of the Cetina province for defense? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177960	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177961	Comrade Bulj, I have been talking for a long time about the fact that corruption cannot be fought in principle by talking about the fight against corruption. We're all talking about fighting corruption. You should call the corrupt by name and last name, it's also a kind of prevention of a little stopping, which is too much is true, and Tedeshog is not touched. He doesn't touch it with him is as good as I know Plenkovic, and with him is good and presidential candidate Zoran Milanovic, and the money for the weapon is not returned, which he took. So he hasn't returned it now, and now he's a big successful entrepreneur, and he's probably gonna sue you, but he won't sue you because he knows when he'd sue you to just point out that story, and the bills aren't like you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177962	Thank you. We're going to the final address now, the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177963	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, here's after this debate that was amazing at times, so we've been listening to a lot of things that I think we should have taken a long stand and I have to admit that I'm a little worried about the tendency of an orbanian approach that our HDZ colleagues have. So to hear here from the president of the HDZ Club of Representatives that he would punish representatives at the Croatian Assembly for discussions and for what they say is something I didn't believe I would ever hear. And I didn't believe that Croatia could come back at all at some point when in the Croatian Parliament you couldn't say freely what you think, but obviously the HDZ itches when MPs in parliament talk about problems, when they talk about the legitimate demands of people in the education system and I must admit that I also care about the state of society where the media are able to be punished, as was the case with their colleagues Grumoje for what they announced, and they didn't say. It could happen that now HT gets the lawsuit the same way he got the morning list when Grumoja was giving an interview there. Now the bush has appeared, repeated the same things, and the HRT has passed on. So it is possible by the same principle that HRT also gets a lawsuit because it is not true what counterpart Lackovic said. The prerequisite for a lawsuit is that you're looking for an announcement in the media that it's not true what's written. So, sir, I don't know what that judge's name is, Camby, he didn't ask for it to be published in the morning list. He couldn't sue for damages in the morning list. So we are in a very dangerous situation, colleagues and colleagues in the Republic of Croatia, and it is that clearly the judiciary, one part of the judiciary and the ruling party want to prevent the debate in the Croatian Parliament and in the public space from being chosen to make these topics and this debate water, and we are chosen to lead this debate, we are chosen to say here that Croatia is blocked because of the will of Mr Plenkovic and the lack of understanding of the legitimate demands of the people in the education system, that Croatia is blocked and because of what the government is drawn up in a non-transparent, in my opinion a corrupt way, and that those who are chosen to represent one part of the voters are now all-wise HDZ and it is corrupt and non-transparent behaviour. So, Mr. Bačić, neither you nor HDZ will prevent the representatives from doing their job, I now see that what I said, and what someone announced as HDZ's high source in the morning list, that MPs will be responsible for supporting the strike, that it was not by chance, that it was consciously spoken to scare people and that orbanese attempt by HDZ would rule Croatia. Fortunately, it will not succeed because the citizens are full of such a arrogant way of leading Croatia. And I am convinced that very quickly Prime Minister Plenkovic will also give in because he should have given in to teachers and teachers a month ago that very soon people will realize that next year's elections are and will not watch those who sold them for small interests, and these are unfortunately too much in the Croatian Parliament. They only show up here on Fridays, press for HDZ proposals, and she doesn't see them for seven days. And on the other hand, the sooner we settle this in parliamentary and presidential elections, the better for our citizens. Mr. Bacic, you and HDZ won't succeed in that, no matter what people do here, no matter what they might do to shut them down. But we won't give in and we will do what the citizens and the Croatian Parliament have chosen for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177964	Wait a second, wait a minute, wait a minute. Before I give my word to my colleague Bacic. I now call upon all MPs to return to see who is protecting the right to speak and freedom speak, so I call all the parties, all the clubs, call your members and members to fight for freedom of speech, freedom of speech, and I ask you all clubs to come back, Comrade Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177965	Mr. President, Article 236 has been injured. On behalf of the SDP club, Mr. Maras was talking about everything but the subject he requested to discuss. Yes, colleague Maras, it is for me to advocate for the Parliament's representative to speak relevantly about what he knows and that when we speak to each other and about ourselves and not to be one of those representatives who talks about everything and everything because he loves his painting and what he says thousands of times here and he has no idea. What he's talking about and he's usually out of the picture. [[Intruder: Thank you, thank you, thank you.]] I do not advocate for such a representative, and such representatives should be held accountable.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177966	Thank you, thank you very much. ... Here you go, fellow Glavak. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Oh, no, you don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, I beg you, colleague Glavak is up on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club. It will be the final address of her not only on behalf of the club but also as a parliamentary representative. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177967	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It's hard to talk after a colleague of Maras. My colleagues and colleagues, I want to say goodbye today. This concludes my third term at the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much for your cooperation, thank you very much to my colleagues on the left with whom I have worked well, thank you, of course, to my HDZ, our voters, all the professional services. As of Monday, my mandate in the European Parliament begins. Thank you all from the heart and maintain the dignity of the Croatian Parliament, for our citizens, for the people who look at us, let us be proud of our homeland and always carry it in our hearts. Thank you very much from your heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177968	Well, it's a good thing someone didn't report for the breach of the Rules of Procedure because the colleague didn't stick to the subject. Okay. Let's vote now. So I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion which reads: "A request for authorisation to initiate a criminal proceedings against MP Damjan Vucelic following the private lawsuit of the attorneys of private prosecutors Marina Leka from Zagreb and Renate Curic of Sesvet, which was filed on 12 November 2019 by the Municipal Criminal Court in Zagreb for the crime of slander referred to in Articles 149 and 2. The Penal Code shall be based on Article 76(2). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be unfounded.’. Please, let's vote. I find that for the majority of the 76 votes, the 3 abstentions have been reached, as proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you. We still have free speech, so please just colleagues and colleagues who don't want to listen to free speech to leave the assembly. A colleague of the Tušeks can be here, so please, just as chairman of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, submit a report regarding the replacement of the mandate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177970	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. At the 54th session held on 10 December 2019, the mandate of the representative Sunčana Glavak, addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 20 November 2019, discussed the written notice to the President of the Croatian Parliament that the term of office in the European Parliament began on 1 December 2019, given that Dubravka Šuica was elected Vice-President of the European Commission and that she was suspended as a result of her incompatibility of the mandate in the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the election of members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Croatia has been laid down for the representative in the Croatian Parliament to be suspended on the date of the start of his term of office in the European Parliament. The commission found that Suncana Glavak had begun acting on 25 May 2018 as deputy representative of Darko Horvat. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has appointed Drazen Srpak as deputy representative of Dark Horvat elected in the 3rd election unit on the HDZ list. Following the above, the Mandate-Immunity Commission established that the conditions for the termination of the presidency of Suncani Glavak were met as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Drazen Srpka. The mandate-immunity committee shall be based on Article 10(2) and (3). Law on election of members in the European Parliament referred to in the Republic of Croatia and in Article 42(1) and (2) Law on election of MPs to the Croatian Parliament unanimously, with 6 votes to propose a decision to the Croatian Parliament to suspend the MP's term of office and start acting as deputy deputies. On 1 December 2019, representatives of the Suncani Glavak shall be suspended. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will begin acting on the day when the assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177971	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. So we should vote, right, to confirm this decision. I'm just asking you all to get involved because we're here somewhere, so it would just be correct for your colleague. Here, I'm just asking you all to turn yourself in and vote. Did you all get involved? Come on, can you just call one of your colleagues that, uh, a fellow Srpak came in, so he's still missing two. Is there one of ours? Nothing, unfortunately 74 of us are missing two MPs. Come on, let's get some more of your colleagues, Varda, and is there a colleague, Maras? Shall I put it to the vote should we take this one back? Here he goes, there goes another representative, it'll be that. I'm gonna need you to turn yourself on. Okay, you can declare, you can, you can. Here I am confirming that, unanimously with 76 votes, we have confirmed the report of my colleague, Tušek, so I now ask my fellow Serbs to join us to swear. Article 7 The Rules of Procedure have been established that the President shall read the text of the oath, and after that he shall call the representatives by name. A representative when called rises and pronounces "I swear." The text of the oath reads: “I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia.” Representative Drazen Srpak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177972	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-29-0.u177973	Thank you very much and congratulate my fellow Serbs, welcome. [[Applause.]] Now it's the GLAS's Club of Representatives and Honorable colleague Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go.
