ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-14-0.u148239	The next club, in fact it's not a club, but the next one will be a club-free representative, respected Bruno Esich, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-14-0.u148240	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's not the worst thing to be without a club, the worst thing is to be faceless. So, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, by the end of this month in public consideration, Vladin is the new Foreign Law proposal calling for a preamble to 1001 directives, regulations, decisions, the government wants us to convince us that we have to do something in subjection. Thus, by law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia would like to open the Croatian labour market wide to foreigners from third countries, i.e. to fully abolish annual quotas for foreign workers. What exactly does that mean? The reason for this devious and national irresponsible intention was to challenge the cry of Croatian employers for labour, and the government was certainly like a caring mother from the scene to listen to this blatant cry, but no, she had not listened to employers before when they sought a lighter fiscal policy, when they said that the reduction of tax burden on productivity would thus increase wages and employment and eventually also the filling of pension funds of whatever they were. She did not listen to employers when they asked for the abolition of numerous parafiscal duties and membership fees, she did not listen to entrepreneurs when they sought a simpler mechanism for the establishment of companies and their liquidation to shorten this transition time to a successful project. It did not finally forgive the flat-rate trades for using the legal possibility of a limited release of their capital from the tax but therefore quickly ran to unnamed sources where necessary by importing the workforce. And that in the land as we witness it daily sends its workers to a foreign country or country of the West. Of course, it's not about taking care of employers, but as I've already said, harmful and dangerous but completely reckless care of a single employer, a state. The state which budget as we have seen today is primarily tailored to the needs of those employees in the public sector. But that's a little bit less of a problem than what's really coming along. Namely, who can come to mind that tens of thousands of foreigners from who knows which countries and who knows with what life and cultural habits? Do you think you will solve the problems of the Croatian economy by bringing us tens of thousands of people who will work for minimum wage? You will create ghettoized settlements full of social apostates and lead our country through other countries that are already bearing clear testimony to how with this purely social engineering, they have introduced chaos and general uncertainty in their country. Those who were born in this country to eventually work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, they know best how foreign diplomats long to get jobs right in Zagreb, right in Croatia. Why? It's not because we're some important foreign-political factor, but because we're a safe country, actually a country where you can get lost at night. Who, after all, with any sense of belonging to the state and the people who dreamt and built this country for a thousand years can think of replacing tens of thousands of evicted Croats with foreigners? These foreigners will never accept this country as their own. You don't know how to get the Croats back? Then listen to the real ones, not your fictional i.e. Alibi employers, free for example every Croat who returns, taxes on work, and those who would deal with entrepreneurship, taxes on profits. Then you won't need amendments to the Foreign Law and even less annual quotas. And in the end, let each one be his own, and Croatia be the Croat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-14-0.u148241	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-14-0.u174748	We are still going to have a few points and we are going under: a) A report on the work of AZ compulsory pension funds for 2018 (a) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o., a company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2018 (a) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia Insurance d.d. for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2018 (a) Report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for d.d. We will vote on this item of the agenda in accordance with Article 2018. 4th century. 4th century. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. (a) a report on the work of the AZ Mandatory Pension Funds for 2018 is accepted. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 98 for, one abstention and 2 against the concluded conclusion that it was transferred by the parent constituency working body. (b) In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the work of the mandatory pension funds managed by Erste d.o.o., the company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2018, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 99 for, 3 against the conclusion that it was transferred by the parent constituency working body. c) In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of compulsory pension funds managed by PBZ Croatia insurance d.d. is accepted. for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for 2018, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 97 for, 1 abstention and 3 against the concluded conclusion that it was transferred by the home constituency working body. (d) In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the work of the mandatory pension funds managed by Raiffeisen company for the management of compulsory and voluntary pension funds for d.d. shall be adopted. For 2018, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 95 for and 3 against the conclusion that it was transferred by the parent constituency working body.
