ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143865	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable MPs and MPs. Allow me to present to you the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restricted Measures. The provisions of this law regulate the procedure for the application of international restrictive measures implemented by Croatia in accordance with EU legal acts, UN Security Council resolutions and the regulations it itself adopts when it decides on international restrictive measures on its own. The restrictive measures and monitoring of the implementation of the restrictive measures are very complex, they are of paramount importance as they contribute among other things to the fight against international terrorism, organised crime and ultimately to the preservation of international peace and security. In front of you, the proposal for a law which has already in its first reading incorporated recommendations from the Committee of Experts, the Council of Europe, MONEYWALL, which periodically assesses the system of preventing money laundering and the financing of terrorism by its members and in the implementation of these measures and how they are implemented, draws up appropriate reports. I did that committee when he saw this bill of ours which is now before you, assessed it positively and followed the recommendations that the committee had already made as a good practice in ensuring a special fight against terrorism and organised crime. In order to establish clearly, therefore, this law is particularly aimed at identifying clearly the concepts of assets of economic and other assets that may be subject to freezing and which can be frozen persons which are therefore frozen, to persons who are on special sanctions lists, and I say all of this once again, in accordance with these country group recommendations for financial action. The new definition includes the definition of assets and includes, among other things, oil and other natural resources. With this amendment, we believe that we will contribute greatly to a better fight against terrorism. Likewise, these amendments to the law in the definition of property are defined in particular by virtual assets which are also used to prevent money laundering and terrorist financing. The concept of control and control of assets and assets is extended by introducing a new concept of joint or indirect supervision, which now includes control of assets and financial assets and spouses and blood and Tabian relatives of persons on the sanctions list. The amendments therefore seek to cover the wider circle and to prevent abuses or avoidance of the sanctions mechanism. This bill, by the final draft of the law before you, ensures that property is also not made available in an indirect manner to all entities under international restrictive measures, the concrete court in the Republic of Croatia has first to block the assets of foreign legal persons in Croatia with registered company in the Republic of Croatia, provided that it is also on the sanctions list. Furthermore, in the text of the final draft law, it is prescribed that the freezing measure of assets and other assets, individuals and entities to which it applies may be implemented without prior notification to those persons and entities. Public publication of the list of natural and legal persons and other entities under international restrictive measures is also provided on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. This ensures on the one hand transparency and the possibility of each person and individual to know whether they are subject to certain sanctions but it is also important that what has been said before, only action, the freezing of funds is possible before and of course without prior notice to the person or the legal person concerned. The law also defines more clearly the powers of the implementation and monitoring group for the implementation of these international measures and that they have little wider powers. Namely, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs coordinates the work of the group and is also represented by representatives of other competent authorities and public administrations in the Republic of Croatia. The law also provides that the group may propose to the Government of the Republic of Croatia the adoption of additional restrictive measures, namely certain natural and legal persons, on a proposal by either individual member of the group itself, so the competent representatives of the authorities of the state and public administration operating within the framework of the E Group of Government, and also those measures can be proposed to the Government on the initiative of some other EU Member States and some third countries. This draft law ensures that the Republic of Croatia can spot without delay and also adopt on its own the Government's decisions on the adoption and introduction of certain restrictive measures whenever it considers it necessary and even before the completion of the process of transposition and harmonisation of these rights at EU level. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can decide independently on the implementation of these measures, and, of course, within the framework of the debate, the EU can also make its own proposals, I recall, therefore, at EU level common sanctions are agreed and the decision is decided unanimously. We point out that, therefore, with this bill of law, therefore, it allows the government itself to act, equally so that well, spotfully, effectively, conducts transparently international sanctions that have been adopted jointly under the auspices of the UN under Chapter 7. Security Councils which are directly required for all UN Member States, as well as for the Republic of Croatia, as well as those decisions on sanctions taken jointly by all UN Member States. From this bill and these amendments, we believe that the measures that contribute to the fight against international terrorism and transnational organised crime, as well as measures that bring about transparency and protection and the rule of law, will ensure stability and security in the world, and I say on the other hand, protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, because, in the implementation of such international restrictive measures, it is necessary to maintain an appropriate balance. I propose that this high house accept this final bill. The government itself has accepted all the proposals of the board of this HS, they are now embedded in this final bill of law and here we propose that this high house adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143866	Thank you to the secretary of state, two of them are replicas, the first is a respected colleague of Tudjman's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143867	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you said these international measures are being adopted unanimously in the EU. I think it would be a good idea that in our law there is a provision to accept those that are made unilaterally, over time, there may be a change in these relations and rules of conduct within the EU, given that and now it is already being discussed whether all decisions should be made by consensus or by majority, especially what, the clear thing we all need to be, we all support this fight against terrorism and restricting all these possible options, but we know through history that the definition of who the terrorist was changing over time and therefore should, in my opinion, introduce such a provision into our law that the Republic will respect only what was brought unanimously. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143868	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143869	So, with all due respect to this one proposal, the EU rules are indeed as you yourself said that the international restrictive measures that would be taken, adopted at EU level, agreed and adopted unanimously, and thus indeed the Republic of Croatia is also taking part in such decisions in advance and fully agreed with it. It is true that if debates could not be accepted for certain situations and a different decision-making method, however, I would say it is still far from any final decision, and I say the measures themselves, if they were to be taken differently within the EU once except by consensus, would not directly commit RH. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143870	The second one's next, dear colleague Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143871	Dear Secretary of State, the Honorable President, therefore, against this bill no one will have anything I suppose, this is commendable and I will personally support it, however, I am interested in talking about organised crime and the fight against terrorism, whether there is any terrorist organisations in the Republic of Serbia on the list of terrorist organisations declared as a Chetnic terrorist organisation which the Serbian regime has successfully rehabilitated and whether we as a state are going to make sure that under this law and all these Chetnic organisations in Serbia are placed on the blacklist or disabled their funding. Furthermore, when we talk about migration and migrants, today we have a constant number of migrants in BiH, regardless of what we have daily inflows of several hundred or thousands of migrants, so we have organised, illegal, criminal, means crossing these migrants across the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and I also see nothing in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143872	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143873	So here they can start with this second question, the problem of migrants and the challenges facing each individual country, and the EU as well as the one which, at a certain level, jointly tries to respond to these challenges, but of course remains in each Member State to ensure, among other things, its own border, in no way, the implementation of this law, therefore, these are measures of limitations that can be imposed against individual countries, against individual organisations, and this law is just a framework that allows the UN, the EU, or the Government of the Republic itself to adopt appropriate laws. About your first question, according to this...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143874	Unfortunately, time is up, so you'll have to answer another time. We're going to the committee's reporters now. Would one of the committee's reporters like to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, a respected colleague, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143875	Thank you, Mr. President. State secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on international restrictive measures, i.e. a system of sanctions. Sanctions against other governments, sanctions against natural persons governed by decisions of the UN Security Council or of the EU whose member we are. So, the goal, of course, is to combat money laundering or terrorist financing, these are the main objectives of this legislative act and this system which actually Croatia has already had since 2008, it seems to me, later in 2014, that some changes, however, the Council of Europe has its own expert group, so on. Manival, which has also made certain recommendations on how to improve this system, in particular as regards application. Therefore, when a decision has already been taken at the level of the UN Security Council, as well as within which period it has been applied and in this respect there has been room for the improvement of this system, as this legislative proposal also appears. This may be one of the key provisions, there have been some concerns during the first reading, whether there may be a difference in access to the UN Security Council's decision, then EU bodies, but it seems to me that this has been resolved, that it is clear that, therefore, all EU members are members of the UN, they can possibly go deeper in some system of sanctions, but will not go against that direction already decided at the level of the Security Council and therefore there are no contradictions there. In this paper introduced by this law, which is that international restrictive measures can already be applied, therefore, the relationship between the system of sanctions established by UN resolutions, before the end of the procedure within the EU, that Croatia can do so immediately. Of course, this law, or bill of law, allows Croatia to launch both itself and the EU Council, to propose certain sanctions when it deems it necessary, as is also the paper, the establishment of this permanent group, i.e. redefining and a permanent group and with stronger or clearer powers and with the coordination of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I would finally mention is the fact that with this legislative proposal, this improvement of the system, what is possible is the smooth operation and economic operators in the Republic of Croatia without the need for any international monitoring. In order not to adopt these recommendations we have received, then, of course, that from the international stage, especially from the level of the Council of Europe, there would also be requirements for certain systems of monitoring our entities to see if they are fully in line with the systems for the control of money laundering and the fight against terrorism. By strengthening our national capacities, to do so, then such an international instance is not needed and I think so much that this also helps Croatian economies not to be in any situation where some international monitoring instance is needed, but we can indeed do so with our national capacities. Here, that's why I think it's necessary to support this final bill, it will certainly be done by the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143876	Thank you. We are now going to another Club of Representatives, this is GLAS and HSU, a respected colleague of the Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143877	... With a co-worker. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Second reading of the Law on International Restriction Measures. Introductoryly, I don't see that something that impressed us was our first reading debate because it didn't change anything about it. The main reason for these amendments, therefore for the amendments and additions to the Law on International Restricted Measures, states the non-compliance and warning that came from European institutions regarding the prevention of money laundering and the financing of international terrorism. Well, since that's one of the reasons that's listed here, does that mean that we had a problem with it? Does this mean that they warned us because there were cases unresolved in Croatia or problems related to money laundering that we have been warned of or suspected of financing international terrorism? The second reason is the implementation of sanctions established by Security Council resolutions related, for example, to the freezing of terrorists and their helpers. This section relating to the possibility of implementing Council resolutions certainly before they were adopted and became both official policy and EU sanctions, I have warned on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club and last time that it is precisely because these decisions are taken in European institutions unanimously and not likely many decisions will come about being made by a double qualified majority or by some kind of majority. But for these sanctions, it is very unlikely that they will ever come up with majority decisions, I think that they will remain permanently due to the sensitivity of this form of individual veto de facto of every state, so to make it unanimously, I don't think there's that danger. But there is a danger that I have witnessed firsthand that one of the Member States is stopping or wishing to exempt one of those on the sanctions list or whose property should be frozen by decision-making, the decision of the UN Security Council, and that these content of what the sanctions apply to, therefore, any person, whether an institution changes in the EU. In the EU bodies, too, in the process of deciding to change what it means for Croatia to impose sanctions that would go beyond what the EU's decision would be, or what the EU's official position would be. I remember in my last reading, you replied that there was a theoretical possibility, but it's not likely. However, the more controversial sanctions policy, and the more controversial it is and the more de facto mixed with intervention in the global free market, and as we can see, and it is now on the agenda as simply a political instrument that is this case likely to happen bigger. So I am simply warning that this problem is theoretically real and that at least there should be some kind of valid procedure that we will react to if this happens, if we impose sanctions on someone who is subsequently exempt from sanctions by European Council decisions. It was also necessary to amend the law to allow the assets of terrorists and assistants to be frozen. Does that mean that so far it's not done as far as I know, it's the law so far also made possible but maybe I'm wrong so I'm asking you to answer that. The third moment is Croatia based on these changes can implement the UN sanctions, and I have commented on that. However, Croatia can propose EU sanctions. Until now, any member state could and so far propose sanctions is only a matter of what support it could receive. So if you showed up with some totally idiosyncratic, specific things that have nothing to do with the general interest of the EU, then of course you couldn't get support for it, but you could have suggested a restrictive measure so far. So in this respect, I find it more relevant to amend the internal procedure rather than externally towards the EU, and the internal procedure now foresees that this group proposes to the government any initiative to impose sanctions and that any member of that group that is placed on different resolutions can propose it, OK, it is an internal one procedure but does not change in my opinion the dramatic thing that is regulated by law. What's more, what's being introduced by this law is prevention, it may have been the most exposed or the biggest hole in the law in my knowledge, which is to make it impossible for persons under sanctions to have indirect access to their own property. So what's on that person is frozen, but everything else de facto remains available. As we can see from the example within Croatia is a general problem and it was obviously here in this sense this improvement. And finally introduces a new definition of property, i.e. a broader definition of the property of persons under sanctions and, as I said in my previous comment and identifying what is all the property of the person under sanctions. So it is not necessary for it to be entered in land books to say so to that person, the concept of property is broader because, of course, indirect people under sanctions have been very successful both economically and privately, regardless of what they were under sanctions, which we know that the case is also in the internal order to say so, not to say a mess in Croatia. So that people can come indirectly who are otherwise convicted of economic crime. So in this respect, issues are questionable that Croatia will come into a situation to sanction someone who is not ultimately under EU sanctions, and I think that this should be resolved, that there should be some form that will be standard procedure if such a situation occurs precisely because conditions change and what would say competition is often or increasingly a reason to say that political sanctions or political restrictions are raised, and I pray that we respond to whether we have been warned whether we have really had a problem with that, and that is why we have been warned by washing internationally, at international level of money and people who are accused of international crime or terrorism. Beyond that, we will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143878	We are now going to the third Club of Representatives that is MOST independent lists and respected colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143879	Thank you very much, President. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues of the law that restricts any matter where we will be much more active, much more unique, where it restricts money laundering in the fight against terrorism, of course, that we should support it. However, all the sanctions that were prescribed here and the predecessor spoke about whether Croatia could also do so without these directives that we have, which we are implementing, have sanctions on individuals. However, here I would have once again warned publicly how much this house is, and the Croatian government in this was slow and limited essentially the fight against money laundering. Two years ago, we proposed in this assembly that a public vote be made and a register of real owners of companies in the Republic of Croatia, because before that, the EU Directive was adopted where representatives in the European Parliament from Croatia and Mr Stier were then voted, however, they did not vote in the assembly. In the assembly they were against it, while in the European Parliament they were in favour of this directive and it is amazing how the register is hidden in Croatia. And then they found some kind of compromise solution, this government has proposed that a register be opened since 2020. For what? That some things are being mixed up, which is why it was not immediately resolved before, but if you have adopted the directive and, as a matter of fact, the ruling party is a member of the ruling party at EU level. So, in the fight against terrorism, we don't even respect these directives, because those representatives in the European Parliament who voted in favour of the anti-terrorism directives on the prevention of money laundering so that the real owners of companies are known and the register is published, they have sought various means of various exits, exit strategies not to accept it. And it is not clear how the public, and the public must know that the HDZ in the Europarliament and other parties unanimously accepted the directive, while in the Croatian Parliament there were resistances in the Croatian government. And I don't see why. And what counterpart Pusic mentioned earlier that Croatia can also look for its way of sanctioning what it does not belong to these EU directives. So, we were hiding, the Croatian government register of real owners of the company. So, for two years, we've been warning, we've been making proposals, we've been making amendments, and then there's been some kind of solution that's only been going since 2020. I'd like to ask you a few more questions. So terrorism and money that, of course, is related to money laundering and the triba being a restriction, this and the limit of the triba accept. We are the state that has accepted the Marrakech compact or the agreement until our neighbouring states have done so. So countries in our environment didn't do that, which means that migrants will come here, of course, that can be financed with money that means they're funded with money that will be financed by terrorism or money that's somewhere laundered by money laundering. Do we have within the EU if we accept this Marrakech compact Croatia, and all of our neighbouring states are not regardless of what has not been discussed in parliament about accepting that compact, so let's see why, if there is not, will the EU co-finance this fight against this possible terrorism since the money laundering because we have accepted the Marrakek compact, they are not. Our neighbouring countries didn't accept it, which means we'd have extra resources because we'd have to have increased control of it. Obviously, we didn't fight for this, because if we did then we'd certainly have at least some money that we could have, so we have money for human resources first to control this and these other things that are needed to determine these, to prevent terrorism from that money. So there are a number of ambiguities, numerous misunderstandings that Croatia is bringing to a much more difficult position than neighbouring countries that are also EU members, and I am mainly talking about the adoption of the Marrakek Agreement and the compact, but only because of the fact that it is not allowed, the distinguished secretaries, that the Croatian Parliament, like the one in Bundestag, is being discussed, until the Croatian Parliament discussed it. So, it is not enough just to rewrite European directives, of course, that the triba accepts what is positive, that the triba fight against money laundering that will be included, in which it is possible to give this to promote terrorism and terrorism, and we are terrorism, and we are a tourist state and any terrorism, and even the smallest, should not be called on, we do not even need to think about what would mean for Croatia not only about tourism but also about the economy. Here I would ask one more of you, of course, to accept these shifts that have been proposed by these amendments to the law, by limiting, by international restriction, but here if you can answer these questions whether Croatia means there is a possibility or whether you have fought that Croatia has accepted the Marrakech Agreement whether it is, and our neighbours are not... It will also pay that it will be co-financed from or financed from EU funds in the fight against this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143880	There are no more clubs, so we're going to an individual debate. The first is counterpart Sasa Djujic, he is gone, so he loses his right to speak. And then it's time for a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143881	Like I said, the law is bad. But I'm going to repeat what's in the replica a little bit more detail, so here's the answer. So we are talking about restrictive measures and international terrorism and organised crime, and it is always a question of who belongs to the category of terrorists or terrorist organisations. So there's even a list of what organisations are and what movements are on that list. I'm asking this because in our neighbouring country that attacked us in '91. Today, a movement called the Chetnik movement has been rehabilitated. Therefore, the official Serbian government did not give up this movement, i.e. in that country there are numerous associations, associations, societies that are just based on this one Chetnic, fascist ideology that comes from, meaning even before World War II, but in World War II it showed its true face. But of course we have to say in the Homeland War. And now if we talk about terrorism, there are various types of terrorism, I think the terrorism that comes from that side of Croatia is the most dangerous. I am, I hope that Croatian secret services are doing this, institution their job. But I'm curious if you're the Ministry, so you've done something about it? I sent you a memo two years ago while there was no such thing as the Institute of Representative Affairs where I asked for your testimony about this, with the rehabilitation of a terrorist, criminal movement in Serbia that the minister and the entire ministry would, of course, think of Prime Minister Plenkovic, I know that this will not happen unfortunately, because the minister must not do this because Plenkovic does not want it, but I did not get an answer to his letter until today. I can turn him into a parliamentary question so maybe one day I get some answer that's going to be standard anyway. But here we are now in front of the Croatian public, this is what people look at, so do you intend as a ministry to make sure that all these organisations are not only about Croatia but about the world, because it is about a law that is plementated at EU and global level, including a list of terrorist organisations and that all those involved in these organisations are disabled in funding or organised crime and terrorism, and this law speaks of it. If we're going to hypothetically talk about terrorism some kind of fiction but we're not going to be able to locate the real one in front of us, so we're going to identify and solve it, and then this law doesn't make any sense. So this is a brief and clear question, which you as a ministry and you as a secretary of state and minister, of course our government did on this matter, and do you intend to do what? To this question first I know the answer, you can tell me later that I'm wrong, nothing, and are you up to something? I'd love to, but I'm afraid while Andrej Plenkovic and this kind of politics of the Croatian government is nothing. But here's your answer, give us hope even if it's a false hope. Furthermore, the second question that I raised in the replica, which is a question of migration that can be very easily linked to this because it is an organised crime that obviously the Croatian state either looks through its fingers or doesn't, I don't know, or we're incompetent or we're looking through our fingers. So, if we are incompetent, although I do not think that thousands of Croatian police officers, whom I thank this way for keeping the Croatian borders and doing it best in the world that they are guilty, the system is guilty, the one a little bit more, I will say, I will identify him, so Minister Bozinović, in particular, who allows the illegally illegal thousands of migrants to pass through Croatia today. And it's about organized crime, it's about this law. So, mathematics is simple, everyone will understand it, every day several thousand or hundreds of new migrants come to BiH and the number of registered migrants in BiH is identical. So these people are passing through our homeland, passing through the Gorski Kotar, passing through Croatia, passing through the vans bounded. So it's organized crime and this is the law. So, I want concrete measures, of course it's not just you, but it concerns, first of all, the Ministry of the Interior to see how this law is, whether this law is specifically considering and what measures have been taken. And we pretend crazy that we don't know right now that there are 2, 3,5 thousand migrants in the Croatian forests and that there are vans on the Croatian roads. We're talking about organized crime, I'm going to take a little bit off topic, but I'm going to make one link, it's going to be clear to all the viewers, and it's going to be to you. In Croatia, like no country of transition, a major organised crime took place, we called it privatisation. Unfortunately, this law does not provide that anyone, anyone who robbed the Croatian state in the 1990s and somewhat later is sanctioned and is blacklisted as a criminal person. And then, perhaps, if this speech of mine would move you and all the other ministries that are competent to have all the people who robbed our homeland in an unremembered robbery, I'll tell you ever in the territory of Croatia and one of the biggest robberies in the world to sanction themselves, to hear the final names and last names and not to be the one who got by, he got on or who pitted, he pitted. Here I also have to make another interesting link, all the people who deal with politics, and I personally, we're under one big crowd and I'm up for it, so I'm up for it. So I want to say a personal example from a few days ago when I wanted a child after she got a few hundred kunas to open a child's savings, then, first I had to sign some statement that my child was politically exposed to me, that I was a politically exposed person, and then the biggest shock came when a bank clerk told me, says I have to get an email from my bank manager from Zagreb, I opened an account in my Sibenik that I could communicate with you as a party. That I can communicate with you as a party. Great. So, politicians deserve to be seen under a special light. On the other hand, people who have criminal charges, people who've cut into crime, people who mean that I don't list all categories, people who've privatized, robbed millions, they don't have to wait for someone from Zagreb to send them an email and tell them you're allowed to communicate on the counter, get in touch, it was an expression, get in touch with the party. I'm going to mention one more interesting thing here, it's also a link, so it's going to be clear to everyone, it's about the Committee to prevent conflicts of interest. So, I can't wait for our prime minister to finally come before the committee and say that a law has been made that allowed a group of people to make five hundred million kunas, so I'm wondering if that one reasonable doubt might be somehow covered by this? Will the international institutions be aware that the president of the Croatian government is currently a suspect, means before the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests for 5 hundred million kunas. I will make an interesting one link, the viewers will remember how former HDZ President Tomislav Karamarko left the post and the post of Deputy Prime Minister, because his wife worked for the company that worked for the INA for hundreds of thousands of kuna. On the other hand, Dalia Oreshkovic, who later, and politically engaged, has shown that she has a political stance, today that same commission that allowed Prime Minister Plenkovic to come to the post, cannot do his job because the prime minister is not in favour of the new chairman of the commission. So I'm curious about how this is the Croatian media when it comes to one of the presidents of the HDZ and vice presidents of the Croatian government, the reaction that this was put into focus is extremely strong, extremely large, and now that it's about Prime Minister Plenkovic, Croatian media is silent. And I'm going to say that this was about a hundred thousand kuna, and this is about 500 million kuna. Of course, he's not directly connected to this law, but here, I'll make one little resume out of all this, so you don't forget. The issue of terrorist organisations in R. Serbia, not just there, we and others in the neighborhood, to put themselves on the list. So the issue of organised crime, I'm talking about the transfer of migrants illegally through the Republic of Croatia, as far as this law is concerned. And I'm going to climb up and I'd like that privatisation mentioned in some way through any law, and perhaps even through this law, that all those who see the accounts of some Croatian secretaries abroad tomorrow, know that this money is not legally obtained, but that it was obtained by the robbery of the Croatian state and Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143882	Let's go to... There's no replica. Then let's go to the next individual debate, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143883	Thank you very much. This topic, I said on behalf of the club, is very important and significant. The measures to limit money laundering and the fight against terrorism are, in fact, to discuss it, and we in the Republic of Croatia are in this kind of chain, that we simply did not accept the EU directive. Once again, two years ago, we proposed that the register of real owners of companies, what the directive in the EU has already been adopted, be accepted in this House, but this Parliament did not agree and this is a key problem. That simply those MPs who were in the EU parliament, here, so colleague Stier spoke earlier, he voted in the EU for this law, for this directive to be passed, but here you did not vote, and only later did you pass this law to be real... owner of real companies, while the EU directive came a long time ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which is why Croatia did not want to implement the directive immediately, while I repeat, at the same time that the government in Croatia is identical, when the group is the same ruling majority, representatives of the EU parliament. And that's the key question. As far as the debate is concerned, this is a broad debate. counterpart Zekanovic mentioned a Chetnik movement here. This isn't rehabilitated. He didn't fit. So we have the head of the R. Serbian Chetnik. So he's not rehabilitated, he's permanent. So right now we have Alexander Vukic who was a brush, who was a wrinkler, who was, and we welcome him here with a red wallpaper. I'm sorry he didn't ask us then, and in the media it was even forbidden to ask him when he would be in Croatia... I mean the forbidden question to that man, which means, it's normal for them to be the head of state in R. Serbia, and we're taking him with a red wallpaper and I don't mind taking him in, so at least one name of the missing person comes in. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, therefore, when we talk about the Chetnik movement, the Chetnik movement is permanent, we know that Chetnik chief Vojislav Seselj is at large, leading politics, while Croatian generals who defend themselves are still in The Hague. Therefore, I think that we must be much more active in the fight against terrorism, restrictions, sanctions because we are much more vulnerable. We have adopted the Marrakech Agreement, regardless of what this Parliament is not, regardless of what we have proposed to debate in Parliament, without Parliament, without the will of the people, without the will of the MPs who are at this time in the Assembly, and our neighbours are not and by this logic we are more at risk than terrorism and money laundering because we need to know that not all people who are there because of social, human threat, that there are people who have crossed the border illegally, who were soldiers, members of terrorist organisations, ISIL or anything that is not in that area, and we are much more vulnerable and if Croatia has adapted so much to Angela Merkel and her principle, then the minimally respected secretaries needed to vote for money to secure people and resources in the implementation of these directives, this which we implement in our legislation. But you didn't do it either. Our neighbours did not accept the Marrakech Agreement, and this is the EU that we are essentially on the custodian, which we are obediently entering into some of the things we are checking and we are not even financially using to secure money for the implementation of these measures that we are implementing in the law that we are going to adopt because what is in the fight against terrorism, of course we will accept and it is not clear how 2 years of the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what this has been officially proposed through the amendments and what we have given amendments, that they have not also accepted those representatives who have been Europarliamentarians who have accepted it. Why and why is the register of real owners of the company still coming out in 2020? If this is the EU, if we are referring to the EU, to the EU principles, and I think there are a lot of these things that should be answered here by an important secretary, the Minister should also come here in these bat topics sometimes because there is a lot that has not taken action and implementation of the Republic of Serbia in the entry of 2023, i.e. Commissions, chapter 23, chapter 24, so that as a minister, as a person at the head of diplomacy, she could appear here and talk about this issue, of course the secretary will defend it, but I don't know why she's been avoiding it here for a long time, and we expected her on the Defence Committee, for veterans, she didn't even show up because she had to give reports to Serbia or Serbia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Serbia entered the EU, of course it did not keep it but was obliged, not a single report sent. Therefore, I think that this law will make sense when Croatia implements what is good immediately and not retro and then boast with these measures as if it were something new we are bringing, some new step and this should have been implemented long ago, we should have protected the Croatian borders, we flew into the Marrakech Agreement without this Assembly and this is the most painful thing this Parliament has not received the opportunity to debate, such as. In Germany, Bundestag discussed these problems, however, on the committee of counterpart Kovac at the time did not accept at all to vote on it, to have the opportunity to discuss it, and I would like all Croatia to deal with any financial resources that would be the institutions strengthened, human resources that would be to implement this in Croatian legislation combating terrorism and money laundering, a restriction, who would implement it because half of Croatia has been robbed so far, no one is responding. It was all money laundering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143884	We have two replicas, the first respected colleague, Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143885	Dear colleague Bulj, here's a message to me right on my phone, says when you mentioned Vukic and the red carpet, the transfer was interrupted on HRT, something else was transferred so that you know what is the painful point of our government, so when we mention that our President co-opted with, you made a nice statement to a man who was declared, declared himself a member of the Chetnic movement and when he was co-opted with him in Zagreb, that is unacceptable, then we will expect that the Foreign Ministry with such a minister and a government with such a Prime Minister will make sure that these means organizations that are terrorist, put on the black list, so normally not when the president is the top of the political pyramid in Croatia, when she takes these people here and she gives them but means, she rehabs them in fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143886	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143887	Well, it doesn't matter, I mean, Vucic is a Chet and he's proud of it, he's bullying people of Serbian nationality, he should first apologize to those people for being hoarse at the borders of Greater Serbia and he's made a huge problem for both the people of Croatia and the people of Serbia and of course he can't implement it because they're simply in the coalition, they're joint partners in the European People's Party, they're the cracks, HDZ and Vučić and simply receiving Vukic in such a way that we're making fun of the storm, and most of the majority here are when it's Storm Day, they're in Bačka Palanca, their colleague is in Bačka Palanca, down at the party of Chetnic while we're here celebrating the Storm, and it's just too much the influence of Alexander Vukic on politics directly through most of Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143888	Another replica, dear fellow Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143889	Thank you, President of the Parliament. Comrade Bulj, you were talking about the fight against terrorism, the security of the Croatian state, I personally think we haven't been since the beginning of '92, 92, '95. Now, to this day, we stand firm behind what we have experienced. We know that the camps in Serbia were, we know what they were doing with Croatian defenders, from the Croatian people who were taken from Croatia to Serbia. A fellow Pupovac performed so violently in the Parliament yesterday, defending, of course, nobody should be justified... Freedom must be in Croatia, but the question is why the criminals they were meant to be prosecuted for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why can't we even know today the truth about the crimes in their camps where Croatians from Croatia were taken to Serbia? Of course these people, refugees who come to us from Syria or down from that Middle East They pass through Serbia legally, and our people ask no questions. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Why is that? [[Thank you, colleague.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143890	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143891	Thank you very much. Well, I was just saying that my colleague Misic was supposed to be the minister who is head of the Committee for the Monitoring of Pre-accession Serbia's Opening of Chapters 23 and 24, which is not, which does not respect the government's decisions, we see, means he says what the problem is. As far as fellow Pupovec is concerned, of course we need to prosecute all crimes, any aggression, but the fact that fellow Pupovac, it's time to say what's going on with Dr. Pupovac. Ivan Schreter, it would be minimal for the family to know where the bones of the deceased are. That's as much as the family expects, and so do all of us, that we at least know how to bury that man with dignity. Therefore, I believe that searching for missing, crimes, those who are... Criminal hands, priority at this point, and the Foreign Ministry is not doing its job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143892	Thank you. This is what we came to the end of the debate, so let's get to the final word of the promoter, please State Secretary Andre Metelko Zgombić to speak to us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143893	Thank you. Here, first of all, I would like to thank all the participants in the debate because, from all statements and comments, it can nevertheless be concluded that parliamentary deputies support these changes and that they will contribute to the fight against international terrorism, the fight against international crime and peace and security. As regards specific issues, it may only be brief to say that it has not really been noticed so far and there has been no objection to the implementation of the existing law, however, Manival is acting within the Council of Europe and it is worrying and constantly improving the practice of the state and has therefore proposed Croatia to amend and supplement this law which is now before you. Among other things, noting the concept of assets that can be subject to restrictions, this now refers to oil and other natural resources and what is very, very important is that it is spoken of as common and indirect supervision and it is controlled, so that it does not freeze the property itself that is formally and directly owned by persons who are subject to sanctions rather than those who belong to or who belong to persons under its control, supervision, therefore, Tabian, marital relations, family relations, are all links that extend to the subject of sanctions, i.e. property subject to restrictive measures. With regard to Croatia's law as members of the EU, to deepen certain sanctions, that, indeed, there is, therefore, sanctions negotiated at UN level, we have sanctions negotiated at EU level, and each Member State is equally entitled to deepen certain sanctions on the issue of respected deputies, which is, if certain countries block the adoption of sanctions at EU level, since this requires unanimity, of course, that Member States should leave that possibility for an additional, precise and perhaps slightly more targeted introduction of certain measures. During this debate, there were also questions about R. Serbia, persons on the sanctions lists, yes, certain persons from Serbia are on the sanctions lists of both the UN and the Republic of Serbia, and it is also on the sanctions lists agreed in the EU. Just to remind that Milosevic and his family's assets were still subject to these sanctions and restrictive measures. When it comes to migration, they are indeed not directly, do not enter into application and this law, however, the fact is that very often during the debate mentioned, the Marrakech Agreement is a compact, an agreement on non-legally binding migration, which offers countries that have given it only a set of measures, and in each country it is that depending on its own migration policy it chooses and determines how it will be set up for migration. The EU is aware, therefore, of the challenges that migration brings, and just as the Marrakech agreement has signalled to a large extent the issue of migration should be addressed by action towards the countries of the source, and there the EU has great power and strength right through development policy and humanitarian and development aid to the countries that are in need, acting on sources of migration, I would say that this is also the answer that the EU allows from its funds to address the issue of migration. And in the end, I can only say that when it comes to organised crime, Croatian police are very much protecting Croatian borders and as many as 6500 police officers have been engaged in the protection of these borders and in recent years, in this year, there has also been a large, large increase in the capture and breaking of precisely these criminal networks that are trying to smuggle illegal roads into the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, it might say that both the Government of the Republic of Croatia and accept the amendments proposed by the Committee for the Legislatives of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143894	Let's go to the replicas, dear fellow Bull, come on in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143895	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, what is good should be accepted, of course, that there is no dispute about it, but it is always a problem how the directive is applied or the amendments we currently have and everything that is in the fight against terrorism and money laundering which is, however, it should be accepted, however, is the fact that you have not answered a few questions. The first question is why in 2020, we only have a register of real owners will be companies, which is why when the directive was passed two years ago, we proposed it but it wasn't accepted? Why is the Croatian helmet for these directives and you are calling for EU values, the EU directive, but why has this law not been adopted long ago? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143896	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143897	The creation of this list is under way, you yourself said it will be completed, it is a complex, demanding job, it needs very careful access and the directive gives guidance to Member States and Croatia is currently within the deadlines provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143898	Second replica, dear colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143899	Dear Secretary of State, you have not answered the question which is crucial to either and which I have asked you, you have spoken about migration, I will agree that the Croatian police and stressed in the debate are doing a very good job, but there is no political will first and foremost the minister that this problem is solved which is obvious, means hello to Croatian police officers, the Marrakech Agreement did not have to be signed because many of the key countries of the world did not sign it without reason, and even the United States did not sign it without reason and we only signed it because, however we adopted it in order to get in another international community, and I did not get an answer to the question of terrorist organisations in our neighborhood with an emphasis on Chetish terrorist organisations, you ignored what I was talking about 5 minutes here. So why doesn't the Croatian state make an effort to get these organisations on the list of terrorist organisations? And what does the Croatian Foreign Ministry think about rehabilitating the movement in Serbia?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143900	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143901	All are well aware of the mechanism to be implemented in order to list a particular person or organisation, so this law does not resolve this way but should therefore apply certain rules, so at the UN level a decision is taken by the UN Security Council and at EU level by all States in common. So that requires consensus, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143902	And finally, dear colleague Lovrinovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143903	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, ma'am. Metelko Zgombić, you have here made quite optimistic and peaceful statements about migration and said that 6500 police officers who are enough to protect the border are successfully fighting criminal groups who are smuggling, you see, you are completely mistaken. This is about hundreds of thousands of people passing through Croatia, Croatia looks like Swiss cheese, it is pierced, some are caught on the road by smugglers and thousands are moving further towards Germany, Austria. The media are hiding this information, Croatia has become an insecure country for us citizens, especially certain corridors that are the fastest to cross. When we citizens go across the border, we have to line up, show the passport, ID card, procedure, thousands and hundreds of thousands of years pass through Croatia, ask the government to protect the Republic of Croatia because Croatia is threatened and the Croatian people are threatened.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143904	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143905	Dear Mr. Representative, Croatia is not an insecure country and I think that the joint joint efforts of all RS authorities ensure this, and I think we should all appreciate and admit it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143906	Thank you very much, we've come to the end of the debate, I'm locking it up, we'll vote when the conditions come to an end. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restriction Measures, second reading, P.Z. No. 622. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the proposing representatives accepted the amendment committees and they became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the law on international restrictive measures. Please, let's vote. I find it simply 86 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on International Restricted Measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143909	Dear Mr. President, distinguished MPs and MPs, in order to further improve the defence system and the capabilities of the Croatian military, and in line with a strategic review of the defence that highlights the importance of the development of defence capabilities, we are facing this law today. The security paradigm is changing, both in the world and in our environment. The frequent cyber attacks on national critical infrastructure as part of hybrid action are certainly one of today's greatest threats. We therefore need to work on training users of information systems, adapt information architecture, apply advanced protection techniques, and raise awareness of security culture and the application of information security laws and cybersecurity of operators, key services and digital service providers. In March of this year, we conducted a practice of the National Security and Cyber Shield System in 2019 with the aim of raising awareness of cybersecurity with a focus on key service operators, digital service providers, sectoral authorities and bodies in charge of prevention and protection against incidents. The Republic of Croatia is the goal of the ability and cyber defence that we have taken over as part of NATO's defence planning process. Its implementation implies the development of a range of capabilities to the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army related to cyberspace. It is very important that we develop and integrate the capacity of protection and defence in cyberspace, given that cyber attacks in the world are increasingly common. We have determined that it is necessary to improve the system of protection of military information communications systems against cyber threats and attacks. That is why we started with the process of forming a cyberspace command as a new unit of the Croatian Army and at a strategic level, so far the Croatian Army has had the command of the Land Army, the command of the Croatian Navy, the command of Croatian Air Force, the Croatian Military School, the command of support, with this now we get this sixth strategic command, the command of cyberspace. The proposed law regulates the normative framework and rules of action in cyberspace for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army. The Strategic Defence Review stresses the importance of developing defence capabilities that have been agreed as a national and international obligation with NATO and EU allies, as well as other organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined on the basis of international contracts. One solution is the establishment of international military commands and other military bodies with the task of developing common capacity objectives that countries have accepted and result from membership in international organisations. Since the current provisions of the Defence Act in relation to the establishment of those bodies are not detailed, that substance is proposed to be regulated by this law. The way international commands and other military bodies are established and operated is governed by the way they are established and operated in accordance with the international acts and contracts concluded. The Government Regulation will regulate the name, seat, organisation and management of those bodies within the limits laid down in the international documents concluded. The first application of these provisions on the adoption and entry into force of this law will be a multinational special aviation programme. The Republic of Croatia has taken over NATO's capacity targets, the goal of the capacity that represents the development of an air component of special forces. Given that these capacity targets have taken over with the Republic of Hungary and the Republic of Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia, these four countries have signed a Memorandum of Understanding on the establishment of a multinational, special, aviation programme. The country hosts the international body that would establish a training centre for helicopter crews to carry out special air forces tasks is the Republic of Croatia based in the Zemunik military. The purpose of the centre is to train the crew of multi-purpose helicopters through theoretical and flight training to carry out unconventional tasks of special air forces. Our goal is to achieve initial operational capacity by the end of this year, and during 2020. Full of operational abilities and what is important, the long-term goal is for this centre in Zemunik to become the first NATO Centre of Excellence in the Republic of Croatia to train helicopter crews. So, for the first time, we would have a NATO center of excellence in the Republic of Croatia for training helicopter crews. The proposed law also lays down provisions relating to the protection of defence data and constitutes compliance with the specific regulation. It is also part of the provisions of the proposed law that are not technical in compliance with other laws and implementing regulations. The implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources to the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest you also support the amendment and addition of the Defence Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143910	Thank you. We've got six replicas, the first one's next, dear colleague Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143911	Thank you very much. Mr Krstičević, respected ministers, I am interested, you mentioned cybersecurity, a lot of this is said in the Republic of Croatia, I am interested in specific activities of this command, or how it increases the security of our citizens in the Republic of Croatia, and we see that the SOA has also made certain remarks that the Republic of Croatia is exposed to such attacks, I am interested in what resources and how does this command enable greater security of our country, or how will this specifically help make our citizens feel safer? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143912	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143913	Dear Representative and colleague Maras. And as far as this command is concerned, it's clearly a strategic command command, and that command is about to gather all the information, and it's about to manage all the activities, the resources that are related to cyber defence. We have so far had within the Ministry of Defence on very many works of this activity, and precisely with the aim of pooling resources, we have watched and how other countries do, wanted to bind all these meanings of ability and precisely from this command to give coordination, give direction, give command, give management, give all that prevention that is needed and I think that in the current development of the Croatian Army the time has finally come for this command.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143914	Thank you. Let's go to another replica. Dear colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143915	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers when we created the Croatian Army in Kranjcevic in '91. We had no idea then that we would become an international entity from an international facility. Today we are changing and supplementing this law because of the three key things that you've been talking about because of the international military command related to the cyberspace command and the fact that they're related to the Ministry of Defense. You said one thing that Croatia is actually getting a NATO pilot training centre helicopters, which should be big news today in Croatia rather than relativizing that part. Tell the international military command, this would be the first international military command, what does Croatia get? Strengthen your safety? What about the costs, which is related to the security of the Republic of Croatia's borders precisely because of this international military command.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143916	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143917	Well, dear colleague, what you said, you must know that this year we have marked 10 years of RS membership in NATO, and I think it is good that we have managed to get to that position that Croatia can establish this command for cybernetic space and that we can start setting up a multinational training centre for the training of helicopter crews in Zemunik. In particular, it is good for the Croatian Army to develop helicopter crews but it is certainly good for the development of NATO partnership, and it is certainly good for the security of the Republic of Croatia. As far as costs are concerned, certain costs exist, part of the costs will be submitted to Croatia and some of the costs will be invested in Zemunik, and that way we will cover the part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143918	Comrade Kirin, here's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143919	Dear President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. The Croatian soldier is the most important part of the Croatian defence system. Croatia has been through the history of Nikola Šubić Zrinski, Trenkov's Panduro, the Croatian Ban Josip Jelačić, and in a recent history today, as part of the International Forces, recognized by top soldiers. It has also been recognized throughout history by quality military pilots all the way to Perišin under a multinational air programme, Zemunik will be a center for theoretical and flight training, for carrying out unconventional tasks, air, helicopter forces. How's the implementation of this program coming along?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143920	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143921	Well esteemed MP, so the program goes, you saw that the goal this year is the initial ability, the agreement is signed from these four states, the activities are going well and here at the end of the year all these ministers will come to Zadar and then we will show the initial operational capacity of this multinational training centre and next year the goal is just to reach full operational capacity.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143922	Thank you. Now it's my dear colleague Miroslav Tudjman's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143923	Thank you. Mr. Minister, this law stipulates that unauthorized recording and monitoring of military facilities is prohibited, but it seems to me that this law could only remain formally on paper unless the provisions on neutralising and blocking these drones and drones are introduced because otherwise we will be able to punish only those whose owners are identified and found. You are also in the principle of the Homeland Security System, this problem that is identified here by this provision can also be reflected in other areas of abuse, the use of these drones. So I'm interested in whether the government and you, as head of the Homeland Security System, are planning to pass a whole law that would concern the use of drones or unauthorized use of drones?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143924	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143925	The Honorable Parliamentary Representative and fellow Professor Tudjman, we're working on it, just to fully address this issue of protection of military space or military, military.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143926	5th replica, dear colleague Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143927	Dear Mr. Minister, clearly that the helicopter training centre of our pilots is something of value but what concerns me is the issue of cybersecurity command, or the question of how much this command overlaps with the powers and military intelligence agencies and our SOA. And what also worries me is how much this command will be only related to military and military facilities and how accidentally or not accidentally it will spread to the civil sector. I'm not sure what this law says is a very clear distinction as to what this cybersecurity in the military will do and how limited it will be to the area that needs to be, and here's the SOA's comments, and they're particularly interested in the military intelligence agency which is the difference. One and the other. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143928	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143929	The Honorable Parliamentarian, so you know he's been in continuum since '90, '91. The Croatian Army is developing and I think that today 2019 I think it is time to form a cyberspace command, clearly that we are in the preparation of this proposal, the structure, we have talked to everyone, therefore, this command then military security intelligence agency, security intelligence agency, all of them will cooperate, it is clear who needs to do what, and I am truly happy that the Croatian military systematically, organised into cyberspace. You know that today's cybernetics and the primary task of this command will be the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defense, and as far as the civilian part is concerned, the agencies, the services responsible for that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143930	Thank you. Let's go to the last line, dear fellow Music, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143931	Thank you, President HS. Dear General Krstičević, you mentioned the security paradigm is changing in the world, and even with us, I fully agree with you, this cyber defence, thank you for going in that direction, for modernising, for our army to be safer, for us to have the technology now present in the world. I could just say that in the last 2-3 years. You have made a very, very great deal for the Croatian Army, you have opened up some military facilities that have been closed, in fact which have not been, and I thank you for that, Vukovar, Ploče, Pula and others I hear, Varazdin and I think you have done very, very much and that our army is going in one right direction, in one NATO direction where we will be safer and of course and with this cybernetic system we will be more secure, then we will be able to look at our borders and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143932	Replication response. There isn't. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're starting the debate, the first Mr. Angelko Strick is in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143933	Vice-President HS, Croatian Deputy Prime Minister with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which will be supported by the HDZ Representatives' Club. We are witnessing that today's society is increasingly relying on networking and the use of information systems, which makes the area of cybersecurity a significant global growth. The Republic of Croatia recognises the importance of this area and has set up a strategic framework for cybersecurity by adopting a national cybersecurity strategy and an action plan for its implementation. As far as this area is concerned, we are told by the legislative framework covering this area, the Security Intelligence System Act, the Information Security Act, the CRI Act, the National Cyber Security Strategy, the National Security Strategy, the National Security Act, the National Security System Act, the Cyber Security Act of Operators of Key Services Operators and the Digital Service Provider. In line with the national cybersecurity strategy and the action plan for the implementation of the national strategy and cybersecurity of public sector bodies, certain measures stemming from the strategy must be taken and shall support the planned objectives in order to increase security, resilience and reliability in cyberspace. The proposed law proposes to regulate the normative framework and rules of action in cyberspace for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. it is necessary to build a safe, completely uninterrupted and effective use of information communications systems, requiring strong, effective and resistant cyber infrastructure. For this very reason, the cyberspace command as a unit of the Croatian Army is being established. Also, for the sake of economic, rational and effective fulfillment of the international commitments undertaken, the states of allies shall coordinate and connect, and common solutions shall be found in the framework of multinational cooperation. Given the expansion of the defence co-operation of the Republic of Croatia, not only with NATO member states, but also within the framework of the common security and defence policy of the EU and other international organisations to which the Republic of Croatia has joined on the basis of international agreements, the need to regulate how international military command is established and other military bodies, thus allowing for more intensive cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the states of allies, both in the framework of bilateral and multilateral cooperation. The provisions of the Defence Act in relation to the establishment of international military commands and other military bodies in the Republic of Croatia are not detailed, and that substance is proposed to be regulated by this law. This law regulates the procedure for the establishment of international military commanders and other military authorities, and neither international military commands or other military bodies or staff employed in them, confers immunity from national legislation or privileges, but regulates their legal status in accordance with the international acts concluded and international contracts. As the minister said in the introduction, the first application of these provisions will be a multinational special aviation programme in co-operation with Hungary, Bulgaria and Slovenia. I would also point out in the end that there are currently about 25 crisis hotspots in the world, that they are not shutting down, but are still active, they are opening up new and precisely and for these reasons, the Republic of Croatia must do everything possible to protect its borders and its population. As stated in the introduction, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143934	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Zdravko Ronko's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party, Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143935	Dear Vice-President, distinguished ministers, esteemed associates, this bill, in addition to provisions which determine the protection of defence data, and clean.../incomprehensible/... and nomotechnical compliance with other laws and implementing regulations, includes two relevant segments. The first is the evaluation of international military commands and other military bodies whose task is to develop common capacity goals. We accepted this by joining EU, NATO and other international organisations where, under the North Atlantic Treaty on the legal position of their forces, the Republic of Croatia also joined the protocol on the legal position of international military commanders, which was confirmed in the Croatian Parliament on 10 July 2009. So far, the establishment of international military commanders has not been specified in detail by the Defence Act. In view of the expansion of the defence co-operation of the Republic of Croatia not only with NATO but also with the common security defence policies of the EU and other international organisations, the need to regulate ways to establish international military command and other military bodies is indicated. This proposal is exactly what it offers and that is why you will have support. The second moment is to edit the normative framework and rules of action in cybernetic space for the needs of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, which is also an integral part of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia as well as an action plan for its implementation. So it's a constant concern about a strong effective and resistant cyber-infrastructure, a team and more because the Ministry of Defence as the holder of the power of the E6202 cyber-defense defense has been taken over in the framework of NATO's defence planning process, in fact, to develop a series of new capabilities in the defence ministry and the armed forces, which therefore have a need for normative regulation as well as rules of action. So in this case, you have full support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143936	Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Franco Vidovic in front of the SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143937	Dear Vice-President, respected ministers and associates, so as we would understand in the SDP Club of Law, the amendments to the Defence Act are in principle due to compliance with the Paris Charter adopted by this assembly if I am not mistaken in 2009. It regulates in principle the legal position of international military commands as well as the addition of the provisions of the agreement between the parties to the North Atlantic Treaty. In addition, the proposed law on what the minister also spoke about is proposed to regulate the normative framework and rules of action in cyberspace for the purposes of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and to prescribe the responsibilities of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia concerning the operation and development of capacity in cyberspace for the needs of the same. The proposed law also provides for provisions relating to the protection of defence data and is in line with the specific regulation and the basis of all of the above, since we believe that this is also positive for the development of the SDP Armed Forces, the SDP Club will support these amendments and additions in the first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143938	Are you done? Can we go on? Thank you very much. Now it's Mr Miranda Mrsic's turn in front of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143939	Dear Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Ministers of Today's Law that harmonizes certain terminology might be understood as technical harmonisation, but it is also time to talk about some things in Croatia that concern the law itself, but also other laws that are part of the defence system itself. What I wonder is where Croatia is today, who is threatening Croatia today, and when we allocate more resources to defend and establish another command centre. It is in agreement with international, NATO and international co-workers, but the question again is why Croatia has allocated so much funds to the defence ministry. Once again from this place, I want to encourage thinking about how we need the defense budget. We will very quickly adopt the 2020 budget and what I am asking from this pay phone is whether we need the militarisation of Croatia. Minister Krsticevic has acted as a soldier, not as a civilian defence minister ever since he came to the head of the defence ministry. In the world, it is rare that the defence minister was in active military service, but that is why Croatia is the exception, and at least for that. In the golden age of democracy, defence ministers were appointed people who do not come from the world of the military but political figures whose task is to ensure the legal functioning of the military machine. Our minister said the other day that, as defence minister, he would not comment on the results of the election, which is not appropriate for one member of the government, Deputy Prime Minister and apparently that Minister Krsticevic should be cleared whether he is a soldier or a civilian. We thought that the demilitarisation of Croatia was a non-refundable process and that it would not happen in the last few years because 10 years ago the military was leaving the military, retreating from the untransparent hectares of the country, surrounded by high and barbed wires in which life should have been moved according to these plans. And that life that was supposed to live in those barracks, unfortunately now lives in Ireland, Germany, and we'll probably never bring them back. Why in Croatia, we increase the inappropriate defence budget from year to year at a time when there are no direct threats to the integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia itself and at the same time in Croatia 87% of pensioners live at risk of poverty if we do not give them transfers from the budget. Who's threatening us and who's pushing us across the border? The argument that is being manipulated throughout the public is the question that Croatia must single out 2% of GDP for defence, however, it is a recommendation from NATO and it is not written anywhere as a commitment that each country must single out 2%. It's an informal agreement they're insisting on for now, but here, only 5 out of the 27 NATO members singled out 2% of GDP or more for defence. According to the latest data from the European Statistical Office, relatively least for defence needs, you will not believe those whom our youth has gone to in these last two years, and these are the Irish. They single out only 0.3% of GDP, much less the people of Luxembourg, 0.4%, Malta and Austria 0.6%. So, Ireland's second country to our citizens who have moved out is only 0.3% of GDP for the defence budget. On the other hand, 2.4% stand out for the military needs of the Estonians and 2% stand out Greeks, and clearly, there are large countries, the forces of Great Britain and France, but on the other hand, Germany singles out 1.23% of GDP. According to the latest data, Croatia is with 1.71%) of GDP, which is set aside for defence in 10th place, so in front of its neighbours, very strong neighbours and countries that have much more money than Croatia, I have already said that Germany stands out 1.23%. Where Croatia singles out less than other NATO members, we should be concerned about the future of developing Croatia's education allocations. Croatia is the only NATO member to single out least for education, why so, whether the Croats are miles of rifles and planes, or rather of knowledge. Especially in the eye of the incursion that the Ministry of Defence has shown as a cost of military budget because here, sees devils, for the first time, the pensions of defenders and the pensions of professional soldiers have entered into the Croatian military budget and when we talked about the need to separate the pensions of defenders, so all those in the category of pensions under special laws or preferential pensions, HDZ then very smoothly refused and changed the Law on Pension Insurance, but when it is necessary to report what is the military budget, then all the funds paid out in those categories are clearly included in the budget of the Ministry of Defence and not in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System. This further proves that the path we took to separate pensions was the right path because here, if we did not convince, obviously that he convinced NATO, so now Croatia is in the defence budget when reporting to NATO, then reports in a way that both the defenders' pensions and the pensions of professional soldiers are in the system. A government that proposes a budget like this in a country where more than 1/4 people live at the risk of poverty and social exclusion that faces the emigration of young people, unemployment, poor educational outcomes and a bad business environment, a health system crisis and growing inequality, escapes these real and measurable problems by believing that we should be built a very strong army that will defend us from some phantom enemy. In this year's stake is 1.7%, probably in next year we will reach 2% with the goal of reaching that imaginary border that is informal, which is never agreed as a firm stance but is something that countries should achieve. People are running from Croatia, people are telling us that it is not good to live in Croatia, people are killing themselves because of budget malversions, and competent institutions are silent. Investments in science and education are embarrassing in relation to other EU countries, but we are therefore investing in rifles, planes that General Krsticevic and Minister Krsticevic orderly deliver to us. So here, too, he would ask the question, since the minister is here, after the debacle with the planes we bought and we didn't buy, he's supposed to be in business with the other two or the same two producers. The minister didn't do the job by the end of last year, and at this time last year he assured us that everything was going according to plan, and now we need to get new planes and what's the question, I hope the minister will answer us, too, at what stage is this job of the century because six months have passed, there are no movements in that area, and apparently what happened again is going to happen because, I'm asking you, would you fix a master who didn't fix your car the way you were supposed to fix it, give the car to fix your car again? Would you go back to treatment for a doctor who did not treat you well? And I'm asking one question today, and it's a question of who's going to defend us against this HDZ and the burned country that they're going to leave behind, and it's absolutely certain that investment in the defence budget shouldn't be the priority of this country. The country's priority should be knowledge, education, because that's all this country's gonna get out of the situation it's in right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143940	Thank you very much. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Pusic in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So, as far as you can see, two are the fundamental objectives of these amendments and the addition of the Defense Act. The first or tasks to be prepared for legislation. Therefore, the first is the further development of regulation related to the establishment of international military commands in multilateral military alliances in which Croatia participates and the second is cybersecurity and defence. So at first glance, two relatively simple, easy to define, but certainly not easy to do. In this context, this first task, therefore, is to further develop regulation for international military command, I think it's out of these two easier tasks. For NATO, it's already regulated by the Paris Agreement that we ratified somewhere in 2009, I think. Development, however, could be expanded and, in some ways, this is also about the EU's common security and defence forces. I think it is important at this point because of many changed global circumstances that may change over time, depending on what is said to be a political constellation, global and in certain key countries. However, in recent times, this experience has shown that common European, security and defence forces are an important factor, that they should not be ignored because there can be circumstances in which it is something that EU Member States can primarily and need to rely on. So in that sense, we need it. The law also states that one subject that I do not know how much has fallen into your eyes, but which is controversial at many levels, which is that in those international commands which would then be in perspective some of it possibly in Croatia, that military and civilian personnel do not have immunity from national legislation, but their status is regulated by international contracts. That is what she would say, it seems benign, but it was a very controversial point in joining many international agreements by the United States and by some other major countries. For Croatia, this is unusually important, especially if you have such a command on your territory and on your territory. It is important that national legislation and the rules applicable in the event of any incident on military and civilian personnel is very transparently defined. As I said, the task should certainly be done, but less complicated than the two that are mentioned or further regulated in this law, let's say. The second is cybersecurity and defense. It is a very sensitive issue, however, from this law, it seems to be something perceived as the defence ministry's topic. For Croatia, the main danger of cyber attacks is not an attack on the military and military institutions, but on civilian institutions. It's not just a question of Croatia. It's a global question, like... The US report showed, civil institutions and particularly democratic institutions and democratic procedures are the main addressee or target of cyber attacks at the moment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore, from cyber attacks and in order to increase cybersecurity, a much wider number or a network of institutions than the military itself must be networked, which I repeat is not the main objective of this type of attack. It is not clear in this law whether it is something, therefore, that the military will coordinate or the Ministry of Defence co-ordinate, but a whole series of institutions will be involved. Either the Ministry of Defence and the military will have their own center or their instruments to defend against cyber attacks and increase cybersecurity, and we, as a country, will have to have something extra and new. So I would ask you to say something about this, because it seems to me that Croatia is quite late in this respect, and it is wrong to treat cybersecurity exclusively or only or even primarily as a matter of the Ministry of Defence and Military Security, since it is primarily a question of the security of society and security of democratic procedure, which, not only in America but throughout Europe, is on the impact of cyber attacks in the last few years and at this point, seems quite strong, even in countries like the UK, for example, in the case of all the problems that have arisen with Brexit. In other words, cybersecurity cannot be done exclusively from the military perspective and neither primarily from a military security perspective, but primarily from the perspective of the security of political institutions and the defence of political institutions, so a whole series of institutions that must participate there. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143942	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Stjepan's turn to watch out for the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143943	I would like to thank the esteemed chairman, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Very briefly, I will not go into a trap here, speaking about the budget, given that it is foreseen in the final provisions of this law that these amendments do not require additional financial resources, but we have in the next points and the report, so we will look a little more at the budget and what it should be and how it should be. First of all, of course, we welcome the adoption of this Law on Defence in that, the amendments and the additions, in that, to its main two specifics, that is cybersecurity and, in fact, the establishment, the possibility of establishing international military command and other military bodies because, as the minister himself said, it opens the door for the establishment of an international, i.e. the right word is said by the International Military Training Centre for helicopter crews. So as a host state, we get a great opportunity here, we know what it means in those areas of development and local environments, but also through certain economic benefits of people coming and organizations and the existence of such things, and to the acquisition, logistics, and everything else. And I think it's already the main indicator and announcement two, donations of two Black Hawk helicopters that are somewhere around 350 million kunas worth, which absolutely increases our readiness. And you don't have to say that in those 2% and when you're looking at a military budget that includes Canadians, if I'm not mistaken, but also other military means of transport used in all major accidents, and here it is harmonised in this law, in the Civil Protection Act and, of course, helicopters used for medical purposes. So we have other benefits besides the security of the budget itself and we need to invest just when we're talking about helicopters, and I think it's very important and I hope that it will liven up and that further development that we're talking about, helicopter units when we talk about medical emergency aids. So I think that absolutely this establishment needs to be welcomed, the basis for this is the international, of course contract, that is, the 2009 Paris Protocol, and we as a Parliament must always allow foreign troops or foreign soldiers to be given permission, and this is how we legally incorporate them to have a permanent permit in the area of the Republic of Croatia according to strictly certain norms. And there's absolutely what's also there, and that's what my colleague and Pusic said there is no, they don't enjoy any special benefits or immunity from these soldiers or persons of the military who are here. So we thought absolutely about everything and that's what needs to be welcomed because exactly as many of these reference centres as possible, as many of these centres of excellence and training as possible, it will certainly improve our only soldiers and combat status or preparedness, but thus also security and have that other economic effect that is good. And this second part of the arrangement, which is proposed to regulate the normative framework and rules of action in cyberspace, is an extremely big threat, we know it and well that it is regulated here, and thus also draws attention and legal solutions that through and through the Ministry of Defence and all the armed forces act in protecting cyberspace that really becomes a polygon for that so-called. The invisible work with very visible consequences and we must be prepared to do so and we must be aware that it is a continuing threat, a constant threat, as well as the very act of terrorism we see in those worst effects, also this as one possibility and terrorist attacks through cybernetic itself, in cybernetic space. Finally, the HNS Club will, of course, support these changes and we believe that it is worth it and to congratulate the fact that we have succeeded both the Minister and the team and the possibility that there is an international training centre in the Republic of Croatia and that we can certainly get a lot out of it, a benefit for all of us and in the ultimate line for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143944	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, she's gone, she's losing her right. Mr. Gordan Maras, you're losing your right. Mr. Angelko Striker, these are individual debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143945	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, as interesting as this subject or cybersecurity tells us one piece of information from an analyst who deals with this problem, which is that by 2021. At global level, it expects an online crime cost of about six billion dollars. Our security intelligence agency is also in its 2018 annual report. pointed out that the Republic of Croatia was targeted over the previous years by a series of cyber attacks, as well as by other EU and NATO members, and it was about attacks that characterized a high level of expertise and cover-up over the long term, a very complex organisation and plan of attacks that included careful selection of targets and targets of these attacks were government bodies and critical infrastructure. The complexity of these attacks assumes that these attacks are sponsored by individual countries, especially when they are targets of infrastructure, NATO member states and the EU with the aim of collecting data on their diplomatic, military and economic activities. When we talk about economic activities, I mean the defence industry. Also, according to some analysts of the 60 countries involved in the research, it is 18th place on cybersecurity, or still the Republic of Croatia stands well on this issue because this type of crime has not yet spread as in developed countries. The problem that arises in the area of cybersecurity is that the Republic of Croatia has few experts dealing with this area, but unfortunately these experts are increasingly going abroad. Also, our intelligence services are already, warning all of our public sector bodies that they are preparing for the EU's presidency when there are expected to be far more of these attacks, or that these attacks on the information systems of the national authorities of the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with other competent authorities to raise themselves to the highest level, because so far all the countries that chaired the EU have experienced more cyber attacks. So here's my appeal, and the purpose of this law is right here, going in that direction to do everything to make that part as safe as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143946	Thank you. Mr. Nikola Grmoya is on his way now. What? Mr. Miranda Mrsic was looking for a replica. Please, Mr. Miranda Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143947	Dear colleague Strick, what you've been saying has nothing to do with cybersecurity if I understand the minister well, so it has nothing to do with the cybersecurity of the military what everyone is saying, we're talking about the security of the Republic of Croatia as a country and other agencies, including the Central Intelligence Agency. You're in your discussion and you said what I said and expressed your suspicion that some things would interfere that this cybernetic command or cybersecurity command might, in some cases, tend to get a little out of the military's box and move on to the civilian part, which shouldn't be, and that's what makes me the biggest doubt about whether anyone in that center is going to play, and then go to this civilian part where it doesn't belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143948	Time. Mr. Uncle, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143949	Well, my colleague Mrsic, at the very introduction of my debate, stressed that I would give a broader review of cybersecurity because I find it simply impossible to share each segment of each of our state institutions separately, especially when intelligence agencies have made one, one recommendation that all our institutions, state bodies prepare for the possibility of more frequent attacks precisely because next year our country holds the presidency of the EU, and this has been experienced by all the countries that chaired the EU. Therefore, I find it impossible for each body to solve this problem separately, but rather that, in the synergy of all, they must give the best solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143950	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Grmoya's turn, he's gone, he's losing his right. And Defence Minister Mr. Damir and Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Damir Krsticevic will now speak finally on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143951	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs, thank you to all who participated in the debates, clubs, individual, parliamentary deputies and MPs, what I would like once again to conclude on this law. I believe that the issue of defence and the Croatian Army is a superseded question and that it is in everyone's interest to have a strong and capable army. You know that we did not inherit the army as some other states did, but that the Croatian Army was created, that a brutal large-serb aggression against the Republic of Serbia was committed and that all of us together were created primarily, and then later in all these triumphant operations of the Croatian Army brought peace, we brought freedom. Once again a great thanks to Croatian defenders for living in freedom and peace in Croatia today, and I say the responsibility of all of us in continuity, the Croatian Army is developing, it is a guarantee of peace and security in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I really thank you again because I see most clubs support changes and supplement the Defense Act and you've seen what the goal is. The goal is a stronger army. The first goal is precisely this cyberspace command, I think that this command is very important, important for the Croatian Army. And here I think it's good to do it right now. Others, another very important objective of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Defence is the formation of that international body or international training command of helicopter crews. You know how much our boys, pilots, technicians, helicopters help us, how much they helped us in the war, how much they did a great job in the war, and how much today. Here they are today doing search and rescue, doing emergency medical services and everything else, so they're helping the people in trouble all together, and I think our goal is to provide them with even better, even better training, and I believe that anyone who loves Croatia, who loves the Croatian Army, should support it. And that we came to that moment to do so with our partners within this NATO. Here, once again, thank you all for supporting these amendments and additions to the Defense Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143952	Thank you. A few replicas, though. The first line was sought by Mrs Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143953	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with associates I would first thank you for all that you have done and what you are doing in the war and now in peace to restore the dignity of the Croatian soldier, because we see that those who have not appreciated all these efforts that you are now doing to strengthen primarily the Croatian man and the Croatian state who will know best to resist all the challenges not to attack but to preserve its own borders, to preserve both human lives and all those who come to the Republic of Croatia. So once again, thank you for everything you do, and for those who want to degrade such actions, I condemn it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143954	Thank you. Would you like to respond? No, good. Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143955	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, you highlighted the importance of these amendments and the addition of the Law on Defence and Importantness of the Croatian Army to the Croatian State. From the presentation of some members of this high house, we have heard different opinions that no additional funds should be allocated to the military, that these funds should be invested in science or in something else, in one word that we do not need an army in Croatia. I don't agree with that opinion, and I'm asking if, if you support it, because we had a recent recent not-so-soon past to see how much the army needed us, how much we needed an armed army, and we know who disarmed that army before the great-serb aggression. Therefore, I welcome in every way investment in the military budget within the borders of the possibility of the Republic of Croatia, which does not exclude investment in education or any other The second segment of our society. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143956	Okay. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143957	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I agree with the HSS and I and everyone who has contributed to the Homeland War that it is important for Croatia to defend itself. This law enables further strengthening and equipping of the Croatian Army and in some new areas and certainly that educated, quality-equipped, educated soldier is a dam and safety for Croatia, but we are also presenting ourselves in quality international terms. In parallel, I expect this to be the way to open up the growth of the economy, both parts of the military industry and other related industries. And it is nice to see where companies from Croatia are represented and where we sell equipment, but there are other companies in Croatia who need help, I mean special vehicles Duro Djakovic and other companies in Slavonia who also expect help and your ministry to get their share of the cake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143958	Thank you. Mr. Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143959	Thank you very much. The Croatian Army is a Croatian pride in both wars, so they jump in peace wherever they need to go. This law points to some things, we have become a desirable partner and our allies in NATO, and perhaps today too little has been said about it because perhaps to someone you have made as a minister, he does not want to say them, however what his colleague Vlaovic said, I think now that this structural part of the Croatian army, which has risen to a large level, should have been slightly translated into this economic part. Why? That's why Croatia has the potential, I'm sorry that the process in Đura Djakovic around the armored combat vehicle has stopped at some level, I think we still have the chances as we have elsewhere and simply the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Economy I think we should work on that segment because we will also strengthen and show how much the Croatian army is worth to the Croatian state, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143960	Thank you. And in the end, Mr. Angel's Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143961	Thank you very much. Minister, I have already stressed on behalf of the club and in an individual debate that I absolutely support the amendments and additions of this law, especially when we talk about the joint command of international forces. In fact, Croatia has a strong defence industry and, of course, it is an opportunity for all of our allies and partners to have the opportunity to participate in our exercises at the same time getting acquainted with our defence industry, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143962	Thank you. I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when we get the terms, thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143963	Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Defence, First Reading, P.Z. No. 649th Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes are 94 for, 4 abstentions and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143964	We move to the following item of the agenda: - The Annual Defence Report for 2018 is submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 8. Defense laws. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Mr. Damir Krsticevic, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143965	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Honorable MPs and MPs. In accordance with the Law on Defence, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits to the Croatian Parliament the Annual Defence Report, which gives representatives and the public insight into the state of defence in 2018. The basic purpose of the Croatian Army is to serve the Croatian people and to all our citizens as a victorious army set foot in the Homeland War from the people and with the people. The Croatian Army is an institution that enjoys citizens' highest confidence according to a public opinion survey. This fact confirms tens of thousands of citizens when marking important anniversarys from the Homeland War as the anniversary of winning military-region operations and anniversary, the formation of Croatian army troops. The patriotism, sacrificialism and professionalism that comes from the tradition of the Croatian Army are the foundations of the values on which the future of the Croatian Army is built and ensures the lasting safety of Croatia. This Annual Report is a mechanism of democratic surveillance, a demonstration of activities in the previous year, the state and development of defence capabilities, the structure of defence resources, and the achievement of development projects and priorities. As far as our environment is concerned, space security remains primarily due to unresolved border disputes, ethnic and religious radicalism and related tensions. Under such conditions, the Croatian Army is a guarantee of the security and stability of the Republic of Croatia and of all its citizens with its equipment, training and constant improvement and development. Thanks to this Government, the defence budget continued in 2018 with the growth started in 2017, thus fulfilling our responsibility both according to national abilities and international obligations. The increase in the budget in 2018 was 445 million kuna or 10.2 compared to 2017. With the growth of the defence budget, we facilitate planning and accelerate the development of key capabilities through the modernisation and equipment of the Croatian Army. The capacity development process continued at NATO level during 2018 when the four-year NATO defence planning cycle was completed and a joint report on the development of the Alliance's capabilities was adopted at the NATO ministerial meeting. After drawing up the National Security Strategy and the Law on the Homeland Security System, a new strategic defence review was adopted in 2018. It provides guidelines for the action of all components of the defence portfolio and recommendations to form the basis for a long-term development plan. The long-term development plan of the Croatian Army for the period from 2020 to 2031 is in the works and is to be found in the Croatian Parliament in the second quarter of 2020. The activities carried out and within NATO were aimed at commitments stemming from the fulfillment of the defence investment vows. The Republic of Croatia is clearly committed to meeting its defence investment obligations and already stated an increase in the defence budget, so the 2015 budget was 1.17, in the structure of GDP, today it is 1.71 in the structure of GDP. The North Atlantic Council recognises the valuable form of investment in defence, alliance and contribution of Croatia by participating in a series of NATO operations, missions and other activities. This is also witnessed by NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg, who praised Croatia during an official visit to Croatia on 8 October 2018 for engagement and participation in international missions and operations. In October 2018, a memorandum of understanding was signed for the multinational development of the capabilities of the aircraft component special forces, respectively... , and as a sign signed by the Ministers of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, Hungary and the Republic of Slovenia, I have already said, this international centre will be in Zemunik, and our goal is initial... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] to reach these already, and the long-term goal is NATO's center of excellence for the training of helicopters... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the EU is concerned, the Republic of Croatia is actively involved in the EU's common, security and defence policy and is a member of the European Defence Agency. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As part of the development of the EU's defence capabilities, the Republic of Croatia is part of the EU's ongoing structured cooperation initiative and is involved in the newly established co-ordinated annual defence review. The Ministry of Defence was in 2018. take action to prepare, and to represent the Republic of Croatia with dignity during the EU Presidency in the first half of 2020, we continue to prepare in this year and I believe that the Republic of Croatia will do the job professionally. In cooperation with Romania and the Republic of Finland, a programme of precedents has been developed that highlights the expansion of defence cooperation and the implementation of defence initiatives, strengthening the industrial dimension of defence, EU and NATO co-operation, and strengthening efforts in a common security and defence policy with an emphasis on Southeast European countries. The RS within NATO has affirmed itself as one of the strongest advocates of the further expansion of the alliances to the area of Southeast Europe. You know we helped Montenegro, and now we've helped Northern Macedonia. It is therefore necessary to highlight the work of the Ministry of Defence and as part of regional organisations, forums, initiatives, of which we would like to particularly highlight the initiative of the American-Adriatic Charter A5. In addition to continuing co-operation on NATO's joint participation, the mission of excellent support for Afghanistan as part of the initiative has also been implemented joint training and exercises aimed at improving interoperability. In July 2018, the Council adopted Decisions (CFSP) 2018/70. The Republic of Croatia hosted a special meeting of the US-Adriatic Charter A5 in Zagreb as part of a bilateral visit by US Defence Minister and General James Metis Republic, where it stressed the acceleration of the integration of the remaining countries of aspirants from Southeast Europe to NATO. Bilateral defence cooperation focused on strategic allies and partners in the field of defence and security, thus the most important partners of the Republic of Croatia in 2018. the United States, SR Germany, the Republic of Poland, the State of Israel, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and neighbouring countries and countries of particular interest in regional security, Hungary, the Republic of Slovenia, the Italian Republic, BiH, Montenegro, the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Excellent bilateral relations with the United States were confirmed on the occasion of the US Defence Minister and General James Metis RH's visit in July 2018, who said he was familiar with Croatian contributions, the collective defence he highly values, and reiterated that he believes that the Republic of Croatia is fighting above its category. The certificate of excellent relations is also reflected in donation 2, two entirely new Black Hawk helicopters, or the Black Hawk, which will be dedicated to use during 2022. Excellent bilateral relations with SR Germany have once again been confirmed during my official visit to Minister Ursula von der Leyen in Berlin in June 2018. Minister after 2017 He's coming back to the Republic of Croatia in July of this year. Defence cooperation with Hungary in 2018 a new momentum is given by signing an agreement between the Government of the Republic of Hungary on cooperation in the field of aviation and anti-aircraft activities. Croatia's support in the process of BiH's accession to Euro-Atlantic integration, i.e. improving interoperability, should be particularly stressed because it is the only country 5 that has not become a NATO member. Since 2017 declared a year of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, work was continued to improve the quality of life and work of members of the Croatian Army in 2018. which was declared the year of preparedness and activities of the Croatian soldier. In order for members to be even better physically and mentally prepared for all challenges during the service, a special emphasis in 2018. It's put in the sports way of life. It is therefore important to note that in order to improve the conditions for the development and maintenance of physical preparedness, an important step has been made by obtaining sports equipment, props and devices distributed to Croatian military units. And two days ago we also opened sports facilities in the military Croatia Tigers. Since people are the greatest value and strength of the victorious Croatian Army, investment in people has continued in this year as well. The new Service Act of 2018 They were taken back and the existing material rights of members of the Croatian Army were improved. The fee for the guard allowance, 100,00 kn on the working day, 120 weekends and holidays, fee for field allowance 100,00 kn on the working day, 120 weekends and holidays, duty on duty 75.00 kn on the working day and 100,00 kn on the weekend and the holiday. During 2018 For these three fees, about 32 million kunas were paid to soldiers. Since 1 June this year we have increased the amounts for these 3 fees. Second, a very important measure that we have introduced for soldiers to sign the second contract indefinitely until 45 C.E. life, which ensures the safety of employment. Also, we have provided the right to compensation for housing for officers who receive the first appointment, thus correcting the injustice of the previous law. After 27. The existence of the Croatian Army, the adoption of the Law on the Foundation of Military Solidarity in HS created conditions for the establishment of a foundation for military solidarity. The Foundation was established to promote humanitarian action and support the employees of the defence portfolio and their families in all forms of suffering and endangering their social status. The Foundation is already working and giving money. In 2018, we continued to return the Croatian Army to cities, in 2017 we returned the army to Sinj and Vukovar, and this year, last year 2018 to Varazdin and Ploče, and this year we will return to Pula and we have enabled a large number of people to work close to the place of residence and thus improve the quality of their family's life. As in 2017 and 2018 voluntary military training was implemented in 3 regular instructions and the training was completed by 868 manuals. In 2018, the cash compensation for voluntary handbooks amounted to around 2.000 kuna for each month of a successful training programme, and since 1 January 2019 it amounts to 3.000 kuna. During 2018, 899 persons were admitted to the military service, of which 822 persons employed and 77 civil servants were made a major step in the rejuvenation of staff in the category of civil servants. In 2018, the process of transforming the Croatian Military University Dr. Franjo Tudjman to a higher education science facility. The transformation process will take several years, and the future university for defence and security Dr. Franjo Tudjman will be a pillar of education and scientific work for the needs of defence and home security systems. In cooperation with the University of Split last academic year, we launched a new five-year study, a military seafaring, for maritime officers, which has circled the education of officers for all three branches of the Croatian Army. So the Croatian Land Army has military engineering and military leadership and management, Croatian Air Force military airport and now members of the Croatian Navy military navy. The study scholarships, 54 students of 3 and 4 classes of Central Air Force, the Rudolph Pereshin Technical School in Velika Gorica and the Technical School in Zadar, where students are trained in specialist occupations of the aviation profession, have taken a major step in ensuring the human potential of the aircraft and helicopters of the Croatian Air Force. In 2018, it was continued with the setting up of the reserve and organized all 6 breeding units and completed the formation of the reserve units of the Croatian Army. During October, November and December 2018, the training of key personnel and critical military-professional specialities of 5 pedestrian regiments was conducted as training the combat shooting of the classed reservers of the First Infantry Regiment of Zagreb. Especially important for reserve training is that the reserves were included in the Velebit 18 exercise combined force and really thanks to the guys from Krapina-Zagorje County, huge response and 10 days of exercise. The Ministry of Defence implements measures from the National Gender Equality Policy and 36.70% of women were deployed in the defence ministry's leadership duties while there were 8.58% of women in the Croatian military's command duties. Modernisation of arms and military equipment during 2018 supported the improvement of the capacity to carry out the mission and the tasks of the Croatian Army in the Republic of Croatia as well as the achievement of NATO's goals undertaken in 2017. All equipment and modernisation projects shall, where possible, take into account the dual purpose of military-civil use, in accordance with the principles of the Homeland Security System on the integration and sharing of resources. For the purpose of equipping the modernisation through public procurement in 2018 1,058 public procurement items were carried out on the basis of 1,259 contracts. It is important to stress that of the mentioned number of cases of public procurement in 2018 none was classified by the degree of secrecy which continued good practice in 2017. This is what I find a huge achievement in increasing transparency and better quality application of the public procurement principle. For example, in earlier procurement periods, the degree of secrecy marked was over 50% of the items compared to the overall procurement plan. At the beginning of 2018, we signed contracts with representatives of the Croatian defence industry, which is a significant contribution to the economy and Croatian companies that employ over 5,000 people, and we are really giving huge support to Croatia's defence and industry clearly in this, and Đuri Djakovic and we have signed contracts with Đur Đaković and you saw that the company from the defence industry HS Production was declared the best firm in Croatia this year. By practice of signing the contract at the beginning of the year, we provide security to the domestic industry and help plan annual production, and we also provide them with all the necessary quality references and recognition for placement on the side of the market. The Croatian soldier today is fully equipped with Croatian weapons and equipment, which proves that the Ministry of Defence is an important partner of the Croatian defence industry and a generator of development and promoter of Croatian products on the international stage. Out of the major modernisation projects in 2018, I highlight the equipment of 8 combat armored vehicles of Patria with a remote-controlled armed station, a 30 mm cannon and an anti-armed Spike missile system, we expect 4 vehicles by the end of 2019, and the other 4 by the end of 2020. In December 2018, a prototype of coastal patrol ship 31 Omiš was received in the Coast Guard System of the Croatian Navy. The ship is currently in a prototype phase conducted by members of the Croatian Navy. After completion of the prototype tests and on the basis of the results, a decision will be taken to continue the construction of other coastal patrol ships. During 2018, realized donations of spare parts and equipment for Kiowa Warrior helicopters by the U.S. government. During 2019 a delivery of general and special tools is expected while closing this project is expected in 2019, '20. by reaching full operational capacity. After the modernisation of the Croatian Air Force by fighter aircraft was delayed for 15 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia decided on March 29th to acquire a multi-purpose fighter aircraft from the state of Israel. The decision was taken on the basis of a transparent procurement procedure, expert analyses and additional consultations carried out by the Department of Defence expert team with the United States and the State of Israel. The unanimous support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the procurement of a multi-purpose combat plane was given by the State of Israel by the Defence Committee of the HS and the Defence Council. Negotiations between the US and the state of Israel lasted until December 2018 and could not be influenced by the Croatian side in any way. The State of Israel and the United States failed to agree on the conditions for granting approval for... The State of Israel has officially informed the Ministry of Defence and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The process of obtaining a multi-purpose fighter aircraft was also discussed in the HS after the SDP's Representatives' Club submitted the Interpol, so I won't repeat what was said at the time. The government of the Republic of Croatia in the process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft has done nothing wrong, we have received answers to all the questions and all the necessary guarantees, as has been confirmed by most MPs in HS in conclusion to the Interpellation submitted. The government of the Republic of Croatia remains firmly committed to finding an optimal solution to equip the Croatian Air Force with fighter aircraft of a newer generation and we are working intensively on it. In 2018, a remont of 10 MI 171 sh helicopters was continued, and at this moment a remont of 6 helicopters was completed, while the completion of the remaining 4 helicopters is expected by the end of September and with those 10 and 14, MI 8, we will get 24 helicopters, which is for the first time in Croatia. Construction activities are continued, building adaptations in military buildings throughout Croatia with the aim of raising the standard of life of HV members. I will highlight only some construction procedures that were implemented during 2018. In the military 7th Guard Brigade of Puma in Varazdin, two accommodation buildings, boiler rooms, restaurant and external infrastructure were arranged and provided with conditions for the operation and stay of members of the Battle Puma HV. In the military 116th HV brigade in Ploča, for the purposes of the new HV unit, the Navy's right-wing infantry was renovated and adapted two accommodation buildings and a restaurant. In the military 1st Guard Brigade Tigers Croatia built a tartan trail and other sports facilities with the aim of ensuring conditions for maintaining the readiness of Croatian soldiers. Our goal is to provide the same sports content over several years and in other military units. As regards the implementation of the tasks and missions of the HR, it is important to point out that during 2018 HV successfully implemented all the Constitution of defined tasks. In particular, I would like to emphasise the implementation of the task of helping civil institutions, where the HV as an important component of the home security system has shown that it is always ready to help the people in need. HV members were involved with firefighters and in cooperation with the local community engaged in fires. Given the experience and lessons learned from 2017, it is important to highlight the improvements made during 2018 before the start of the fire season. There's an operational fire command in the Wilds. As part of the command, we formed into a situation center, thus getting a better flow of information, and thus faster reaction when the fires were stopped. The summit of preparation was the Security 18 exercise that showed the community, united action and synergy of all components of the local community and citizens system. The system makes each of us better, the coordination is better, we react faster, and this is shown by this year's fire drill Safety 19. During the HV firepower season, 2378 flights took place during which 504 hours of flight occurred. Land forces with a total of 357 members were engaged 3 times. The HV was also at the service during large snowfalls, and the dedicated organised HV forces with 665 members and technique were designed to combat floods. Of the other tasks to help civil institutions, I would like to further highlight the provision of drinking water to the population in the area of Brod-Posavina County, the urgent medical transport of the sick and injured persons by air, search and rescue tasks, and participation in honoring the deceased Croatian defenders. Activities in the implementation of the first HV defence mission of the Republic of Croatia and its allies were focused on preparation, deterrence, surveillance of airspace and maritime space and contribution to the Allied collective defence. In this context, it was also important to highlight Velebit's exercise, the combined force, whose primary objective was to check the capabilities of the HV through the implementation of joint operations on land, sea, air and cyberspace. It was the greatest exercise since the end of the Homeland War. In the exercise, numerous goals were realized, the fighting was carried out with new weapons systems, self-assuming hoods, Panzer 2000 and Kiowa Warrior helicopters, and it was important to highlight and successfully implement the RBS 15B missile. By carrying out military exercises Velebit HV has shown to its people and the world that it has a respectable army, well equipped, excellently trained soldiers who are ready to defend the Republic of Croatia and see in this year that we continue the intensity of all the exercises and you have seen several great exercises now happening in Croatia, exercises Immedate Response pa Astral Knight so now exercise Swift Response. Participation in missions and support operations... During 2018, the Republic of Croatia confirmed that it is a credible partner and ally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian soldier brand is recognized worldwide by all abilities and humanity and I really thank again all Croatian soldiers, officers and officers for everything they do for serving their people. HV members thus participated in NATO-led mission during 2018, excellent support in the Islamic republic of Afghanistan, the operation... in Kosovo, in NATO activities strengthened ahead in R. Poland, R. Lithuania, the EU-led Somalia operation, the Sofia operation and the operation... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, members of the Croatian Army participated in UN peacekeeping operations in the Western Sahara, Pakistan, India and Lebanon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During 2018 There has been an extended engagement in the peace support operation... in the Mediterranean and NATO's mission to support peace mission in Iraq. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the already mentioned exercises Velebit 18 and Security 18, the Croatian Army participated in 42 exercises, of which 11 national, 31 international exercises, and 7502 members of the Croatian Army participated in the exercises. We've had a number of extraordinary events together with this. Military police took place in 2018. implement targeted preventive actions and procedures, as compared to 2017. resulting in a reduction of extraordinary events. In total, there were 346 of them. During 2018 There were 253 subjects of tight responsibility, some of which were transferred in 2017. 208 items were solved, while 45 items were transferred in 2019. Among other things, 11 severe sentences of termination of the military service have been imposed. The Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army without exception sanction every major violation, conduct outside the framework of consistent compliance with laws, norms and rules. We find such behavior inadmissible and condemn. And really, believe me, whoever violates the discipline is sanctioned, we want the picture of the soldier to be a picture of an honest, professional and vast majority of people just doing their job. Finally, and it is equally important that information that the Ministry of Defence received the unconditional opinion of the State Audit Office in September 2018. the financial reports for 2017; The State Audit Office noted in its report that the Ministry of Defence’s financial statements for 2017 were. In accordance with the Law on Budgets and that the Ministry of Defence’s operations for 2017 carried out in accordance with the law and other regulations. We are aware that there are still many challenges ahead of us, but I believe that together we are all together, all soldiers, officers and officers, officers and deputies, that we have returned to the Croatian army the glow she had in the Homeland War. Finally, I point out that together with our partners and allies, the Croatian Army remains a guarantee of peace and security and the provision of development of the Republic of Croatia in freedom and prosperity. I ask all parliamentary representatives for a constructive debate, we discuss arguments and facts. I repeat again and believe that the issue of defence and the Croatian Army is a superseded issue and that we are all in the interest of having a strong and capable Croatian army. I propose that HS and you Assembly representatives adopt an annual defence report for 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143966	The replica was sought by Mr. Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned in your report that the withdrawal for the military is now 1.7 GDP, but it is necessary because of those malicious interpretations to say that it came from 1.2 to 1.7 because of the change in the calculation methodology, so that the pensions for members of the military are now included, so that it is uniform at the level of NATO member states because, among other things, Americans have said, they have 4 and something, and that large part of the waste is also on pensions. In fact, this is only because it would not be interpreted as how the government invests in the military and does not invest in science and education and does not take account of it in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143968	Thank you. The second replica of Mrs. Crescent. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143969	I thank the esteemed vice president, respected defence ministers with esteemed associates, so it is important from this report to apostrophe several important facts, which you have already pointed out in your report, but I think that during the debate it will open further. Therefore, the Croatian Army and the Ministry of Defence are a very important factor of stability and as you said, in this area, relatively unstable Southeast Europe and in this sense as one of the NATO and our associations has a very important role in both geopolitical and geostrategic terms. What we would like to apostrophe as the most important in this report is your work and employees of the Ministry of Defence to raise material, technological and any other conditions during the term of office of this Government and in human terms and in a technological sense and in a professional sense, and that is what can be done in this short replica as the most important during the term of office of this Government, or what is important in this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143970	Thank you. Mr. Josip Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143971	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, given your great engagement in the equipment of soldiers and the raising of Croatian military standards, and the maximum possible introduction of the Croatian Army of domestic equipment, you have spoken about the care of people, the transparency of public procurement, and I am interested in what the Public Procurement Act provides. short food supply chains for over a year. Is this mechanism used to provide food for the military and the police? This ensures the Croatian army quality, healthy and safe food. Furthermore, they would ensure the placement of goods from domestic producers, especially small OPGs, which no one in the world can blame us for. I wonder if you as defence minister can order logistics that this article, the short food supply chains, be included in public procurement and must be strictly used? It's the same to us no one. He can't blame the world. [[Intruder: Time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143972	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143973	Well, we have to respect him, if he's to complete and change, you're all here together in HS, therefore, HS is the one who makes the laws, before it's normal for someone to prepare it, on the matter of the honest and members of the Croatian Army what he has, we've improved the diet very much, here our people have dessert from two weeks ago, and then that single diet of soldiers, officers and officers, you know that's what we're dealing with with Plekler. So, the Ministry of Defence has a contract with Topler, and Plekler is getting all the supplies he needs, and Plekler is responsible for that diet and how much information I have and how much information is being kept in mind that most of it comes from Croatia and that it is produced in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143974	Thank you. Mr. Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143975	Dear Ministers, you said in your statement that Croatia has taken over international obligations and that this 2% defence separation is something that we have taken over in the documents, as far as I know in any document there is no such thing as an official figure that we must respect because other countries also did not respect it. Therefore, say in what document there is this view that Croatia must stand out 2% for defence. The fact is that other countries, again I say, that are far richer than us, stand out much, much less, and that Ireland, which our youth from Croatia went to, is 0.3%. It is something that Croatian citizens need to know and need to know what the funds are given through taxes and contribute to what they are used for. Therefore, in what document does it say that Croatia must allocate 2% of GDP for defence?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143976	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143977	Thank you. Mr. Ministers from the report is visible that good cooperation between the Croatian military and Croatian economies is particularly of the military industry and it is good to equip the Croatian army with the products of our industry. Of course I expect Đure Djakovic and other companies to participate further, and would also welcome the return of the Croatian Army to cities especially in the Croatian hero town of Vukovar. I expect you to think about it and some other cities deserve it as well, and what I want to point out is that food is also a weapon. It is also a strategic interest for Croatia to produce food in Croatia and if there is already a school scheme where the Ministry of Education supplies schools and gardens with foods produced on family farms from Croatia, then the model can also be applied to the Croatian military, hospitals and some other institutions and work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143978	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Angelko Strick will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143979	My colleagues and colleagues, the Ministers with Associates are here before us The Annual Defence Report for 2018, where a comprehensive, detailed review of the state of defence is given on 124 pages. The Annual Defence Report presents the i.e. gives us insight into the activities of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army in the previous year, the state and development of defence capabilities, the implementation of defence preparations, the structure and structure of defence resources and the creation of development projects and priorities. I would also point out that just now the report is a democratic surveillance mechanism that is common in parliamentary democracies, which at the annual level enables representatives and MPs in the Croatian Parliament to see the activities and actions of the defence portfolio. The report itself shows that during last year, the Ministry of Defence's budget grew, but more importantly, I think it is important to stress that for the first time since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, the State Audit Office gave the Ministry of Defence an unconditional opinion on its business. The report also shows that it continued to equip and modernise the military equipment of the Croatian Army, that this was carried out primarily for the purposes of equipping forces engaged in a number of major operations, missions and exercises and other activities in the country and abroad. Our soldiers, as I think everyone here knows, because all peace missions are approved by the Croatian Parliament, currently participating in peacekeeping missions at 11 locations, and during last year, there were 1,072 members of the Croatian Army engaged in the rotation precisely in these peacekeeping missions. A total of 915 members participated in NATO-led operations and activities, 18 members in the EU, and 137 members in UN-led missions and 2 members of the Croatian Army's police forces. By participating in the fire-fighting of life-threatening, life-threatening, emergency air transport of transplant authorities, prevention and elimination of the consequences of natural disasters and in search and rescue tasks on land and sea and islands, the Croatian military has re-affirmed itself as an important segment of the Homeland Security System. In fact, we are witnessing more and more frequent natural disasters, which is because of the fires, floods, snow blizzards, mostly none have passed without the involvement of the Croatian Army. Also, over the past year, 42 military exercises have been carried out, including 11 domestics, 31 internationals participating in the 7,500 members of the Croatian Army. I'd only point out two here, and that's safety 18 and Velebit 18. Safety 18 exercises have checked the training and training of firepower. Also, on this occasion, I would point out that the fire-fighting forces carried out 2378 flights and conducted 67 fire-fighting reconnaissances to fire-fighting aircraft in the coastal areas with the aim of early fire detection. A total of 357 members of the Croatian Army were engaged in the firefields as well. When we talk about Velebit 18 exercise, it is important to stress that it was the most important and main training event in 2018, a united military exercise involving all Croatian military members. The main objective of the exercise was to check the capabilities of the Croatian Army for the first mission through joint operations in 4 dimensions, land, sea, air and hybrid space. It was evident from the exercise itself that our army was equipped and trained for these challenges. The Croatian military has also been able to improve professional development as a return to the dignity of a military call, which led to the first time in 2017 the third generation of voluntary handbooks in the same calendar year. Such an interest has also been made in 2018 and I hope it will be held in this. It is also important to point out that the abandoned concept of the traveling army and the new unit schedule enables the return of the army to Sinj, Vukovar and, of course, Varazdin. Finally, we hold that this report shows that many new solutions are being introduced towards upgrade and improvement in the defence system in order to increase the functionality and readiness of the Croatian Army and the HDZ Representatives' Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143980	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Zdravko Ronko's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143981	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers, esteemed associates. In this comprehensive defence defence report for 2018, it can be clearly concluded that continued development of defence capabilities in all fields of action from increasing the budget, developing key skills through modernisation and equipment, particularly advanced combats, intensive training, training, implementation of training especially by the Velebit 18 combined forces, implementation of new knowledge, suspension of the military deadline and introduction of voluntary military training, rejuvenation of the Armed Forces to command personnel, in particular those trained abroad, continuation of capital investments, increased efficiency and readiness of the defence portfolio, international defence cooperation and recognised activities through NATO and common security and through the common security policy of the EU, continued territorial reorganisation, etc. In particular, it should be recalled that the year 2017, which has been declared the year of Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, is now being returned to them with the main dish of soup and salad, we hear that they have also received dessert. It was an incentive, that year to put a man in focus in 2018 and decide. Paying for work, not just paying for duty. Significant raising of standards and working conditions, significantly increasing employment security and a far better possibility of living planning of soldiers, officers, officers and officers through contracts for a certain time, what, guard fees, on-call duty, on-the-spot work, as well as increasing these fees, abandoning the traveling army, rotating command and parental duties, etc., etc., etc. All this says enough about the quantitative, especially qualitative achievement of the tasks put before the Ministry and the Armed Forces and thus increasing the functionality and readiness of the Armed Forces. Finally, in particular, it should not be lost out of sight and unconditional opinion of the State Audit Office for 2017 if, for those knowledge that I have and through the Committee, I am convinced that this will be the case in 2018, so this means that the operations of the Ministry have been carried out in accordance with the law, other regulations and internal acts of the Ministry of Defence and that such a relationship with trusted financial resources has contributed significantly to building trust in the institutions of defence and stability of civil military relations. After that, and the debate at the club has shown it and we will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143982	Thank you, too. Mr. Miro Bulj will speak in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143983	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honorable ministers with their associates, colleagues and colleagues. At first I would say what I would say as when I became a parliamentary representative, then the minister was a parliamentary representative were our goals, similar then, to bring the man, the Croatian soldier to the centre, meaning in the centre because the Croatian soldier deserves it and that is my obligation at the beginning and to say as a man who was a 16-year-old Croatian soldier, of which 14 professional soldiers, I know what being a soldier is and what is most important to a soldier, it is a motivated soldier, a soldier to whom he is held. And I think it's time to say and what was done... And before we were together, it was that these shifts were visible, and those shifts should be said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The soldier was returned to the centre of attention, gave the triba more, it was said that the rejuvenation of Croatia's military entry, however, while the material legal status is still much higher, the material status will certainly be raised, but this triba will always stop because those in which it is invested will always go, which are quality and who have the opportunity to develop on the market on another of their professional careers to something else. I would especially like to point out what is important, meaning the return of the army to strategic places I ate particularly proud, that time I always pointed out from this pay phone and in my first term and in this return of the army to areas which were forgotten and strategic for which reasons it was today unknown whether it was strategically significant and security this was a failure, it was not the area from Knin to Prevlaka that there was no meaning of the Land Army there was no possibility, this space was a narrow border from any threat, there was no reaction, not only war reactions, but also the possibilities of elemental disasters and all that the tribals took on in this area, but historically these were the ends which were military ends, such as my Cetinski end, my Sinj, and of course reduced the costs of the travel of people from that area which was a large number in this army and because of millions of kunas were concerned, and these are good things that they belonged to the Croatians where they belong to the historical priest. I have to say this because I come from the end, of course we are proud of Sinjska Alka, that we are proud of it and all the time it has meant military city and Sinj is once again a military city what is historically worth, and also in Vukovar the return of the army and to Varazda the return of the famous of these famous Pumas, so that it is good that the army is returning to the people because the army is of course part of the people and the army must not be separated from fellows and colleagues from the people, it must not be allowed to eat those people whom we are trying to greet from these speakers wherever they are former members of the Croatian Army, the winners, we must be proud of Croatian soldiers and those who now act within the system and in any way help these people. So that certain initiatives went in line with that, and I know what it means when you're on guard for 7 days, so you're not paid, after that you have this various exercise, duty, and when you're not paid, I know what it means for, and it creates uncertainty for a professional soldier, because a professional soldier is not just a job, it's a service, it's loyalty, it's a loyalty, it's a lot of things that we, who are in civilians who were not soldiers, don't know what it means to be a Croatian soldier. The Croatian soldier serves, exclusively serving his people. So, these things are good, and it's visible how much the Croatian soldier means, I said on the board yesterday, objects as the Military Dračevac was on the day of brigade 4. We were down when you look at how the Croatian military held up and while there was a 4th Guard brigade in the military Dračevac that it was something wonderful, it was held, and today it's a ruins and this way I warn all the relevant ones who took over from the Croatian army there was a military that it was a shame to look at it simply so much, I mean in such a good place in Split there is a military Dračevac, that it's devastating, that it's a disaster and how much it means returning the army, for example. Here I will say in the military Sinj which would also be in worse or the same condition, but there are indeed millions of kunas saved in that area only when we talk about a military in the territory of the city of Sinj. So it is seen what the Croatian soldier means, where the Croatian soldier is acting, how he treats the common property and how it is kept public well-being, but when they have missed military certain cities, the state, the local self-government that it has simply made a communal problem in the middle of Split, and it is simply ugly to see. I mean, it's a simple disaster, and I call once again relevant to the meetings of the Split government, Vojarna Dračevac, is dedicated to the city of Split, I don't know who else, to solve this municipal problem urgently, we have a disgrace in the heart of the city of Split. Let them look up to the Croatian soldiers of the institution, and they will certainly be better in society. Of course, I also asked some questions on this committee yesterday, you gave me an answer, and I believe that the Croatian public must hear if this report for 2018 has these shifts, but there are also things we would like to discuss and ask these questions which are of course certain ambiguities to explain and what we as parliamentary representatives can do. Of course I expect your answer only because it still means the Croatian soldier and you as the leading man remain in what the triba remains, in what Croatian harrod is provoking, and that is indeed who deserves it, it is the Croatian soldier. I wouldn't much about the little things here on the 45 and 46 pages of the report we have many unspeakable or misstated, interpreted information about the self-assuming hoodies. I said, yesterday you answered my board and I think the tribal would answer that question now and the public. The report said that all 12 self-run hoods 155 mm of PZH 2000 were delivered, thus meeting the needs of the Croatian Army for modern self-gun firearms with the possibility of providing direct fire support and using precisely guided ammunition. Let's be realistic 12 such hoodies are nowhere near satisfactory, but given the budgetary possibilities and weakness of our economy, we can understand that we are talking about meeting the needs of the Land Army. What we're not saying in this report, which is that we have means we're going through this.../incomprehensible/... when we spoke on the board I said it meant that it didn't, that it didn't mean the correction of software means this system, which is a major problem of that system, the fire management that was planned for it to be imported with all important, means the subjects of land artillery, reconnaissance and control of the battlefield, but it turned out not to be so. The report does not provide information about it, and we have the right to know what is happening to the project that is ultimately paid from over 400 million kuna, it is needed by the Croatian military, and we do not yet have a system of full capabilities as it has been declared that these hoodies will have. It has long been known that the hoods are not only a pile of iron that fires grenades at some range, but that it is modern, valuable, sophisticated weapon that reaches its full functionality only when it has the ability to receive information from other systems, reconnaissance and information, data processing, mediating on a networked battlefield, it is one of the most important segments of this system and it is paid now, means the project will eventually come at 400 million kuna, which, unfortunately, at this point towards information, does not work the way it should function and, of course, we will have information about it, which will be taken to make this project, these hoods that have been paid 400 million kunas, which are ultimately 400 million kunas, which are needed for the Croatian soldier, perhaps even greater needs of Croatia, which will be made to be, meaning to be for what it is paid and used and usable in the Croatian army that are very important. As you said, you mentioned in the report and multiple aircraft, you repeatedly mentioned that the problem of paper received from the United States in terms of the consent of the purchase of F-16 Barak, which you ministers have repeatedly pointed out that you had paper from, meaning the United States, I believe that this was supposed to be written in the report, so here if you can explain this problem which is very important and of course from the moment in Ukraine, although not your government, sent the planes that were, so sent to the remont, that they were paid and that they were returned in parts, means to me right now, it's 2015. either, so we have a problem now that this army of ours doesn't have that ability and after the collapse of buying these fighter planes, it currently has no ability, which means it should have. And I don't know exactly what has been done so far, but I expect it to be done urgently because as long as it has been, it has cost something, travel costs, something that has cost us and we simply have to talk about it, but we have to warn that the intention that it has been, as long as it's been brought up, you mention that the government's continuing drive and that the government is going to do everything to get that ability back, however, and when we speak, the triba is telling the truth that there have been missed projects, as has been a remounted aircraft in Ukraine, where the planes are driven in normal condition, combat planes are literally correct, and they've been returned to parts and it cost the Croatian state, and so this project that you've failed, in the expectation that the Croatian government will fulfil this obligation to train, means Croatian aviation and not to lose that capacity. How important the Ministry of Defence has given to this issue and how much public interest it has been, I believe the report mentions it. I see you mentioned there, I came across that the Croatian Army supported the football team, I believe it is not a tribune or a pen and that we should welcome the Croatian football team and that it is natural and that it is good to support our football team and other teams. Here I would also be with regard to the amount of murderous means related to ammunition, grenades, mines, rockets, etc., we have no information whether the Croatian Army has sufficient quantities, means these means of killing, what I know is that there is not enough ammunition, which is not enough to train, for exercises, especially a caliber then standard 5.56 mm and 7.62x51 of what is done in this matter, means complete ammunition and would say about the anti-aircraft defense very little in the report, and only there is a little shy mention that we extended the resources of the anti-aircraft rockets by 5.g., but it does not specify in which way. I think that, too, that component is very important that a little more public knowledge of the anti-aircraft defense should be pointed out that it is short range missiles, 30 years old and over. To explain a little bit how much Croatian PZ's ability is now, we'll compare it to neighbouring countries. So, the Republic of Croatia doesn't currently have an anti-aircraft defense or a medium range, but where the big range is. I think it would be very, very important until, very important to work on it, while, for example, Slovenia and BiH have an anti-aircraft defense of the medium range, the truth of the very poor state, and Serbia has, let's say, use the PDO of the medium range. So, this report will take place in 2018. Not one word at all states what will be done on this medium range field because the fact that we have in modern wars no longer leads to modern warfare air strike at small heights as it was in the case of 25 years ago. When it was the Homeland War, so I consider the tribal to be a little more committed to the anti-aircraft defense of medium and greater range. And in the end, I'd say, here's another 15 seconds, that this government boasted about exporting milk to China. The minister, regardless of whether it is a player, I do not think that the triba Croatian soldier would drink Croatian milk, the same products from the Croatian country, and that this should be our mission to you as a ministry, to the Croatian government, as well as to our parliamentary representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143984	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Franco Vidovic's turn, in front of the SDP Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143985	Ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, we at the SDP Club must remain abstention in the vote on the Annual Defence Report for 2018. Why is that, I'll explain. The principle report is well developed and well depicts the situation and the moment in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are located except for two large and essential parts. What bothers us is that to this day we haven't received an analysis or the causes of the failure of the job of getting fighter aircraft. Since this job has been declared the work of the century and one of the government's creative projects, we clearly expect a deep and detailed analysis and detection of the reasons and causes of the debacles we have experienced. Unfortunately, when it comes to this acquisition of aircraft here, the report repeats the old story and the old flossulas about the failure of the business without clearly mentioned arguments, without clearly looking at the situation. At the very end of the part of the text that speaks of multi-purpose combat planes on page 58 of this report, I quote: "The government of the Republic of Croatia remains firmly committed to finding an optimal solution for the equipment of the Croatian Air Force by combat planes of a younger generation and thus the survival of military aviation as a branch of the Croatian Army." By buying a battleplane squadron, Croatia is not only buying a plane, buying a much wider, Allied package in every respect, this should be kept in mind. There's also a so-called buyout. Offset no matter how quiet we all are about it. We are afraid that the basic problem remains and that Croatia does not know what it wants from its military aviation. Whether it's an air policing mission or an air force that can carry out precise impact on Earth's targets, we're also denied the answer to why a supersonic hunter is bought. Without a clear analysis of the causes and reasons of the collapse of the previous competition, it is better not to go as well as without clearly set goals. And then we come to another very important point of this report, which is to build a coastal patrol ship. Only one third of the pages are dedicated to this important project. The minister mentioned him here in a few sentences. What's heard in the towers here, I won't be here, but the news isn't good. We are really interested in whether prototype examinations have been completed and whether a decision has been made, if we continue to build patrol ships. We are not, unfortunately, too rich a country so that in one or four years we can obtain everything we hold necessary and related to the Croatian Army's weapons. In the very strategic context at the beginning of this report, there is a sentence "Despite the decline in the number of migrants arrived, the problem of illegal migration remains one of the key political issues for the EU." We think that Croatia as a maritime country in this context should seek its simple and migrants, as we know, are coming across the sea. There is also a question of what is more important to us than our Adriatic Sea, which is the only natural geopolitical space in which Croatia can and must dominate. As a maritime land, we don't care about the Coast Guard and the Navy for the security of the state, its citizens and its natural resources. Where's the analysis? Where are the strategies? We can sort these questions out until the end and unfortunately there is no answer. The experiences of the Homeland War showed that Dalmatia, along with the islands and the entire southern Croatia, was hanging on a thin thread that bound it to the rest of the country and that the thread was only provided with great sacrifices. In the security development of Croatia after the war should start from those models that rest on the integration of all areas of Croatia, land and sea. The integration of Croatia's land and sea is a fundamental prerequisite for its military and political security. How wrong it is in the perception of the importance of the sea is best shown in the words of those who say that the plates are a new gravity centre for the HRM. I can only be a strategic point. Since our navy has responsibilities throughout the Croatian Adriatic, its gravity centre has always been and there will forever be sea space on the joints of our coastal islands, so to speak. The front end of Losinj, Dugi Otok, Vis, Lastovo, Mljet. Only from that space, it, along with the Coast Guard and other branches of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, can and must act in order to be timely and effective. Only by its action and constant presence on the front islands virtually and realistically increases the operational and strategic depth of our country in that part that we do not have at the moment. As for the report itself, we don't have any other major objections. Croatia actively participates in NATO and EU-led missions, as well as in emerging associations such as PESCO and so on, that I do not list them here. And that's the job we do well. The important thing is that we're in the middle of something. Croatian Army exercises and joint exercises have gone well-expected as an education. I say expected because we firmly believe that the Croatian soldier, officer and officer is one of the best in the world. The only question is what kind of conditions we're going to give them. Mr. Minister, for two years, you occupied the entire Croatian public with the acquisition of multi-purpose fighter aircraft. For two years, together with the president of the Republic of Croatia, you occupied the public with the need to return the army. These two years, unfortunately, are irrevocably lost. On the side that we in the SDP think we don't need the manual army, and that means as much as I know most of the Croatian public. Let me get this straight. The report has been properly made, as has been the case so far, giving a good picture of the conditions and the moment at which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia are located, except for those objections. These objections are not even on the report itself, but on the implementation of those projects. These two projects, which are a project for the purchase of fighter aircraft as well as a project for the construction of an patrol ship, are so deep, important and far-reaching that, because of them, the SDP Club cannot vote positively on the 2018 annual defence report, but we will remain restrained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143986	It is now Mrs Vesna Pusic's turn in front of the GLAS and HSU Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143987	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues this is de facto a very interesting document, so I will start by saying that the growth of the defence budget in 2018 was almost the same as the total budget of the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Considering that it is a portfolio with one of the largest budgets in the Republic of Croatia, compare it anyway. Therefore, only growth in 2018 was almost as the entire budget of the Ministry of Culture, for example. I was a little surprised by the militarism in the debate here today at the assembly. It was said among other things that the Croatian Army is the pride of Croatia, of course, as well as Croatian science, as well as Croatian education, as well as Croatian culture. And should be the pride of Croatia and should be, have good conditions, but also all of these, all of these other aspects of Croatian identity. I'm going to look back at a few, let's say one 7.8 points that are referred to in this report. International defence co-operation and functioning within NATO frameworks and the common security and defence policy of the EU, and one and the other significantly, one of the main arguments, the strong arguments for our NATO entry, which I absolutely believed and believed always, is that it is one security umbrella that will allow us to have a certain level of security without imposing our own army. And that's a good reason for NATO membership, and that was an argument both in public debates and when we entered there. It is true that at the conference, therefore at the NATO summit in Wales, that 2% of GDP was presented as some indicative goal, it is also true that it is not a formal obligation. It's true that American President Trump is very insistent on it, but it's also true that it's not been formalized anywhere, it's kind of a goal, sort of a goal in seven years. So this is not the first I would say the most important obligation Croatia has in financing its infrastructure, I mean institutional infrastructure and activities. I don't think that, I don't blame it on the Ministry of Defense, just because naturally every minister and every ministry is trying to get as much money into their portfolio as possible and mobilize as much money and as much budget as possible because it makes it possible for them to do more of the things they can do. But it is the duty of the assembly as civilian oversight, as well as the Government to have a clear picture of its priorities and a clear picture of priorities must be that for a country such as Croatia of that size, a NATO member, a member of the EU who, according to the PISA test, the 15-year-olds from mathematics, natural sciences and mother tongues and literacy were in 40 places in 2015, and there is a risk that it fell even lower than that last year. This is not just a question of the identity of Croatian pride, it is a question of and endangering security, it changes the character of the electoral body in Croatia, and I will talk about it when we talk about the next point. As far as NATO's functioning is concerned, one of the things that was also the goal is for Croatia to produce something, genres of anything, to produce something for NATO forces, is simply one of the possibilities and one of the great advantages of NATO membership. Did something happen? I didn't find it in this report. The second part of the section on the functioning of the NATO framework is very little about co-operation within the EU's common security and defence policy. I have already debated one point earlier today that, with today's experience and in today's circumstances, there should be something where Croatia is much more active, much more present, and where there is an alternative, it is a European alternative, our main ally in military international missions and in performing on the world stage is SR Germany, it is its primary policy, it is a policy which the Chancellor has made very clear and unequivocally said, and it must certainly be more present and active. One of the things that is very mildly touched and has no information other than the usual things and forms of cooperation such as the Adriatic Charter is co-operation with countries in the region. The countries in the region are, of course, the most important and one of the most important American presidents in all history is known for the saying "I beat all my enemies, I turned them into my friends". Cooperation is the basis of it. For the Republic of Croatia in this sense some military security is, are neighbouring countries the key and the best prevention is co-operation and therefore on this subject we need not be a major factor even in European terms, certainly not in world terms, but in regional proportions we could be significant, significant factor and that is the area we need to concentrate on, especially in the effort and in this strategy to prevent enmity, prevention of conflict to repeat or paraphrasise Lincoln's statement. So that's one area, we've had cooperation with countries from the region in, say, NATO operations, EU missions, whether this continues, what happens, if we still have soldiers or command shot from these countries, and do we work with them? The fourth point I want to refer to here is the reserve composition. Everything that's said here about the reserve system is very similar to the introduction of a manual army or a military obligation on a small door. NATO, the public's position, is against it. So, that's something, NATO I think as a NATO membership was an argument that led to the reduction of the military and that we now have the kind of professional army that we expect and the kind of military commitment we have to make to a small door, don't let people do, I mean that's something that really should be clear about what this is about, and I can see by the reactions here in HS so that it wouldn't be so hateful to the MPs, at least to some, because it seems to them that, again, we're going back to the old political culture, the military is something that's safest, not to say that this kind of logic is present in our young people. Two researches carried out, one by the Faculty of Law, one by the Catholic University, show that, that young people believe that a firm hand and a strong leader are the best forms of government. Therefore, that what is desirable and that of the 4-year group by which the subjects are divided is the most supportive of this is between 18 and 19. The age cohort or age group, which speaks of many things, speaks about the quality of education, speaks little of frustration with the non-functioning of civil institutions or the non-functioning of political procedures such as, as is imagined and as should this feeling of lack of order, lack of structure and this produces that kind and confusion in terms of general and produces that kind of attitude. The fifth point I want to look back on is the report, which is part of the report that talks about custody in the military. All that has been said about being in custody refers to a Catholic religion. What happens to soldiers of other religions, what happens to soldiers of atheists? So, soul care must be a service to the military, and it can't be a form of group or social pressure. I'm warning you because no one, of course, wants to get involved in such things because it's sensitive and you can get back a sharp reaction, but it's a fact. Do we count that in the Croatian army there are only Catholics and no one else? That's what this report looks like. The fifth point, therefore, is the sixth point, excuse me, psychological studies, 10608 psychological studies. From the report I don't understand exactly what this is about, is it 10608 individuals who were somehow involved in some psychological examination or is 10608 different types of psychological research which is amazing, I guess it's the first but it's said because if this is the second, then there look soldiers like a population that is actually used for different psychological studies. It is not clear what role psychological assistance plays there. Psychological assistance is needed by most people and certainly by young people under special conditions such as the military. There are some 800 and some cases, but the report does not make it clear to me that these are people who are soldiers who have requested and received psychological help, so I ask in what way and whether these psychological studies are actually related or providing some kind of psychological help to young people who are in the military, which would certainly be necessary. And at last, there's nothing on that point about any education from that area, social psychology, understanding of society, understanding of the process that is happening here. So I have some other comments, the fact that there's nothing about planes may be the most important thing, but I'm asking some of them and the answers to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143988	I thank Mrs. Pusic for this debate. Now we'll suspend the debate temporarily. We are going back to the point of the agenda of the 2018 Defence Report, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, the debate will be submitted to us by a respected colleague, Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143990	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues, very briefly or try to be as brief as possible, we have before us the Annual Defence Report for 2018. What we had a chance to hear today during the debate, and a lot of conflicting thinking, anxiety, I'm going to stick to some of the things that I think are important here to say, and in general something. As for what we are discussing, we need to know that on the day of 31.12.2018, there were 16.881 persons employed in the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army system of 14,640 persons employed by the military, that's our ladies and gentlemen of the army 14.640, that's what we're talking about, that's what we're saying should be like this, less money, more money, one way or another. We're going to go on here and I'm going to mention some things that are really important to me in the last year, and what, of course, apart from the obvious and the very purpose and purpose of any army, and so on and ours, there are a lot of other things, from when we compare it to 2017, we have 114 less active military persons, almost 1%. Of which 2,241 is a civil servant and a tenant, I don't know why exactly 2.241 is a number that is in some proportions or not, it seems to me this much, there are 8 fewer, so 822 military persons were admitted during the last year. That would mean that 936 probably went on a regular basis, by getting conditions for retirement. 77 civil servants and tenants were also admitted, plus the minus says that 85 of them went away, so we have those 8 fewer, but these 114 less that might be more important. Furthermore, as far as we are concerned, perhaps before we go on the most important thing, why we are extremely important when we talk about and the budget of the Ministry of Defence and Investment in the military itself, we know that NATO's standard is a long-term goal that is set, so not what is required to have 2% of GDP, we have heard here with airplanes that haven't been realised 1.7 before, if I'm not mistaken, the EU average is 1.3 so we're hanging around here somewhere. But what's the case with us, I don't know what it's like in other countries, it's our case that in order to make that percentage bigger, which isn't even bad with a lot of things we put under the military cap. So I would also just point out some of the things during just last year to get that impression of what the army is doing besides our basic mission, which is, say, support in the quenching of open space fires, which means, within the actual support of the Croatian army to civil institutions in the country, and we are aware of it all, and we see it whenever there is a major accident, disaster, fire, flood or so, always the most organized part of that whole story of civil protection, and what most pulls out are our active military personnel, the military, which with our engineering, which with the machinery, which is just people who literally or who are shutting down or filled with sandbags. So it's something that we, which belongs to those 1.7 or she's all outings for the Department of Defense. Therefore, fire-fighting forces carried out 2,378 flights in 2018, namely 67 fire reconnaissances, etc., on the basis of the request of the then State Administration for Protection and Rescue were engaged 3 times, 357 members of the Croatian Army's fire-fighting forces without special forces were engaged 11 times. So, then we have the removal of the effects of snow storm 575 members, 25 motor vehicles, 20 working machines, then snow cleaning, etc., now that I'm not going any further, protection from the flood of 665 members and techniques I think it's absolutely clear, well we haven't had thanks to God for major, larger elemental accidents, there must be mentioning water pollution in the water system of Slavonski Brod where the machinery was also engaged and the 44,000 liters of drinking water were distributed, I think a tanker has about 6,000, and then there you can see actually how many times this and the machines themselves were engaged. And what's also very important, the urgent medical transport of the sick or injured persons by air, I'd like it to be there, perhaps through what we used to say to the Centre for International Training, which will be in Zemunik and in general through all these new and helicopters, that always be taken care of by that fast, urgent medical aid, by air means just helicopters, that as many as canaders in the fire protection system, as much as possible put just as possible under this funding or cap of the Ministry itself, the Ministry of Defense. Therefore, there are constantly two transport helicopters with crews and medical teams, during 2018 774 emergency medical transports were carried out, so almost 900 patients and over 100 escorts. Then we have this search on the rescue land, islands and seas, etc., etc. This is all we have to say so further, which does not mean that it is less valuable or less important, however, it is extremely important because it is both about the lives and the assets and the consequent and the security of our citizens that are caused not by any military threat, but above all by elemental disasters or accidents, and it is very important, it is very much financed from this same budget that should probably be smaller. I personally and we as HNS are not in favour of militarizing society and just to point out, since there have been some mentions here we never have and will not support any introduction of mandatory civil, not civil, but compulsory military deadline and I think it's clear to all of us. And I don't think it's going to work here either, nor will it be the goal. When we talk a little bit more about infrastructure, I would just like to mention that in 2017 if I wasn't wrong there were 222 objects, now there is 223 in the report I would mention there is one object that I mentioned last year during this report, it is the former House of JNA in Osijek on Zvonimir Street, etc. I don't know what purpose it's used for, but I know that by then standards in cities with more than 70 if I don't cheat thousands of people, the military must not be placed. This means that this object will not be used for a wider purpose. And I would like them to move into agreements with the Ministry of State Property, that these facilities be transferred first to their portfolio, if they are not given the green light to assign it to the local self-government unit, specifically the city of Osijek, to be executed in its own way if it is necessary to replace the city space, to possibly move the city administration under one roof, which would say to be more efficient, more efficient for our citizens that they don't have to go to more places as it is today. Or, say, put the building into economic use. We have a devastating growth of the IT sector in Osijek, now there is a single area to be built here with these squares, with that structure, certainly could be one entrepreneurial IT incubator in which, at least for those initial stages, it would provide a job also under one roof and have an absolute purpose in further strengthening this sector and the economy of Eastern Slavonia in which we all swear and in the end of the line it can absolutely be through one project of Slavonia and Baranja. I believe that this object is being used but I'm sure it's not being used in its full scope, so in the end line if something is being used something can be found an adequate replacement for some existing city spaces. So that's something I would certainly like to think that, about the perspective of many people have talked about, I would like to see something happen in this mandate and do something for that part of Croatia, first of all, and for the city of Osijek itself. What marked last year, of course, and I'm going to end up getting multi-purpose fighter planes, I think it's been said more and more times, so something's started to happen, it's tried, something that I think was worth trying. Because that's what I said here already and in the debates when they were, I think it was even an impelation because of it, so we know that we wanted to introduce new ways of trade, sales, whether it was aircraft, any weapons between NATO partners and not NATO members, so specifically America and Israel, and in general I'm saying where we tried to get a lot more of something worth a lot more. This is worth a lot more to know because the following offers were made for such new planes, which for other equally or similar qualities not to get into it almost double the amount. And that half a billion when we talk, I think it's about dollars, differences even more, I think it's... The next offer only of these, so when more than half a billion differences are added to the maintenance, parts, training, emigration of the simulators, etc., it grows to more and more, and there we are talking more than half a billion differences it was worth doing to save that money to Croatia and to meet the basic fact that our aviation, aviation technicians and people and everyone who are related to it, later and moving into the civil sector or coming from the civil sector to continue that tradition that we don't have to go to some air policing, etc., I think that's a much broader aspect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the project in general didn't go through, of course, regrettable about that TPT, so-called. where we didn't get the approval of the final manufacturer. And I believe that we should have tried, that maybe it could have been a little more subtle, but we generally don't have much to blame. We lost some time, someone thought we shouldn't have done it at all, so when we didn't, why didn't we, and so on, we're going round and round. I believe that we will succeed in further steps and next months and years to come because that is something that I think is precisely because of all the development and aviation and civil and military and all those accompanying contents that are important for our country. So that part ends unfortunately infamously, but I think we learned, we had one great lesson and a lesson from it all, in the end we're not the first to encounter such difficulties and in getting others, by other countries and much more advanced, long-term and democracy and people who have their armies and for years more than we have had the same and worse problems so that's something to say. I'm sorry that it happened of course, I wish we had those modernized planes, but unfortunately, a certain side said you couldn't get anything out of your own yard at a much cheaper price than they de facto sell further. So it's a summa summarum and that would absolutely end it. Of course, the HNS Club will also support the work and this report by the Ministry regarding the very defence report of course with this application for the military in the city of Osijek to try to run a model to see exactly how many users are there, what they are doing, what their needs are for accommodation and to find an adequate replacement so that this large space in the city centre is certainly much better used to develop the economy and thus create even more jobs, fuelled the economy and stopped emigration. And I think that part of the same army has one effect because this whole army move back to these smaller cities and the development of certain micro-economic communities, so logistics and all the things that these soldiers spend and spend their money there, they have the need and that they live, is... , so this would have the same effect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's another thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143991	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143992	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Minister, State Secretary and Associates. I'm actually going to start my debate where my predecessor, colleague Curray, ended up, and that's a question of getting the army back into cities like Pula. And say not everyone's happy about it. We believe that unlike what my predecessor was saying, military facilities are just as well as you've noticed about Osijek should be repurposed and brought to another purpose to economic, cultural, educational or wherever possible. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really don't see how returning the army to Pula or what you planned at one stage, which is to house a squadron at Pula airport, would help defend the Republic of Croatia. Given our NATO membership, I'm not familiar with the fact that Italy and Slovenia are at this point some serious threat to the security of the Republic of Croatia, but if I'm wrong, please correct me. But it's just one part of what I wanted to talk about with this report. The second part refers to announcements that have often come, not only from the honourable minister, but also from the president of the Republic of Croatia, but from the military deadline. The military deadline has not been returned to Croatia, but precisely because it is constantly trying to return to the small door, precisely because it is constantly being spoken of and precisely from such important places for the defence issue, such as the Ministry of Defence, i.e. the Minister of Defence and the President of the Republic of Croatia, as commander of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, should be repeated. The military deadline has been lifted and that's good. Reintroducing a mandatory military deadline, Croatia's security would bring nothing. And as once upon a time, it would take valuable time for our citizens to use for their education, work or something else. That is why it is not worse to speak of it, and therefore it is not worse to warn. Don't return the mandatory military deadline. This will not bring Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia any good. But let's go back to this report and go back to what was actually supposed to be the most important and most important part of the report, which is the explanation, which is why it failed, probably the biggest acquisition in the history of the Republic of Croatia. The biggest safe when it comes to defense, and those are fighter planes. We expected a little more serious explanation than you were giving when that job went down, we expected a more serious explanation than you gave when it came to the Interpol, we expected an explanation... with the lessons we've learned, and also with the passing of time that's been since the downfall of that job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What did we get? We got this. We got a page and a half of the text that says nothing, except that the Republic of Croatia has done all right, that the Republic of Croatia and the Honorable Minister of Defence have done nothing wrong, that there have been no mistakes on our part, and, let's say, no mention of all those letters, letters and warnings sent to us by the American side where, for example, in a letter of 17 January 2018, it warned us of all the problems that could arise with this acquisition of the plane. There is no word on this in the 2018 defence report. I guess the minister thinks we've forgotten all the lies he's told in that procedure. To cast fog, dust in the eyes of Croatian citizens. Every untruth he said in the process of getting the plane was soon denied. And the minister is looking at me now and laughing and having a lot of right because unfortunately, as in the case of corruption and everything else, HDZ people think no one can do anything to them. But, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, everything you've done and all the damage you've done will come at your expense. But to cut short because the planes are almost everything said, it's not the only one, the only thing and the only problem that's being ignored in the defense report. If only fighter planes were a problem, that would already be scandalous. But they didn't. Dear colleagues and colleagues, combat planes are dedicated to a page and a half in this report. Not so much of a patrol ship. And around the patrol ship, there are serious problems. I'm going to get into the genealogy of these problems now because there's not enough problem for that. But it is a shame that these problems in this report are not specific and does not explain how despite these problems we will continue to purchase. The purchase of a patrol ship may not be as important as its financial value as the purchase of multi-purpose combat planes. But it has other values. Because it's a purchase that was supposed to be carried out in Croatian shipyards. Which should give the Croatian shipyards a certain impulse to produce the technology we once produced, and then stop. And of course, we all have to be aware of that. If we're talking military technology that we want to sell to third parties, no one's going to buy what neither the country that manufactures it wants for itself. As for the success of HS Produkt, it was crucial for the Republic of Croatia to obtain certain types of weapons from them, as well as for patrol ships. If we want it to become a Croatian export product, then we must not remain silent about the problems that exist, but rather talk about these problems. And see how to get rid of them. But, Mr. Minister, it's an impossible mission for you. For you, problems either don't exist or are pushed under the carpet. But, of course, it's all on you. As far as I'm concerned, my position on this report is the same as my club's position, which is, I can't support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143993	Thank you. Thank you. Just a little minister. We've got replicas, and then you'll be behind it. The first replica, a respected colleague of Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143994	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Grbin, citizens of Pula were fortunate to have not felt the presence of a war threat in the worst way, however, I do not agree with you that the presence of the Croatian military may interfere in one Croatian town. What you just said was that Croatia should rely solely on its own forces, so each NATO member country is simultaneously developing its own national security and relying on its own defence system, that is clear. However, relying solely on how you advocate collective protection can be devastating for both the country and the population in that country, and therefore all NATO members are now supporting the development of their own national system and their own defence system, as well as the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143995	Thank you, colleagues. The answer of my esteemed colleague, Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143996	My colleagues, please make up your mind. Whether I am in favour of relying exclusively on Croatian resources, as you said in the first part of your replica, or I am in favour of collective defence alone, as you said in the second part of your replica. Look, in one minute you've managed to be so contradictory that it's actually sad, not even funny, sad. So, I also advocate developing a national defence component of the Republic of Croatia, which I was talking about, for example, when I spoke positively about the need to build patrol ships right in Croatian shipyards, but also for collective defence where we don't have to, at least I hope we don't, because if I'm wrong, I will repeat once again, please the Minister to correct me, protect our backs from a potential attack from Slovenia or Italy, because other reasons for returning the army to Pula I really don't see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143997	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143998	Thank you, Vice President. Deep... The opinion and the words of his colleague, Grbin, that the Croatian Army is not welcome in Istria or Pula. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I am now asking my colleague what is the intention and what is your goal of your colleague Grbin if you say who Croatian, here is a representative in HS that the Croatian Army is not welcome in Pula, I am asking you to tell the Croatian public and us here the Croatian parliamentary representatives why it is so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u143999	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144000	Thank you. Dear counterpart, the Croatian Army is welcome in Pula, the Croatian Army has been welcome in Pula since the first day it was founded. In the Croatian Army, for example, he was my father. However, at this point, I do not think there are any reasons for increasing the presence and stationing of certain military units in Pula or Istria because I believe there is no threat in this part of the territory. If we are going to talk about increasing investment in the protection of the coastal belt, for example about stationing additional, additional ships that would be in service and protecting shores as coastal guards and maritime police, I will immediately support it, and if such a proposal comes, I will stand behind it, but stationing the land army, which the minister has repeatedly announced or squadrons at the pulse airport is something I consider unnecessary and as a politician, but even more than that as Pulan and Istrian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144001	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Stevo Culey, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144002	If I were to pretend naive and blind to all the experiences I gained in the Homeland War, and also after that, and also in the work in HS, then I would be surprised at your disagreement that the Croatian Army would come to the Croatian Pula. But I am also very well aware that many did not object in Pula when JNA was there with bloody Captain Vladimir Grbin, who killed two Croatian soldiers in Losinj from behind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144003	Thank you. A fellow coat of arms answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144004	... Col. Culej, before you insult the Istrians for their contribution to the Homeland War, and you have done so over and over again, study a little history and study where the Republic of Croatia is located, the Kliman colleague will surely confirm it, was the greatest response and the slightest avoidance of service in the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, was that in Istria. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] The Istrians were always when it was necessary to protect our end from fascism, were the first to raise their voice against it and set up the Labin Republic, and when it was necessary to protect the Republic of Croatia from the fascism that came from Serbia, because it was fascism, we were among the first again. And you can say whatever you want, but in the people of my neighborhood, your speech can only cause grief, not because of what you say about us, but because of what's going on in your head, and I unfortunately cannot help you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144005	I thank my colleague, Grbin, and please do not in any way insult and disdain MPs and in such a way address fellow Cule. On behalf of the Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, Mr Damir Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144006	Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished MPs and MPs, here's an addition to the presentation of Mr. Honorable Representative Peja Grbin. I wouldn't want to be at your level and now with you or with you, however you want, run that part of the debate. As for the return of the army to Pula, the army will come to Pula, I see that it is insolent to you, however, just last year at a meeting of the Government in Pula, the government has made that decision with the support of both the mayor and the mayor of Istria, and I will call you at the 10th month when the opening of the military, the military will be called the Vojarna Croatian defenders of Istria, the same message, one thanks to the Croatian defenders of Istria for everything they have done, done in the Homeland War and the army coming there, it is again in function of peace, security and everyone will welcome it as each welcomed the decisions regarding the arrival of the Croatian Army and in Vukovar and in Sinj and in Ploče and Varaz, so that here, distinguished MP, will get you 10. mj., for which month works are going very well, intensively and this is the addition, the new ability of the Croatian Army, the centre for... aviation systems, meaning the ability that matters to control and sea and borders and everything and I'm really glad we're gonna do it and do it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the ship is concerned, only a small reminder of the ship, that ship, the coastal patrols, has contracted your government as if it were forgotten. You know how you arranged it? No paper, no project. To arrange one such ship without paper, without a project, and now you call us that we are, so be grateful that we are saving this project because you who worked on that project end up in prison and you are now giving us the blame that we are responsible for that ship being late and now we are questioning it to see what it is. So there's a lot of questions that you should be able to answer to the people who were on that project. And as far as the plane is concerned, I think it's all been said, about that question, you tried something, you failed, a very transparent process, there's no cost for taxpayers, and unlike again, if you're asking what your right to ask it is, you're threatening even in some way for a while and everything else, free. Whoever, whatever they can do, we'll always answer and we'll answer and there's no harm done. Unlike I'd remind you again, MiGs, who did this? Did we do that? Is that the HDZ radio? Money spent. I ask you a question, answer me, answer Croatia, why don't they fly? Or why the number that was supposed to fly, why isn't that how it happens? For what? How did you manage this project? All the time, you always want to attack and you won't come from you. Therefore, our responsibility for all of us is to strengthen the Croatian Army and we are doing so and we will continue to do so, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144007	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have a replica, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144008	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, my commitment to political work has been and will always be demilitarisation, and if the military is not necessary, then I think we'll all argue that it's better not to be and it would be ideal for us to live in a world that's turned to peace but we don't live and I'm aware of it, and that's why in this world, it's illusory to say that this demilitarisation should occur immediately, but the militarization you're preparing in Pula, it's not necessary for me, and if the mayor and the mayor are to say so, they took off their underpants and accepted all your thesis, it's their business and not mine. And don't tell them that it didn't occur to you. The people of Pula think differently, but when you mention this about a patrol ship, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you have now made serious accusations. Your obligation under the laws is to report it and therefore I call you if you did not report that you are now explaining why and otherwise to submit the application as soon as possible, it is your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144009	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144010	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express first of all the bitterness of the situation in the military, I will list three of the main problems soldiers face. The first is that their salaries are too low and it's embarrassing that our soldiers quit in the army to go to, say, physical jobs in Germany, that tells you all about how much they appreciate their work more than they do professionals. Another problem is that the conditions of disaster work, so food is bad and instead of changing it, against soldiers who dare to talk about it, there are strict procedures like I don't know it, a problem with discipline and not a problem with poor food quality. And finally, he would like to point out the third problem, which is no motivation, so the soldiers are unfortunately not motivated and why they are not motivated, because they see the senselessness of their service, they are aware that Croatia is in a servant's relationship with NATO, that the government in Mark's market is puppetite and that it is therefore the Ministry of Defence of our country in the service of American and Brussels foreign policy. For this reason, the Croatian army is not on the Croatian border but on the Russian border, for this reason the Croatian army is not in Croatia but in Iraq or Afghanistan. Unfortunately, there are fewer soldiers who can carry such a burden. Soldiers who decide to speak against, say, going to the Russian border are also using various strict measures and also part of the soldiers rebelled against the practice of forced vaccination, namely, part of the soldiers do not want to be vaccinated against certain diseases or vaccines that are imposed on them and therefore are also led against them by tight procedures. All this stuff I've been saying has led to a permanent drop in the number of handbooks. In 2018, the charity handbook in Croatia was 868. It was less than 2015, then it was 949, 2016. 956 and 2017 1192, so back 4 years, we have the lowest number of voluntary handbooks in the Croatian Army. The total number of soldiers is small but even that small number is not as problematic as their problem is to say, dysfunction, so they are not in service, they are not in the function in which they should be and that function is the protection of the Croatian country, the protection of their republic. Our republic is Croatia and instead of our army protecting our country's external borders, it does everything but that. He would like to point out the problem of moving soldiers to Gospić, namely if a soldier refuses to obey orders and refuses to go on a military mission outside Croatia, he is sent to Gospić for punishment. Now try to imagine a soldier who is from Vinkovac, has a family there, a young family, loves his wife, loves his children, he wants to spend time with them, instead of being in his town, in his county of Vukovar-Srijem, he is sent to Lithuania, and if he refuses to go to Lithuania, Gospić is sent to him, as Gospić is very far away from Vinkovci, what happens? He can't travel there all the time, that road is hard, he pays him nothing, he finally quits and leaves the Croatian Army. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, such a policy of defence, such a policy of governance of the Croatian Army, you are actually subversing against your own country and against your own people. Instead of investing in people, there are plans to buy some fighter planes, in numbers in billions of kunas. Well, my people, so are you aware that these planes would not serve anyone that the clock of their flight is in tens of thousands of euros and that instead of raising the morale of the Croatian military and that the wages increase at least 50%, to put the military into operation, to put it on the Croatian border, what you do, you plan to buy these military planes or I don't know, a hoodi of Germany or some kind of radar systems from America that are still out of service, and basically the result of that is spending a large amount of money, but that money doesn't go to the soldiers, so it doesn't go to their families, and in fact their wish or will for service is nothing. I would like to mention a brief conversation I held with an Israeli soldier in Hebron, Hebron is a city on the west coast, under occupation, and this soldier is actually a handheld and his salary, or compensation, is minimal. If I remember correctly, he told me he was paid for his work a month 300 dollars means or even 200, meaning some heavy misery. But I asked him how you're happy with your job in terms of whether you see the point in it, he said, you know, I'm a rock and I have that pay miserable but I'm happy with it because I see the point in what we're doing. So he sees meaning in the actions of Palestinian families, making their movement more difficult, expanding the colonial project of cynicist etc., but Croatian soldiers in Croatia are currently not motivated by their work, are not motivated by their work, so you put them into service of American interests, em have no salary, em do not know what to do there in Gospić, etc. So one very, very bad policy, I don't mind the military being stationed and in Pula, on the contrary, I'm glad that our soldiers go to Pula to rest, to bathe there, to enjoy the sea, I am for making them a resting place and for their families, so I have nothing against it, but I repeat, the role of the army should be to protect the Croatian borders which is not and why it is not, and again we return to the beginning of the story. The government manages it on the outside, those who manage Croatia are forced by mass migration, we are talking about the Brussels elite, and since the Brussels elite is acting on illegal migration, it is also forbidden for Croatia to use the resources available in defence of the border. Thank you and I call on the Croatian military or active military personnel and their families to support John Pernar's side when it is founded because it is the only party that will uncompromisingly stand in their defense and protection of their dignity, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144011	Thank you, colleague Pernar. The esteemed colleague Ante Babic is gone. Dear colleague Irena Petrievcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144012	Thank you very much, Vice President. It was a little embarrassing to listen to this amount of inaccuracy that my colleague said, but since it was ultimately the purpose of a pre-election campaign then it makes sense that all these inaccuracies were spoken. Therefore, Croatia shares with partner countries security challenges and we know this well and we should ask some MPs as an esteemed who has just come out, whose interests he is investing in and whose interests this person is working for, because this is a very discriminatory issue, given this amount of inaccuracy. What is important to say is that it is predicted that the EU will need to allocate EUR 3.5 billion from the common budget in the period '21 to '27 and that such defence separation will be at EU level for the first time since the EU exists and, in this context, say that the Croatian Army does not have a smaller budget, or that why this budget is this big, so in this context it should ask the question why the budget is not even bigger and why it has not reached the target 2%. As one of the first projects of this, so far the largest European budget has ever been the development of European drones. How much, therefore, the EU puts emphasis on defence, says this data, and the Republic of Croatia as a member of the EU and NATO, therefore, must not be stunted, the Republic of Croatia should not be left behind, the Republic of Croatia must be in line with all those EU and NATO components as we are and how we, in the mandate of this government, are actually achieving these objectives and strengthening defence cooperation between the Member States, but also between our allies, is what is important. Of course, at the same time we do not ignore our own defence system, on the contrary, but at the same time we work in symbiosis with our allies and as an EU member state. And so listen to some partial approaches, it's really sad, it's actually sad that those who call others contradictory, and they're contradictory themselves, because the fact is that if we combined all of the European budgets, so EU member states, then we'd get a total second-largest defence quota in the world right behind the United States, and now in this context we're talking about some kind of trivial and flat-rate evaluations, it's really non-serious, I'd say that even violates those 4 targets from national security, all 4 goals, and that's not something that's responsible for the work of MPs in HS, but everyone is responsible for their work, and when it seems to be all stable and that we live in one stable geopolitical system, then it's just seemingly because if we look at all indicators, I're talking on the basis of fact, not based on their personal impressions or some frustrations. Then that name that we don't like very much to hear, but unfortunately it is often used in the world, which is a Balkan powder barrel and has become an insult to something we often hear, and then we hear that this southeastern Europe is a very thorny and unstable area, and the Republic of Croatia is in a sensitive geopolitical position, so what they say is, and we all agree with that and the source of security challenges and terrorist threats and the migration of illegal and organised crime and hybrid warfare that fellow Tudjman knows a lot about, if not the most, probably the most, therefore, are all the challenges with which the Croatian military, which the system defends and which the system of national and homeland security is today being dealt with and speaking of it is truly non-serious, really irresponsible. What should be said is that the Croatian defence system today and in the European and global context is respectable and professional and it is not my personal opinion that I pulled out of a small finger, but it is the facts. It is necessary to stress the continued investment in this defence system, unfortunately, we have heard the truth, and in fact it only says that the MP did not follow at all what was done in the Croatian Parliament, because if he had followed then he would have known that new rules were passed, that the new Law on Service in Armed Forces was passed, that all material rights of duty were raised, etc., guard fees, so we see that the facts are one thing, and this flat-rate speech is something else. And if we are talking about human resources, then also in a material and professional sense, there has been a rise in the level of these human resources, and what we have already heard from the previous presentation of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, so 195 million kuna in one year for equipment, it is envisaged and that is the amount that is truly respectable, and if we know what the system of homeland security and the system of national security looks like, then we know that the role of the Croatian military is not only this to say conservative military affairs, but they are also non-traditional military affairs, and that is also anti-fire protection, it is also the protection against floods, etc., where the military is very contributing and where it does not save even on the people, and does not save on the budget, and I particularly want to stress that these are all the constitutional obligations of the Croatian military army that it implements and disciplined and systematically, and also cannot expect quality work without sufficient resources. So we would just look at previous discussions where it is said that the Republic of Croatia does not have the need to grow the budget, so with all due respect to each MP, I would ask the question that we might do a comparative analysis, so let's see how many other countries are singled out, and then we'll say that the Republic of Croatia is from its 1st and somewhat, 14th of the 27 NATO countries, and NATO has 28 members, so let's say that the average of European countries is 1.46 and even 17 countries below that average. Therefore, we, as advocates, should not talk about anything, and especially about defence issues, should advocate that the Republic of Croatia be below any average. On the contrary, we should advocate that the Croatian average is constantly growing, and if we look here we have a defence budget since 2008-2019, so 2008 was part of the defence budget of 1.76, 2010. 1.45, 2012. 1.38 and now watch this in 2016 only 1.17, so here I found the records from the parent body, so 2017. where opposition MPs who are now saying otherwise say it is shameful that the Republic of Croatia singles out only 1.17 GDP in the defence budget, therefore, from the budget because this means the stagnation of the Croatian defence system throughout the year. Now this is not happening, as we see no more stagnation, as we see quality work is achieved along with let's say objectively increase the budget as much as it allows economic opportunities in Croatia. However, when you ask, when you talk to some respected colleagues from the University of West Point, Stanford, so if we want Georgetown University in Washington, etc., they will, they will well know what a system of Homeland Security is and how they know what it is if you want their home line security program, and what our system is of national security. And none of them in all the talks, congresses so far, and however you wish, have ever said any criticism of the Croatian Homeland Security system or what this government has done, and we know how many years unsuccessful attempts have taken to bring this kind of quality system. Of course, every system has room for improvement and objectively speaking and this system can always be better, but objectively speaking it should be said that this is also very good now and that if there are financial opportunities, and there are professional capacities, it can be even better, but I don't run when spoken casually and I don't like to talk on the basis of some personal frustrations, not based on facts. So this is definitely a positive, positive report that needs to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144013	I thank my colleague, Petrijevčan Vuksanković. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144014	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Irena agree with you in this section in which you specifically singled out an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army. When we spoke here in the assembly about the interpretation, about the work of the Government, then we listed everything that was done in the mandate of Mr Damir Krstičević and we specifically singled out the increase in budget and the provision of material rights to Croatian soldiers, from duty, daily, field work, guard services, etc., etc. So, along with the fact that there are increased material rights, that Croatian military offices today seem absolutely different, arranged, compared to what was before Mr Krstic and with the fact that the Ministry of Defence first received the unconditional opinion of the State Audit Office after 27 years, says that for the term of office of this minister and of this Government, it was returned to both the Croatian soldier and the Croatian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144015	Thank you. Answer, colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144016	Dear fellow Bačić, when the Croatian Parliament adopted most of the votes on 23 March 2018 to amend and supplement the Law on Defence and the Law on the Service of Armed Forces, you know who was against it, and thanks to these amendments, as well as the amendments to those regulations that have been made to all to improve the material and labour status of the Croatian Armed Forces, and, above all, to the human factor, because this government and this ministry are aimed at man, then we also know that these fees have been made and on the ground and on duty and on duty on weekends and fees for guard service and they move in amounts of 120 kuna to the lowest amount I see 80 kuna for work, work on duty and 100 kuna weekends. Thus, they are not insignificant amounts, no matter how hard some try to minimize the work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144017	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144018	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues here, I am pleased that you have just had the last individual debate, precisely to refute the the thesis of some of the colleagues who have taken part in their individual debates very much on the subject of reducing the budget of the Ministry of Defence and why you have killed the thesis and proved why the MORH budget should have just been increased and that you have highlighted all the benefits and benefits of the home security system itself. And I see here in proportion to some of the clubs, unfortunately some agree with the previous concept of our military systems, which is that it closes in military facilities, our minister is clear against such a system and we all here because the benefits of this cooperation through homeland security and cooperation with civil institutions have been shown through all these disasters and snow and water and fires, have shown how useful it is that our army is along with a civil institution on the ground. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144019	Reply Dear colleague Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144020	Thank you, dearly respected colleague, we need to refute those untruths because our job here should be responsible because we speak objectively and in fact. Well, the Homeland Security System would certainly tell me that she was a missing link, and that's one of the greater successes in the mandate of this minister and his employees and associates, so if you want these governments as well. Because the Homeland Security System is a comprehensive system that includes all national threats, and if you want metaphorically said in the country, air, and cyberspace was introduced in 2016 into the NATO system as one of the aspects that can be threatened by national security, whose national security may be compromised through cyberspace. So it just shows a comprehensive and systematic approach to the defence portfolio and that's what I pointed out as something that is good and that should certainly be commended.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144021	Thank you. The final word on behalf of the applicant, Deputy Prime Minister of Defence Mr Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144022	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Assembly MPs, I am pleased to thank you once again, everyone who participated today in the debate with the facts, someone with arguments, someone with no arguments about an annual defence report for 2018, even though someone will support it, someone will not support it, someone will be restrained. Thank God, it's all democracy, it's all one process and I'm really glad as defence minister that here I am listening to everything. I heard what I wanted once again, right from the beginning, and once again from this pay phone, I want to thank you from this House. I want to thank our soldiers, officers, officers, all lines of command in the Croatian army from the commanders of the tenth, the water, the company, the military, the brigade, the command, the branch, then the officers of the furniture, everything they do, every day, 24 hours to keep Croatia safe, they all and our colleagues serve Croatia. And that's why, once again, I'm giving them credit. This is all we've told today, what we've done in continuity, we've done together, it's the result of their work. I'm up here at the top, but it's these people, soldiers, officers, officers. And it is a fundamental fact, the truth that the Croatian Army was restored, the Croatian Army was restored, that the Croatian army was returned to its glory from the Homeland War. And the fact is that some other government, here's Mrs. Pusic was in that government from 2011 to 2015, took away, took away the Ministry of Defense billions and 200 million kunas, a billion and 200 million kuna, and that's almost 26%. And that's when it didn't bother anyone. You did, when you were doing that, when you made those decisions and you were in that government how it was for a soldier, an officer and an officer. You took away their material rights, you took away their soldiers, you took away their field, you took away their watch, you took away their watch, you took away their watch. Have you thought back then about what it's like for these families, what it's like for these soldiers, how it is for their families? You're not. And that's why the government has been increasing the budget these few years to restore those material rights that were taken away from Croatian soldiers, and then to make those contracts that our soldiers had on the 4th to 5th, to 6, that's 15 years, which is after that. And we changed that too, we gave it back, and we gave people security, so people can plan their families and everything a soldier must have, both in Croatia and in every other modern and developed state, and that's our job, that's our responsibility. And that is why I am glad that from year to year the Croatian Army is stronger, that we are developing new abilities that are needed. And I'm glad we brought the strategic army back to Vukovar. Vukovar is the gravity centre of this country and I am glad to see every morning the Croatian banner, a Croatian soldier in Vukovar, one company, next year will be the entire battle, an engineering battle that is in place again for safety but which is in function and assistance to the local community. Well, here we are recently when the snow was a little snow-cleaning, etc., etc. I am glad that the soldier is in Ploča, so in Sinj, so in Varazdin and this especially now at the 10th month, Croatian soldier again and in Pula. And what is still waiting for us, it is in the 9th month Udbin, the same return of the Croatian Army to Udbin, the establishment of a battle leader centre to make them stronger and more ready. So I think the guys are doing a great job, a huge thank you to them, clearly we have challenges, clearly we have problems sometimes, but we're dealing with all these challenges, we're dealing with all these problems. As for the Ministry of Defense, for the first time, it got an unconditional opinion, the same thing someone looked at, looked at this piece of work all together, and here I am glad to have another thank-you to all the people, the team that took part in it. So here we are, once again in the end, thank you to everyone who participated in the debate. We will continue to strengthen Croatia's army firmly, strongly, and to whom it bothers me, I can't help it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144023	I would like to thank you for your final word, the Honorable Minister. We have several replicas, a respected colleague, Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144024	Thank you very much. So your job is to strengthen the defence of Croatia and no matter how it is done best. I am surprised by your so direct attack on your predecessor, Minister Kotromanović, I think he did his job well, the point is to strengthen the defence security of Croatia today because Croatian society is probably the most insecure of all. And on the road, they attack people, they beat people, and we gave huge amounts of money to the Ministry of Defense, into the budget of the Department of Defense. The F16 are questions, not the status of Croatian soldiers, everyone wants Croatian soldiers to live decently. There's no one here, and you don't need to drag such arguments out. Where the money was spent with all the preparations for the project that failed, it was big money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144025	Thank you. The reply of the respected minister Krsticevic. Here you go. Oh, no? The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144026	Thank you very much. I didn't intend to replicate it to you, but you kind of challenged me by saying that the government of Prime Minister Milanovic took the defense system and I think you said a billion and a half thousand kuna. And yes, that's sad, she didn't just take soldiers, she took teachers, teachers, cops, social workers, nurses, doctors. Why? Because there was no money. Why wasn't there any money? Because Croatia was robbed. Who robbed Croatia? Those who swore in that land held their hands on their hearts and under the cover of patriotism took the citizens' money and carried them in unknown directions. We also have some court proceedings that support that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144027	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144028	Thank you very much. So here at the end of all, Ministers, I congratulate you on this report, you have very clearly shown what the Croatian Army is today, to feel what a Croatian soldier is and the Croatian Army is enough to be on the Day of Armed Forces when you see a satisfied Croatian soldier who trusts himself, who is honorable, proud and who, in any way, shows what a Croatian soldier is today, not in Europe but in the whole world. What is visible in all military and in the very development of all Croatian military ships is certainly the merit of the people who run the ministry and, above all, the soldiers themselves. Everyone else who has a different view, clearly here today, we've heard even if the army isn't even welcome anywhere, we hear now that you should probably go out on the streets and everything. And we saw in all the events that were important to the Croatian people that the Croatian Army was with that people. And therefore congratulations on everything you have done for the Croatian Army in the past few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144029	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144030	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. About the work of the defence minister, your associates, I would say the Croatian Army's Chief Staff is enough to come to Croatian military, military Croatian armies, to see what they are today and what they were like before your arrival at the head of the Ministry of Defence. I congratulate you on the fact that you have redistributed the Croatian Army to important strategic points of the Republic of Croatia, in Vukovar, in Sinj, in Varazdin, in Pula, and what is particularly important to me because I come from Dubrovnik-Neretva County to return the army to Ploče. And which will contribute to the security and stability of the south of Croatia and in a security sense and will support the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County in all the needs that arise in that area. Thanks again for the work you've done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144031	I thank my esteemed colleague Bacic. The next replica is a respected colleague of Professors. Miroslav Tudjman, here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said you returned the splendor of the Croatian Army which actually causes dissatisfaction with one part and today's debates which are, a dissatisfaction motivated by two different sources. On the one hand, those who are never happier with the effects of the Croatian Army in the Homeland War and the creation of territorial integrity and on the other hand those who do not understand you are new abilities that the modern army should have. It should only be recalled that NATO troops had formations already 20 years ago for, then it was called information warfare, we, with a delay of 20 years, are actually forming these cyber warfare centres, or cybersecurity. This means that we are preparing the army for a whole new role, new risks, new dangers that have never been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144033	I thank my colleague Tudjman. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I would like to thank Mr. Damir Krstičević and his associates once again, the Deputy Prime Minister of Defense. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144034	Annual Defence Report 2018 The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The Annual Defence Report for 2018 is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that with 80 votes for, 24 abstentions and 2 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144035	We're going to the next item on the agenda. - Report on implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia; Reporter is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate was conducted by the committee responsible for internal policy and national security and by the Defence Committee. I ask the representative of the applicant, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister Damir Krstičević to give us an additional explanation of this report. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144036	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to introduce you today to the basic elements of the Report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament one year on the basis of the provisions of the Srategy of National Security of the Republic of Croatia. After a little more than a quarter of a century of the existence of an independent and independent Republic 15 years since the adoption of the first National Security Strategy of 2002, the Republic of Croatia adopted a modern National Security Strategy in 2017, here is another one that respects important changes in the understanding of security in modern democratic states and societies. So our government after 15 years we've brought that strategy. The process itself and the approach to the development of the strategy was comprehensive, inclusive, transparent, interdepartmental and extraordinary. It was preceded by an analysis and an assessment of the situation whose final conclusion was that only through an organised system, a safety partnership can meet the preconditions of a state and society whose human security is at the heart. The strategy comes from four national interests identified by consensus, accepted during a broad debate in the process of drafting and adopting the strategy. National interests are long-term, sustainable and strategic objectives defined and elaborated in the strategy, with a total of 9 in the role of achieving these national interests. In realising these interests, everyone has a place and a role to play. From citizens to institutions at all levels of state and society. And this report on the implementation of the strategy and the debate on it in this House of Commons is a function of achieving these objectives. The debate led during the process of drawing up and adopting the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia has shown that in Croatian society there is a great interest in this document, it has already contributed to the development and awareness of importance and security, and in the capacity and need for all social entities to contribute to the strengthening of security. This has also been demonstrated in the adoption of the Law on the Homeland Security System when a number of entities of society and state, including citizens as individuals, were recognised as those who were invited to participate as active stakeholders of the system with their place and important role within it. Although the adoption of the strategy has had a positive impact on perception and understanding of importance and security, only the existence of a national security strategy is not our ultimate goal. Its specifics should be continuously and systematically implemented, should be innovative in line with possible important changes in the internal and external security and general strategic environment and should be constantly warned that absolute security is not available. The debate on this report should also contribute to the comprehensive implementation of the policy provisions and to strengthening the awareness of the entire society on the importance of national security for overall development, and the sustainability of the state, society and people. This report shall cover the period from the adoption of the national security strategy on 14 July 2017 until the date of submission of the report to the HS and shall be drawn up in accordance with national and strategic objectives carried out on the basis of reports by the national authorities which adopt strategic documents in order to protect national security. The report shall provide a summary and credible overview of the efforts that have been put in place so far and progress made in promoting national interests and implementing strategic objectives. In this regard, I would like to stress that national security strategies do not set time limits in which certain interests and objectives must be achieved because they are derived from the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia to the defined Constitution, from the vision set out in the introduction of the strategy from its own geostrategic, geopolitical position, and from the state of trends in the international environment. The content of the report highlights a balanced approach to all interests and objectives defined by a strategy reflecting the fundamental knowledge of the broad scope of the concept of national security, which includes the issue of security of the population, the protection of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the provision of a strong defence system and other leverages in the face of direct challenges and threats to our security. In the area of national interest, the security of the population, as well as the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, it has been found that the state of security in the Republic of Croatia is stable and there is no visible potential for its significant distortion, regardless of what the stability belt around Europe continues to generate security challenges. This also confirms the latest public report by the Security Intelligence Agency for 2018. The main challenges are increased terrorist threats in Europe, processes in the Southeast neighbourhood, illegal migration, foreign intelligence, cyber threats and hybrid action. The consequences of crisis hotspots are evident in the rise of organised crime and trafficking of people, weapons and goods, hybrid warfare and radicalisation through social networks. The strategy confirmed the complexity of security opportunities in the Republic of Croatia and the environment, and the speed and unpredictability of the changes that are taking place. In this respect, the strategy extends both the responsibility and the role of national authorities in the protection of national security, and points to all competent authorities to joint and coordinated work and to the development of new capabilities in the protection of national security. Its findings and guidelines determines the direction of action and the development of the capabilities of security intelligence and other services in the coming years. This is why it must be intelligence work in 2018. particularly focused on terrorism, radicalism, extremism. The action of other countries that pose a security threat or challenges to the values and interests of the Republic of Croatia, global and regional, political, social and security processes and interests, organised economic crime and corruption, economic and financial processes affecting the economic interests and stability of the Republic of Croatia, war crimes, prisoners and missing persons, and anti-intelligence and security of protected persons, facilities and space and critical infrastructures. Security intelligence agencies have made efforts to create, develop and strengthen the ability to respond to new and... challenges and threats such as indirect, hybrid and informational activities, and actions in cyberspace. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Special efforts have been made in the field of combating illegal migration, and a very active route of the western Balkan route through BiH, and Montenegro, which is crucial for security surveillance, and creating a precondition for the return and normal functioning of the Schengen area. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the Schengen area is a strategic goal and a national priority and are during 2018. Almost all technical preconditions for the achievement of that objective have been met. In addition to safeguarding our own border due to increased migration pressure, we had to strengthen the protection of the EU's external border, and to this end sent an additional number of police officers to the EU's external border. Capacity has been increased through technical equipment, infrastructure building, translation of various activities with the help of frontexes and enhanced cooperation with neighbouring countries. Security 18 has been launched, raising the level of safety of the population, and critical infrastructure during the tourist season. The fact is that so many foreign tourists chose the Republic of Croatia for their visit and vacation shows that we are an extremely safe country. A review of the state of the civil protection system has been made, a risk assessment has been updated, and a new threat register containing 35 natural and technological technological threats has been developed. Analysis has been carried out in the area of the protection of critical infrastructure, a general plan for the management of the food safety crisis for humans and animals, a law on cybersecurity of key service operators and digital service providers has been adopted and criteria for the determination of national operators, key services and digital service providers have been established. From 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2018, the total mine suspected area was reduced by 81,6 km2, completely from mines Bjelovarsko-bilogorska, Brodsko-Posaviska, Dubrovačko-neretvaska, Virovitičko-podravska, Vukovar-Srijemska and Zagreb County. The Republic of Croatia is expected to be cleared from mines by the end of 2026. A system of homeland security was established that achieved very good results in the first year of existence, especially in the field of combating elementary and other disasters. Exercises for the implementation of the preparation of Cybernetic Shield 2018 and fire drill Safety 2018 were carried out as the same exercises in 2019, operational fire command was established in Divulje, which contributed significantly to the very successful fire-fighting season, and co-ordination for the home security system was regularly held and operated on the ground during major snowfalls, floods and fires. Although climate conditions favoured the reduction in number, the consequences of the fire, improved management system and faster and reactive decision-making system in the use of air and land firepower led to a lower number of fires in 2017 by 67.81%. Similar positive results have been achieved in the fight against snowfalls and the fight against floods resulting from the rapid melting of snow. Built over 10 km of boxing barrier, 15 km of temporary earth and rabbit ravines from the sack. Over 21,000 m3 of sand was spent. 13,500 km3 of stone material and more than 650,000 sacks of which nearly 200,000 sacks were laid to cities and municipalities, so the damage to huge amounts of water was minimal. The established home security system allows the optimal and improved operation of the necessary state institutions and local administrations in relation to a working period which is viewed in the functioning of the system, more efficient planning, better prevention and faster reaction. In the past season, there were no human casualties, and reductions are material damage. The system is now tied up, information is exchanged, and all the activities undertaken have affected the reduction of the consequences of the natural disasters that make citizens feel safer. The development of defence capabilities stemming from the concept of collective defence has continued. Changes have also been made in the territorial schedule of the Croatian Army troops, so the Croatian Army has returned to Vukovar, Sinj, Ploče and Varazdin and is also planning to return to Pula, thus ensuring better coverage of the territory and a faster reaction. In addition to the security point of view, this new operational schedule increases the standard of living and working of soldiers, promotes the military call and values of the Homeland War, and supports the local economy and the population. In accordance with the plan of setting up the reserve assembly of armed forces during 2017 and 2018, the establishment of all 6 reserve pedestrian regiments and 6 spare breeding units has been completed. Surveillance and protection of sovereignty, sovereign rights and enforcement of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea and in the air shall be carried out. Participation in operations and peace support missions has continued. The financial resources for the defence portfolio have been increased. Intergrant exercise Velebit 18, a study of military maritime and cooperation with the University of Split was launched. In the field of national interest, the well-being and prosperity of citizens in July 2018, a Law on State support for research development projects has been adopted with the aim of increasing private sector investment in research and development and promoting the cooperation of entrepreneurs with knowledge research and dissemination organisations on research projects. A number of capacity-building activities and awareness-raising of the professional and general public have been launched with the impacts and risks of climate change. In the electricity sector, there has been an increase in the total installed power of production plants in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, which mainly refers to plants using renewable energy sources and cogeneration plants. The connection power of all power plants on the territory of the Republic of Croatia increased by 111 megawatts compared to 2017. In June 2018, the Act on the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas established the infrastructure of the natural gas terminal, which is of strategic interest to the Republic of Croatia, was adopted. In order to ensure oil and oil supplies, in the event of a threat to the country's energy security, mandatory supplies of oil and petroleum products have been formed in the amount of at least 90 days of average daily net imports of oil and petroleum products. With the aim of reducing dependence on oil and gas imports, 5 contracts for the exploration and division of hydrocarbon exploitation have been signed on research sites located in eastern Slavonia. Investments in the water economy relate to investment in the water transport infrastructure, i.e. to improving the public water supply, disposal, wastewater treatment and investment in projects to protect against harmful water and irrigation projects. The Adriatic Sea is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia and has its special protection. Annual fisheries inspection plans shall be drawn up where risk management achieves surveillance optimisation. The Republic of Croatia currently has 10 clean-up ships for cleaning the Adriatic Sea and river mouths from oil spills, blends of oil, harmful and dangerous substances, swimming waste, accumulation on the surface of the sea from extraordinary natural phenomena. Rural Development Programme of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 – 2020 ensures sustainable economic development and competitiveness of agricultural economies, while preserving the natural environment and its constituents of soil, air, water, flora and fauna. The EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds has joined the implementation, implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the Regional Development Strategy for the period until the end of 2020 and the related changes in the development index, with particular emphasis on increasing the number of units of local self-government with assisted area status. In view of the demographic trends facing the Republic of Croatia over the past period, additional activities have been taken towards increasing the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia, or measures supporting the family and providing support for child care. The application of the Law on maternity and parental support directly protects motherhood, facilitates the coherence of family and professional obligations, encourages birth and enables fathers to participate more in the work raising and raising of children. In order to create a more favourable environment and financial conditions for a family with newborn children, changes to the Law on maternity and parental support have increased the level of financial support for individual user rights groups. In order to improve the performance of the innovative and population policy, amendments and additions to the Law on Extra charge for children who are allowed to raise the level of income censorship as conditions for the exercise of rights for children as well as potential users of the optimal supplement for the 3rd and 4th children have entered into force. A programme of integrated physical, economic and social regeneration of small cities in war-affected areas is being implemented in the context of stopping depopulation of areas of territory and uneven regional development. Through the programme of sustainable development of the local community and regional development support programmes, national measures are implemented to achieve a balanced development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia in line with the principles of sustainable development and social inclusion. Under the Rural Republic programme 2014/20. For years, life in rural areas, educational, social and sports content is being exploited in order to raise the quality of life in the country and reduce the negative population trend. The reconstruction of the construction of small infrastructure from roads and waterways to kindergartens and social homes is co-financed. The biggest contribution to generation recovery in agriculture is to support young farmers. In the segment of the development of services in the public sector and the planning of the Digital Society Development Strategy, it is actively working to apply for EU-funded projects to increase the quality of e-service, public administration and to promote the digital skills of citizens. In the area of national interest, national identity, international reputation and influence, it is pointed out that the Republic of Croatia has a rich, diverse cultural heritage under the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, protection and conservation measures implemented by the Ministry of Culture with the aim of transferring cultural good to future generations. During the period since the adoption of the National Security Strategy, 477 cultural goods of which 234 cultural goods are listed on the list of protected cultural goods and 243 goods are listed on the list of protected goods. Special care is taken about proper positioning, affirmation of promotion of Croatian language, literature of culture in light through a network of Croatian language lecturers and literature at foreign universities. The network consists of 31 lecturers, mostly in EU Member States, 3 Croatian Language Centres in Canada and Australia, and a Croatian component in comparative literature studies at the University of Glasgow. The promotion of Croatian language and culture is carried out as a support to the University of Mostar, which as the only foreign higher school performs teaching in Croatian, thus contributing to the preservation of the national identity and equal status of Croats in BiH. Members of national minorities have the right to education in their language and letter guaranteed by the Constitution, the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on Education and Education in the Language and Letter of National Minorities. The Republic of Croatia is committed and continuously carrying out activities to protect the preservation and promotion of the values of the Homeland War, aimed at increasing the level of awareness of the general public in the Homeland War, a dignified evaluation of the role of Croatian defenders in defending the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in preserving and protecting the dignity and members of their families in society and overcoming and easing the consequences of the Homeland War. A new Law on Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families has also been adopted to provide comprehensive care tailored to their needs. The Republic of Croatia keeps memories of important events from the Croatian past of the Homeland War, honoring all those who sacrificed their lives and health for Croatian freedom and statehood. The Republic of Croatia is making additional efforts to identify and identify missing persons during the Homeland War. The Republic of Croatia is searching for 1509 missing persons during the Homeland War. In addition, 404 requests to search for postmortem remains of the deceased, a total of 1923 unsolved cases. Interstate agreements with Serbia, BiH, Montenegro have been signed on co-operation in the search for missing persons. In addition to engagement in missions and operations at the regional European and global level, the Republic of Croatia strengthens its influence by active action by international organisations, integration in particular in the EU, NATO and the UN. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its For the first time, the Republic of Croatia chaired the Council of Europe's Committee of Ministers. In addition to the two-year membership of the UN Human Rights Council, which began in 2017, this presidency for the Republic of Croatia is an extremely important opportunity to increase the visibility of its external political action in the field of human rights protection and will undoubtedly contribute to the visibility and positioning of the Republic of Croatia as an international factor in this area. In 2018, the Republic of Croatia chaired a Central European initiative. During the year 118, the Republic of Croatia took part in the preparation, validation of the 18-month programme of the EU Council Presidency for the period from 1 January 2019 to 30 June 2020. The follow-up to this programme and the basis of national priorities will prepare a programme of the Presidency of the EU Council from 1 January to 30 June 2020. Co-operation under China + 17, the Republic of Croatia has been the host of the summit since 2019. China + 17 and the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia hosted a bilateral visit by the Chinese prime minister. The tourism ministry represents the Republic of Croatia to the World Tourism Organisation. By expanding the views on the international agenda, especially with the success of Croatian athletes, the Croatian Tourist Board as an institution responsible for promoting tourism within the framework of promotional activities has achieved successful cooperation with distinguished Croatian sports associations, athletes and the Croatian Olympic Committee. The Croatian tourist community recorded the most visible promotional video titled Croatian tourism ambassadors, in which the main role is played by world-recognizable Croatian stars such as football players, tennis players and basketball players. That video was seen in a very short time by about 7 million people. An excellent performance by Croatian football players at the 2018 World Cup in Russia has contributed immeasurably to the promotion of the Republic of Croatia. During 2018, the Croatian culture was accompanied by the increasingly important anniversary of the Homeland War and was promoted by the monitoring of numerous cultural events, the broadcasting of documentary films and series and the information of citizens in cultural events in the country. In the area of national interest, the equal position, sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH, the position of the Croatian national minority in other countries and Croats in emigration. The Republic of Croatia advocates its activities and will continue to advocate the equality of the Croatian people in BiH in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality in accordance with the constitutional principle of equality between three constituent peoples and legitimate representation at all administrative political levels of government. As part of the European institutions, we have actively advocated the affirmation of the constitutional principle of the constitution of the people, and the need for reform of BiH's electoral law that will allow all constituent peoples and citizens of BiH to be selectively represented at all levels of government, including the BiH presidency. As a result of our efforts, the EU's policy towards BiH is increasingly drawing attention to political reforms, and in particular to changes to BiH's electoral law, which is reflected in the conclusions of the EU Council. We advocate that through a fair reform of BiH's electoral law, it must be possible for Croats to choose their therapeutic representatives. We also asked BiH authorities to solve the problems facing Croats, and especially returnees, property protection, reconstruction of houses and infrastructure, conduct investigations in criminal parts committed against members of the Croatian people, and respect administrative decisions on issues such as financing the Catholic School Centre in Bihac and decisions by domestic courts on issues such as the return of the Supreme Archdiocese building in Travnik. In order to ensure support for the Croatian people in 2018 Croatian Consulate opened at Knights and Consulate of the Republic of Croatia in Livn. The HGK office in Sarajevo and Mostar opened in April 2018. In February 2018, HRT opened correspondence in Sarajevo and Mostar, and a direct plane line between Zagreb and Mostar was established since May 2018. The Euro-Atlantic path of BiH is one of the key foreign policy objectives and the strategic priority of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has strongly advocated the activation of action membership, an action plan for BiH's NATO membership. With this in December 2018, NATO foreign ministers confirmed a decision by the North Atlantic Council to invite BiH to submit its first annual national programme. The signed contract between the government of the Republic of Croatia and the BiH Council of Ministers on European Partnership also provides an institutional framework for BiH's support in overcoming challenges in the EU integration process. One of the biggest programmes of the Central State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia is aimed at strategic investment in BiH, a programme of funding, education, cultural, scientific and health programmes and projects that are of interest to the Croatian people in BiH. With the resolution of missing persons in '91. and '92. There are still open issues in the Republic of Serbia regarding the position of Croats as a national minority whose resolution we insist on in all contacts and levels with the other side. We expect that the Republic of Serbia will fully fulfil the interstate commitments and agreements between the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Serbia and Montenegro on the protection of the rights of the Croatian minority in the Republic of Serbia and the Serb-Montenegro minority in the Republic of Croatia. For the Republic of Serbia, it is crucial for the Croatian minority to have the same rights as the Serb minority in the Republic of Serbia, which means that Croats in the Republic of Serbia also have representatives at all levels of government and local, regional and republican. The issue of protection of the Croatian minority in Macedonia incentivises in... with top Macedonian officials, and stressed that Macedonia is ready to undertake stronger activities and carry out its obligations towards the Croatian national minority, including the guidance of Croats as a national minority in the Constitution of Macedonia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Respecting the position and demand of the province's Croats of Montenegro and Boca in the Republic of Croatia, it seems everything to protect their rights and ensure the protection of the Bokelic Navy with all its elements, as well as those whose heritage in Montenegro and those whose heritage in the Republic of Croatia. In the context of the debate on the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on the implementation of the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities in May 2018, The Republic of Kosovo has asked Kosovo to include a request for recognition of Croats as a national minority among the recommendations made by Kosovo authorities and to allow them to be represented in the assembly. The Republic of Croatia is taking care of Croats in emigration in North, Central and South America, and in Australia and New Zealand through the protection of their rights and interests, and the promotion of their ties with their homeland. Finally, the report does not just provide a review of the activities undertaken and progress made, but also points to the challenges we face in promoting national interests and meeting strategic objectives. This report is also an additional basis for more intensive, joint, coordinated efforts to identify and address national security threats and challenges. The development and adoption of the national security strategy is a major democratic step and achievement, and this report and debate on it are part of the achievement. The report was made in the best faith and all shortcomings and shortcomings are part of the common learning process to make us better and better every year. I thank all those who have participated in any way in the development of the national security strategy and who will contribute to further development and achievement of the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest that HS adopt this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144037	I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defense, Mr. Damir Krstičević. We have several replicas, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144038	Dear Minister, I would only ask when the strategy was adopted, what it says, how many times and when to submit the report and how long it took from the time it was brought to the moment it was submitted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144039	Thank you. Minister Krsticevic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144040	Mr Ostojić, I have already said that the strategy was adopted on 14.7.2017, that after 15. that we have brought such a strategic document that is needed, and the national security strategy is very modern, we were all involved in the adoption of that strategy, so you are, remember I called you several times, and the rest of you were in that part, and that is, I say, after 15 years. And I also stand there that we need it once a year, so here we are now, so we covered that period from 14.7 to the end of 2018. Because it's the first time and I believe that year after year it's going to be year after year. Here I think it's a good trip, a good step in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144041	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144042	Thank you very much. Minister Strategy is an important document and it is a strategy that should be the protection of key Croatian resources for the survival of people in Croatia and outside Croatia, of course. However, we have not protected water, drinking water, we today have a huge problem where foreign companies enter, become owners of our sources at 50, 60 or 100 years. We didn't protect our agricultural land. I have opposed here, given amendments, since 2020 will be able to buy us empty Dalmatia, agricultural land bought by foreign natural and legal persons until in Hungary, Croatian natural and legal persons can't buy agricultural land, so we're not two key resources and we're not even the third, our Adriatic Sea, we're not accepted a proposal that we've made about declaring an exclusive economic belt. Three key subjects of the Zua survival of the people in this area have not been accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144043	Thank you, buddy butt. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144044	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So I personally think that in this National Strategy it should have been written that, here is one of the more recent security issues of large eviction, so people, especially young people. I think a serious state should be dealt with more seriously than this current government. Imagine that as a country that has such neighbours as it has, so that it loses as many people as we lose, I think that they would deal more seriously with the problem, not just the emigrations from Croatia but also BiH. So it is my view that emigration of young people has become a security problem and that it should certainly have existed in this strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144045	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Marko Vučetic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144046	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, you mentioned efforts to protect Croatian culture in Boka. I was speaking in this House about the Bokela Navy, and I would only warn from this place that, for example, the Bokle Navy and what Montenegro has done, wanting to separate the Bokela Navy from the Cola of St. Triple and put on UNESCO's list of immaterial heritage that this is our best example of how what is national can only survive through culture. In Montenegro, as far as I know, less than 7,000 Croats are pleading, citizens are pleading to Croats. During the inter-list period between 2003 and 2011, a thousand were less pronounced to Croats, running like Montenegrins, Catholics like Bokeljija. And it is therefore extremely important that Croatia protects this Croatian cultural identity through the Bokele Navy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144047	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetic. Would the Committee’s rapporteurs perhaps want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144048	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Prime Minister, representatives of the government. The report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy is a serious document in every serious democratic state. In accordance with the strategy, the Government is obliged, i.e. to report once a year to the Assembly on the implementation of the strategy, but the Government failed to implement the obligation in 2018 and formally confirmed the neglect of its duties towards the protection of national security. However, the government's substantive neglect of national security is much more dangerous for the Republic of Croatia because the government is not removing responsible persons from its position after public disclosure of the failures in the national security system, but is ignoring the failures and seeking excuses. The strategy is a comprehensive document confirming that national security is achieved through concerted action in all areas of development and not only through security instruments. In this respect, corruption in the public sector is also recognised in the strategy as one of the serious security risks. It is therefore a shame that the government is covering up alarming information from the European Commission which confirms that the political corruption of the judiciary in Croatia in 2017 has reached the bottom of all 28 EU Member States. Moreover, the latest data confirm that the situation is even worsened in 2018, i.e. that the ruling structure in Croatia is being buried deeper in the bottom of political corruption that is no longer able to hide even the top government officials under whose public objections are being relented by judicial institutions on the same day as we were convinced here in the Croatian Parliament. The strategy as well as the report confirm that promotion of the highest values of the constitutional order is one of the strategic objectives of national security protection. But we are witnessing an increasing institutional insurgency at the highest values of the constitutional order. The freedom of expression that was a prerequisite for the achievement of many other freedoms has not been under such political repression since the establishment of a democratic system in the Republic of Croatia. According to political forces, police officers are looking for journalists by order and ministers deny private expressions if they do not request official consent. I don't know if there's anyone in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs but if I have a question about what it feels like to do a high duty in an institution that, after 29 years of declaring the Democratic Constitution, has imposed an official permit for private expression on employees. Are these the values that were dreamed of by generations of Croats in the Croatian communist system. The strategy also points out the protection of Croatian defenders and families of the dead and missing participants of the Homeland War, and we have witnessed that the foreign minister has been deliberately violating the government's decision for two years and does not convene mandatory meetings of the Committee for the Control of Serbia in the implementation of the commitments made in the opening of Chapter 23. With the minister's sabotage, the government's valid decisions of the Croatian victim and defenders have lost two more years of their rights in anticipation of which there is also no word in the report. Why it's dangerous and why it's a threat and national security I'll explain it very simply. In public, the minister is pulling herself out with a flossula that Chapter 23 will not be allowed to close if Serbia does not co-operate, but one question is raised here. Due to Croatian victims waiting 28 years, the government of the Republic of Croatia must not waste time and wait for the moment of closure of Chapter 23 for Serbia, especially as Minister Bosnjakovic and Mr Sucic of the Ministry of Defence have already confirmed that Serbia is not cooperating. They were lost for 2 years because the pace of negotiations with Serbia could already and should have slowed down by stopping new chapters, such as for other reasons. The EU has done so with Turkey and this is when no one in Croatia can say it publicly either when the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government does not want to or does not know how to do it, here I will also say how. In accordance with the provisions, the negotiating framework from the EU general positions of 2014 envisioning the suspension of the opening of other chapters in the event of a lagging out of Serbia's progress in Chapter 23 or in accordance with the unanimous decision-making procedure at an intergovernmental conference where all 28 states must unanimously decide to open new chapters for Serbia. Here and in this place, we could diplomatically ask for support from other countries, and if we do not get support, we were free to block Serbia unilaterally. In other words, in 2017, the Croatian EU member could and had to present concrete and reasoned requests to Serbia for this very reason, and the commission was established, to prevent Serbia from making a favourable delay in its commitments to the Croatian victims and to prevent Serbia until Chapter 23 is closed on the agenda, when it is certain that all of you dear colleagues and colleagues are aware of this, must further increase international pressure on Croatia, that Serbia is not blocked or that this chapter is closed. So it is clear here that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs violates the government's valid decision and that this is in fact contrary to Croatian national interests which I have spoken of here several times in the Croatian Parliament. These are not the only reasons why this report cannot be supported, if we in MOST supported this report we would become participants in the relativisation of the systematic destruction of state institutions, constitutional values and values of the Homeland War. I, of course, call on all my fellow MPs not to accept this government report, and I will refer only briefly to what my colleague Bulj said. That three important things, water, land means and our sea all three means according to all three essential components of Croatian sovereignty, this government has shown ignorance. This has shown by rejecting the declaration of the exclusive economic belt or the extension of the jurisdiction of the Republic of Croatia at sea, it has shown that our water sources are being transferred in one way to the concession of new owners of Agrokor and they give to long-term concessions, and therefore MOST will already start to protect the source of water and water in the Croatian Constitution, i.e. the right to drink water as public good for all Croatian citizens, and as far as this country's land is concerned, this has already been given by the amendments that means putting a moratorium for the sale of land to foreigners such as Hungary, I have seen that today, colleagues from HSS have also launched an interpretation on this issue, which we will certainly support. So, we have a government which unfortunately does not care enough about Croatian national interests, about the interests of Croatian citizens, Croatian man, who neglects the values of the Homeland War and the Croatian Victim in the Homeland War and we have a government that, a colleague of Sladolov opened here as a question, does not pay attention to one of Croatia's biggest problems, which is the emigration and depopulation that we can freely say is the greatest threat to national security and a good colleague of Sladolev said this does not only apply to Croatia but also to BiH because the emigration of Croats from BiH is also a major threat to our national security. In this sense, this report cannot be supported, MOST will always be on the line of protection of Croatian national interests and national security or the security of our citizens and the survival of our country. In that sense, I repeat again, I urge all MPs not to support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144049	I thank my colleagues, Grumoji. My colleague Bulj answered his word. Here you go, buddy Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144050	Thank you, Chairman. On behalf of the MOST Club, he would ask a 10-minute break to point another one to the national security strategy on this report. In fact, to point out the key problems of national threats and national security. We are privatized by foreign companies, multinationally our sources. Agricultural land since 2020 in evicted Slavonia and 2/3 of Croatia wants to buy foreign natural and legal persons, while in Hungary, Croatian legal and physical persons cannot do so. We are not equal and thus do not protect our most important, food and water. The land of agriculture is food. We have not declared an exclusive economic belt, which is our, by international law, our obligation to protect the Adriatic Sea. We have an obligation to declare the IGP, you did not accept it. We have a problem with the depopulation, it's not solved. For what? 161 local self-government. 1/3 of local self-government has no conditions to open one, a place for one child in kindergarten. 2/3 of Croatia is empty. We don't manage our resources as we should, we don't protect our national resources. Not only have teleoperators in the Republic of Croatia, which have taken over our infrastructure, which we have put into foreign hands and thus left that part of national security into other people's hands, but they are not acting as in their own countries, they are not required for their building permits, they have the highest profit in the Republic of Croatia. And they use the infrastructure of our local self-government and energy. We favour large companies that draw money for renewable wind power plants, subsidies, 2 and a half billion kuna per year until you want to set up the microsolares. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144051	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. There's no one left with the request. I'm setting a break to 15 and 50. It's 3:30. [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 15.49 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Honored Professor Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and officials, colleagues and colleagues. The National Security Strategy is a strategic document setting out policies and instruments for the achievement of national interest and strategic objectives. The Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted this national security strategy in 2017 and according to the law, it must report once a year to the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Security Strategy. The strategy is written very systematically because it comes from defined national interests, 4 national interests, that is the security of the population and territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, the well-being and prosperity of citizens, the third goal is national identity, international reputation and influence and the fourth objective of equal position, sovereignty and survival of the Croatian people in BiH, the position of the Croatian national minority in other countries and Croats in emigration. The nine strategic objectives that are in the role of these national interests follow, and in fact it was the framework within which this report is submitted. The National Security System Act adopted in October 2017 created a legal framework for the development of the current national security model and paradigm. The National Security Strategy sets out that through the development of the Homeland Security System, the Republic of Croatia will ensure harmonised preparation and implementation of plans and regulations to determine the security protection measures and procedures relevant for national security, in particular the protection of critical infrastructures. The Homeland Security System shall include the coordinated work of all its constituents. Thus, as the minister said at the end of his report, it was not easy to write this report because there are actually two methodologically conflicting approaches. On the one hand, the implementation of the national security strategy can be assessed from the point of view of the performance of tasks and activities of each of the components of the home security system which are in the function of security risk management. On the other hand, from the point of view of the organisation and the functioning of the home security system, it is possible to display this approach as one whole that is defined within and through this country security model. The report that we have today aims to satisfy both of these approaches, show results according to the components of national security, on the other hand to give one full assessment. To the extent that this is complex, it is also evident that all of the strategies that Croatia has adopted and which are referred to this report, or more precisely which affect the national security strategy, are being mentioned. If we just want to count these strategies, we see how demanding it is to prepare a report like this. The strategies are next, Croatia's Regional Development Strategy by 2020, the Public Administration Development Strategy, the same until 2020, the Anti-Corruption Strategy by 2020, the Digital Society Development Strategy, the National Cyber Security Strategy, the National Broadband Plan of the Republic of Croatia, which formally consists of 4 related parts so as not to list them now, the Strategy for fostering innovation of the Republic of Croatia, the Smart Specialisation Strategy of the Republic of Croatia by 2020, which actually has 4 areas of health and quality of life, energy and sustainable environment, transport and mobility, security and food and economy. In addition, this is also referred to by the Climate Change Adjustment Strategy and indicates the creation of a strategy for the development of the civil protection system. In other words, the area of national security when we talk about possible threats or national interests when we talk about their promotion is comprehensive and sometimes unpredictable, on the one hand from territorial integrity to climate change or from hybrid wars and illegal migrations to depopulation and an inadequate education system. It is therefore very difficult to prepare the Report on implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia in a transparent manner. This is the first step in this report to refer to the state of national security but also to the first step in formatting such a report. It is extensive because the authors of the report were forced to follow an institutional but functional approach. The report mentions in one way or another the activities of almost all the ministries of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and shows activities according to adopted existing strategies in certain areas. Therefore, such an approach may be objecting on the one hand that the report is too broad and that some parts may have been left out or on the other hand that they may object that something of interest to national security is not included in the report. I could personally argue that the report could have included a summary of the current and predictable effects of investment i.e. EU Cohesion Funds for the security and development of the Republic of Croatia or the assessment of the exit of Great Britain by the fate and future of the EU or European security. However, such or some similar objections and nuances in the Croatian Assembly can be discussed and discussed on other occasions. The right question is therefore whether we can expect to summarise in the future the presentation of such reports as a complete picture of national security and the national interests achieved, rather than a collection of institutional efforts and impacts. However, the immediate answer to such a rhetorical question is such that such a prior agreement on safety development indicators and common indicators of the results of inter-resorial cooperation is necessary for both the ministries and the various specialised agencies and services. It should be pointed out that today we do not have standardised indicators and indicators to monitor the national security, nor do we in Croatia, but no other countries can boast of that. The Homeland Security System has the task of planning and coordinating all those services and institutions responsible for national security. This system is new, not that we have not had it so far but that the new organisational form is defined in 2017. I believe that one of the effects of this system will also be the implementation of a new methodology for estimating labour and systems and national security conditions. The question is, however, to what extent will the Croatian Parliament be organised and in the mood to discuss the national security of the Republic of Croatia in the categories of strategic opinion or will be lost in the search for partial, party and personal interests. We need to be aware that we live in a world where we are exposed to different national, regional and global interests and strategies without developing, as a state and society, scientific centres that deal systematically with these issues. TO think strategically, in order to know what is at strategic level as regional and global players and we in the Croatian Parliament must develop these abilities. It is my advocate to engage in the formation of such scientific centres so that we can discuss in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of broader insight into the strategic interests of international factors and to discuss these problems with understandable terminology. If I wanted to be maligned, then I should say that we here need to educate ourselves so that we can talk about these things on another level. Today we are discussing this report as it is, which seeks to be, cover all the ministries and all these strategies that are listed here, their effects. I think, in these circumstances, it was done to the maximum that this report should be accepted and the HDZ Club will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144054	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, respected colleague Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144055	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. The national interest mentioned in this report is the first security of the population and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia and then the strategic objective of achieving the highest level of security and protection of the population and critical infrastructures. Another place of national interest also mentions the well-being and prosperity of citizens. If we look in the context of these given national interests and objectives, which is indeed the fundamental objective of national security is the safety of citizens, the security of society so that man can go out on the street, live in harmony with his views and beliefs, feel free to move and feel secure. In this sense, this report is a complete failure, does not speak a single word about what is at this time the greatest danger for Croatian citizens, which is violence, violence in society, violence in school, domestic violence, violence on the road. We are discussing a national, state-of-the-art national security report in a situation where people are beaten in Brač, where athletes, because other nationalities or ethnicities, in which athletes are killed because others, from other countries and other nationalities, are attacked on the road, in a situation where a man in Rijeka has been killed because of other nationalities, in a situation where more and more women have been killed, so not only beaten, but also killed as victims of family violence, but also after the adoption of the Istanbul Convention, we have done nothing to implement it, in a situation where violence in schools is on the rise, so, if you are a woman, a Serb, a Roma, gay or you are not extremely right-wing political beliefs, you are not sure and can beat everyone on the road, the perpetrator is unknown, it is our main problem at this point, and we are spending money on all possible weapons, it is national security, our national security, and our national security is not going to be safe with our society. Under the appropriate circumstances any society can turn against democracy, and moreover if history teaches us anything, it is that eventually every society will do so, it is a quote from an article of... One of today's leading historians, about the ease of detourizing or restoring democratic standards, democratic freedoms and democratic institutions in modern societies, and that is what is happening to us at this time, and that is the greatest threat to national security, our society and freedom of life and even our identity in this society are at risk. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Republic of Croatia was much more European if you want me to not repeat what European values are, in 2012, 2013, 2014 but today. This applies to 4, I mean it refers to a lot of things, but it can be very plastically shown through four key institutions or institutes. One is the reform of the judiciary, the other is the fight against corruption, the third is the attitude towards neighbours, and the fourth is political culture, and I won't go into the details of all this because I don't have time for it, but if any interest without further ado, I can implicate it. Just to say briefly about political culture, the index of democracy, which the Economist magazine does every year, has found that the Republic of Croatia in the fields of political culture, political participation and civil liberties in 2018 has fallen from what it was from 2012 to 2015 to 52 from 167 countries, in 2018 it is 60th place and specifically in these points. This has become too serious to be used for party bickering or outwitting, because of all of us and reflects on freedom and on the safety and quality of life of all of us and if we are serious, and maybe someday we will become, we will try seriously to analyze why this happened, why such a fall of security occurred in Croatian society and such a huge danger that someone at least beats you up on the road and that the perpetrators are not found. In every society at all times there are extremists, there are bullies, however, it is the government and the state that sends signals from the top that are acceptable, which is not acceptable, what is sanctioned, what is lurking, what is a general civilization world-wide line, a profile that this country takes. One of the reasons why uncertainty is on the rise, why violence as a major threat to uncertainty, the main threat in Croatian society and the main cause of uncertainty why it is on the rise is because of the highest places including this here, including the Government of the Republic of Croatia, coming contradictory messages, we are once one, so we are the other. I'll take a few examples of the ratification of the Istanbul Convention on one side, the release of a family law that defines a family as husband, wife and children who was then withdrawn because even the government looked terrified on the other side. What's the profile of our society? Do we defend women and children from violence and make a society in which it is not a private matter or have a conservative concept in which, among other things, violence is a private matter closed in the family. Another such dichotomy, the signing of the Marrakech Agreement, so some normal attitude towards legal migration. Pushing, harassing refugees at the border with BiH with many even fatal consequences, civilisation, savagery, a strong, repeated declaration of support for BiH's entry into the EU, a parliamentary declaration on BiH and lobbying after Covic's loss of EU elections, demands for Serbia's lobbying on the European path, on the other hand, the pact and coquettes with Dodik. These are just some examples of confusion in value, which we are, who we are. We don't have to agree on who we are and what we are but one address must have a clear position. Our address Government in the first row, and then the Croatian Parliament doesn't have a clear position. One day they advocate one another, another day another. There are people who, they say, are small crimes working for political reasons, and there are no people who, for example, were in Dubrovnik the other day who threatened a man from Trebinj to disappear from Dubrovnik in 24 hours, which is even in the media, to my absolute astonishment described as not nationalistic reasons but probably football or cheerleaders because that man cheered for the Red Star or we have a tattooed Red Star on our hands. It's not normal society. And a society that tolerates such things, which tolerates the persecution of people whatever you think, which tolerates violence on the streets and verbally and physically against people of other ethnicities, against people of another sexual commitment, against women, sends a message to those lunatics who, in every society alone, in decent, orderly, normal society messages to them is not acceptable and will be punished. And in our situation, this violence that's being fueled and whose witnesses we are is the result of the message, if you're more politically close to me and you're not going to be anything, or there's going to be some kind of misapplication, so we'll forget, for example, treatment. Football-related violence, football fans as something specific, which is not simply savagery and violence is also one message that threatens national security. And that is why the fundamental interests and fundamental objectives set out in this strategy, which is the safety of Croatian society is absolutely missed. Croatian society is at this point the most insecure that has been since the war, so after direct war destruction and that is our topic, it should be our topic and that is our main problem. And until we gather around it, we will cover up, belittle, minorize, try to ignore the growing violence in Croatian society, which is the main foundation and the main reason why national security falls and does not grow, and everything else is stories. Thank you, we won't support this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144056	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, respected counterpart Ranko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144057	Dear Vice President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, respected ministers with associates I asked at first when a strategy was adopted because it only says what kind of relationship it really is to such an important document. If the National Security Strategy, which we know is extremely important in terms of content, the range of all those involved within it, can be ignored in that next sentence which says the following, which is, this strategy is based naturally on the period from its adoption, up to the report in the assembly, and the sentence before that is to be reported once a year by the Croatian Parliament on the implementation of the National Security Strategy. So, two sentences one to the other, the report includes a period from the adoption of the National Security Strategy to the submission of the report to the Croatian Parliament. This is a relationship to a very important topic, according to the National Security Strategy itself, but it is much more important for me, too, that this period has actually shown how uninformed the Croatian Assembly actually leads to the fact that it has already fallen apart. So what was in the strategic document that we are talking about today and the report is being submitted, has changed significantly in the meantime. First of all, we're talking about a system of civil protection where you have commands sitting next to each other today, that means civil protection command, number 192, which was supposed to be unique, pardon 112, which was supposed to be a unique number, until it was the police with 192, and then the firefighters and the next one, everyone sitting next to each other, and that's the coordination that we got in this new system in which we additionally, of course, militarized the story of a civilian component that was meant to be built precisely on these European standards and everything we've actually been doing for years on an existing model of civil protection. What I also want to point out, which is to remind you of the story that the consensus was not reached in the adoption of a rational security strategy because Mr. Minister rejected those proposals that were very simple, and they called for the HS Declaration which spoke about the same thing that is said in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, about the foundations meaning, antifascism, the winning countries in II. Holy shit. the war and opposition of the SDP Club specifically, the ignoring and the fact that we were one of the winning countries and that it was just to be installed inside and placed in the foundations and that the same way should be applied to those who are, as it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in preamble, and you can all read, contrary to the NDH is founded this country on ZAVNOH. If you do not want to read it, you can see it, meaning the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the fundamental act of this country. For this reason, we have not reached a consensus on the adoption of the strategy itself. Also, as regards the national interests that are listed in the 9th point, I will go, of course, to argue one by one, but before that, I would like to emphasise in the strategy itself, it is written that the Republic will, through a comprehensive approach, prevent and suppress radicalism and extremism, including education for democracy, non-violence, human rights and minority rights and a culture of peace. Now, if it happens in Croatia, every honor, I think we have a completely different atmosphere here, and not as it says in the strategy, which is that there will be a climate of zero tolerance towards violence, especially hate crimes, violent behaviour between the school population and youth, and abuse of sports and other manifestations, as well as demonstration of radicalism, extremism and hooligan behaviour. I didn't write this myself, this is written in the national security strategy that you proposed and which isn't, I said why I got support, in this segment certainly yes. This is what is actually a picture of Croatia today, and when you say that the situation is stable, that we should be satisfied, then I have to say that that is why there is no way in any case that such a report in public, so you know exactly what the picture is and how much, in these main indications that I have just read from the strategy itself, has not achieved what is written in it. On the area of the civil protection system and the comprehensive review of the existing state of ability, threats and risks, I stress that we have come to a variant in which everything that has been mentioned here and where a satisfactory level has been achieved and a more effective approach has not been realised, the laws have been changed. Today, we no longer have a situation where we are expected to be participants of exactly what we wanted to achieve comprehensively, and that is to engage NGOs, citizens, to encourage citizens' willingness to help each other and to culture solidarity as the first response after the accident and disaster. That's what's happened to the amendments to the law, and there's no more going on today. In the very story I also see that much more emphasis in the report itself is placed on things that were not intended to be clearly commented, but I will now remind you of some more details that are extremely important, which is during 2018. At a time when this was a report on the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, then it was not presented that almost all technical preconditions for achieving the objective were met, which is that the Republic of Croatia meets the technical conditions for entering the Schengen area. Also, in the second paper, it is also written so that it will be done by the end of this year, i.e. by the end of 2018, the recent year I was talking about, the minister here, Bozinović, the internal affairs, answered my representative's question publicly that for the mandate of this commission, this means that those who will soon be no longer be current in the EU, will be given the green light of the Republic of Croatia for entering Schengen. It is obvious that we have a serious discrepancy and that we can see how the strategy is being achieved, while at the same time in the foreign magazine, our Prime Minister, our prime minister, says that in 2024, the year in which we can expect to get the green light. So much about coordination when these people who are at the top ignore this very important and important segment that should be a backbone for me of very important things, which is the strengthening and prosperity of the economic, because you realize that if we were inside Schengen, that this should have a significant impact on the revenues of tourism, reduce the possibility that we actually have problems waiting at the border, yours in that segment where we are second-rate compared to the Schengen member states. I would also like to point out that, of course, we are skipping the situation on the ground, that is, we have a national security strategy in which the first sentence is that the situation is stable and secure. We have an impermeable border, and then the Slovenians give us back six thousand people. It's very interesting how 6 thousand people pass through the impermeable border, and that's about the figure that then connects to the tens of thousands that actually went because the Slovenians caught them 9200, they gave us back 6000 for now, and I'm only talking about last year, and then, of course, we return it back to BiH, and that's about the same code you grab a bucket of zirconium and you go back to the same stream, no shifts in that direction will be made, so I'm going to remind you of the thing, and that's that we're in March 2015. submitted a request for Schengen, equipped by the border police in the amount which is one of the strongest in Europe 97.3% of the EUR 120 million achievement. I saw a nice pre-election poster for the European elections, 6500 police officers who used HDZ, now in these elections, I'll just remind you that it was, of course, the same number of border police officers that the Republic of Croatia met in terms of joining the EU, and in the EU we entered 1.7.2013, it was one of the conditions of monitoring, one of the 10 points that they had to meet, a satisfactory number of border police officers precisely on that figure, therefore, it was not a little higher than it was before. The report itself says that the number has increased, nothing has been increased, the number remains the same, only the increased costs because people from the airport are referring to the Croatian border, which all those belonging to the border police are not doing their job at their place and 150 million, that is the figure we heard, in one of the previous sessions of the Committee on Internal Policy was spent only on additional costs for people at the impermeable Croatian border, through which thousands of migrants go through, of course, because otherwise, the situation that is absolutely insecure in Gorski Kotar in the area of Begov's Distance and similar. was different then. What I'm also trying to say is that the question of a questionable fulfillment in a situation where you don't know the data then you come up with one variant, it's that you don't know that two years from the entry into the EU you can only then apply for a Schengen entry, therefore it's already the period in which we enter the electoral process, however, everything has been made, solved, from the radar that we have on the islands to everything that is listed here in the strategy to thermocameras, helicopters that can read on the badge number of police officers, who can, without error, mean covering everything that is necessary to protect the border, and yet there is no success. It is also a question of respecting the Schengen, I must point out here, it means that it is totally misunderstood, European Schengen laws say people should be deterred from it, rather than to a regular transition. This does not mean that you catch him in Chabra or possibly somewhere in Istria you get in the van and get back to the border with BiH, do not record him, and then actually allow him to become one of those recorders that have already learned Croatian, how many times they have unsolicitedly entered the Republic of Croatia, it is not a job, it is the opposite of Schengen, and then we will actually see it by the judgments that are very current in front of the court in Strasbourg, so I am very interested in what the answer will be after all these warnings that I have said in HS, not in a bad way, but for the reason that I think that respect of the law is one of the European very important and important points. All those who think that the quasi deterrence, etc., that this is the solution, that this is a situation in which Schengen would be treated properly, the person must be detained, detained, determined whether he needs international protection or not if he calls for asylum, if it is not so readmission to return to the country from which he came and that is the way. So we're in a situation where we're actually spinning constantly, maybe one of these same or who knows how many thousands of people, the pressure is getting bigger and bigger, and as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, all the measures that are being taken may actually be best painted in the next document, which is the next document, it's a call to a former police officer, so the former police police border police are getting the next warning, if they don't respond and the absence doesn't justify it, they're going to be brought in, it's an invitation to report to the reserve of the border police, that's the situation we have today, it's very cool meaning there wouldn't be a confusion, 11.6.2. the call for an official form for an informed interview for the conduct of the survey, which is the safety of the Republic of Croatia, the MUP sends a call to the former means to the members of the police or to those who are retired to respond, unless they respond and justify being detained. This is done by the MUP who are obviously allowed to do whatever they want to do about the next, which is a citizen, a former MIP employee will probably enter the system I've been talking about for a long time, which is 7300 possible reserve police officers who could have long been activated, who could have been on the ground that they know very well, and then they wouldn't have paid 180 or 150 million kuna a year to cover those places where people who don't know where they are, who don't even know the terrain at all, but then it's said that it's not all that important. Also, the self-will that happens at this point not only in these situations of beatings, murders, feelings of uncertainty among citizens, the Law on Criminal Procedure clearly defines that people must be called for informed talks, informed conversations are done in accordance with the Law on Criminal Procedure, the MUP does not respect and does so in a way that it does so on the ground Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144058	We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144059	Thank you very much, President-in-Office, Deputy Prime Minister and representatives of the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Croatia's National Security Strategy has been adopted after, I think, 15, 20. It's not harmonised at all, we went into NATO, so we didn't have a national strategy, so it's commendable that we brought the national security strategy, that it has, but simply it hasn't been in line for years and it's good and positive. But when we talk about a national security strategy then we have to look at it from a security point of view, and that aspect is the most important, any risk and threat that can be prevented and prevented from kindergarten needs people involved to, I don't know, education, all structures, so they have to go to the military, the firemen, the police, all of them have to be unique. However, politics also means foreign policy which is very important, and I also said at the break that we have our resources that we must protect as part of sovereign law, regardless of what we have joined the EU, what we are a member of the EU, I think we are not equal because of the bad decisions we make, if we go what is important, means that we have water, drinking water, to protect drinking water, if Slovenia has protected drinking water, which is what they do, is public good, that is public good all of us, it can't be water commercially good, not because of what Miro Bulj says, but it's a petition in the EU, 1,600 000 people have collected petitions in these directives that water is public good and of course I've been giving that proposal for a long time, we have to save sources, let the American company take over the source of 2015 during Zoran Milanović within 15 and 37 seconds have submitted the source of Cetina to the foreign company that 50. He's using it, and £5.00 a year pays the source, 5.00 a.m. So, the water is the public good of every citizen, has every right, it benefits other countries, Belgium has solved it in one way, and Slovenia has solved it in the best possible way. As far as food is concerned, gentlemen, we are now importing never more food, food products of EUR 3 billion, of which most of what we would like to export and, of course, now that Slavonia has moved out, Zagora, Lika, has moved out, now since 2020. We'll sell, have the right to purchase land by a foreign legal and physical person, I warned that it was a problem. For what? If Hungary could, if Orban can protect Hungarian land, which is why the Republic of Hungary will not protect agricultural land from selling to foreign natural and legal persons, and Hungary is in the EU. So, a Croatian citizen or legal, physical, legal or company cannot buy agricultural land. So, the exclusive economic belt, so it's not just the territory, it's the territory and it's our sea. We have the full right to declare an exclusive economic belt, we did not declare it because we were then agreeing to join the EU, all of us. Then it was located, arrested, transferred, threatened by the Homeland War, not to declare an exclusive economic belt, not to breathe around Savudrija, we had no mercy, all of us generals and Croatian defenders were robbed, imprisoned, expelled from the army to court, and we had no mercy declared an exclusive economic belt. So, this advocacy policy now comes to us, when we approach, we've signed everything, if it were a word and signed that you lost the Homeland War, they'd sign the policies then, that Vladimir Seks would most easily quote in those 4 roars, then on behalf of Mesic and Sanader, of course, and the previous policies weren't there much better than 2000. And what we've come up with, we've signed a lot of things, but we have to fight this strategy to be equal across the whole area, in the EU, and not to be their colony, we can't be the essence of their colony, and that's why tomorrow we're going to be in the process of collecting the signatures of fellow MPs to get into the Constitution drinking water as public good, not commercially good, this UN Convention, the EU, the European Commission, the citizens, so that's ours, that's every citizen's right to the water, and we have to keep it. Of course it's very important that it's mentioned here, but before we go on what, to violence, I'd still mention the Republic of China protocol, here's the Ministry of Agriculture, the government's throwing it on the pages, we signed a protocol on exporting milk to China and dairy products. Before joining the EU, we had 65,000 economies dealing with dairy production, now we have less than 5,000, now we import 80%, then we import 30% of dairy products. So, we don't have enough for three kindergartens in three cities of dairy products, let alone to export to China, we don't have a irrigation and disposal system, here's the minister in Vrgoračka, the Vrgoračka Deputy Prime Minister, people are valuable, but they have a flood problem, there's no drain. In the Sinj field there is no irrigation, 6% of the area we only irrigate our agricultural land, and food is national security, food production is not dependent, we must not be dependent on water, not on foreign multinational companies and no one is exclusively entitled only to who has money that can have drinking water, and if we continue like this, 4 sources we are, and this Government gave Jamnica a foreign company a source, we are talking about sources, so 4 are already given and we have to stop it and we're trying to protect it, if Slovenia could, no reason, it was best arranged for us to do so too. As for the violence that should be stressed, the Istanbul Convention was passed, and the other day as it was implemented, it was said that it would all be settled, here's the Daruvarac who's been in Zadar since 18. Breaking his head off the urinal, the clams, the toilet, with that being seen, reduced his sentence to justice by 5. At 4 years and when we said that the triba would regulate our legislation, protect every woman of every family, we were the ones who had to protect, and we who did not vote for the Istanbul Convention here told us colleagues who called for anti-fascism and those values of anti-fascism said that we were also non-humans. So why do we need some Grevio, some associations to control us, here we have voted the Istanbul Convention, since the Istanbul Convention has increased violence, gentlemen, violence. It was then proposed by the HDZ government, a clap of SDP. And since the Istanbul Convention, violence has been brought in, it's bigger. Only the verdict of the Daruvart who beat up such a girl is sad and tragic, so who is it that we don't protect women and that there's no security, so we're all but us who were against the Istanbul Convention to protect sovereignty so that we don't trim the foreign associations we're going to pay for, but we were then the problem huge. The Marrakech Agreement, of course, all of our members, all of our neighbours did not accept the Marrakech Agreement or the compact, we accepted, without the right to what MOST proposed to go to the plenary session to discuss it, even we parliamentary representatives did not discuss it, and of course it is now national security. Who's going to help us now when the refugees come, who's going to help us? The Croatian man, Croatian police officer, Croatian soldier will have to be involved again. Who's going in? It wasn't Italy, Austria, Hungary, don't be afraid she didn't leave. Did we Parliamentarians argue here, let it be supported? We did not, but the government of the Republic of Croatia itself, went to Marrakesh and endangered the national security of our citizens in the sub-border area and in the area where Minister Krstičevic came from and where I and my colleague Babic, who is a parliamentary representative and all colleagues here, came from. Why didn't we discuss this in the assembly if we held to this House's democracy and dignity? They're not even making any sense, here's Miro Kovač here, he didn't want a proposal for a conclusion just to discuss it in parliament, but no Angela Merkel is the law and her co-operation with the Chinese, and we need to meet in this framework and let ours be Croatia, everyone will not support Marrakesh, but you must. Are we equal? I'm not even talking to telecoms. We must only protect national security, so we have put the telecommunications system into foreign hands without a shot fired that does not behave in Croatia as in its own country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144060	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We have replicas. Dear colleague Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144061	Dear colleague Bulj, I find it embarrassing that in the last few hours, therefore, these cheerleading groups have been mentioned as a security problem in the Republic of Croatia. Just to remind you, cheerleading groups weren't a security issue when they first started the Homeland War, when they went together to put out the fires, when they went to help flooded areas. I think it's a funny country that thinks of its cheerleading group as a security problem. Cheerleading groups are a problem only to a mob interest organisation because they took over the work of the RS institutions that were supposed to be involved in crime in their clubs they were rooting for. So I find it embarrassing, therefore, to mention fans only in the context of violence, and violence in some countries mentioned here as an example of Scandinavians has much more than in the Republic of Croatia even with deadly consequences, and this is never written about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144062	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144063	I condemn every violence, but I'm proud of the cheerleading groups in the Republic of Croatia, by Bad Blue Boys, I'm a member of the former Torcida, Armada, all the cheerleading groups, the Maligans of the Sons, I'm proud of these people because they've all given a lot of pain in the Homeland War and they're extremely brave, honest people who cheer for Croatia and their clubs. And I call them to unity and that violence is not necessary, but to generalize cheerleading groups in a way that is not appropriate is more than embarrassing, more than embarrassing. Condemning violence to condemn individuals has a state and let them act, as there is no meaning of all the bodies, but cheerleading groups that went first into the defence of the Republic and who first said that Croatia should be a free state, many have given their lives, now their children are fans, I think below The level and the generalization did not occur during Hitler. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144064	I would like to thank my colleague Bulj for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Sabina Vosovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144065	My colleague Bulj, with some parts of your exposure, I agree, but I do not know how you can tell that since the accession of Croatia, or the signing and ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Women against Violence and Protection against Family Violence, the number of violence has increased, I really don't know where you get this information from. When we talk about the Istanbul Convention, you must be aware of the fact that it is not enough to sign and ratify, but also act according to the signed one. To begin with, what almost costs nothing, the opening of telephone lines to victims of violence, creating assumptions for the opening of a women's shelter to a certain number of populations. There are also much more complicated steps to take for a while, but it is not good to communicate this way that by joining the Council of Europe, we have contributed to the growth of something that we want and want to prevent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144066	Thank you. Hey, buddy Bull's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144067	Dear colleagues, the protection of women and the weaker one, I believe that this is the priority of every state and that the exercise of the body by the judicial police, the DORH, all the services, the Tribal Associations support, but in Croatia we do not have a party to any association that we stand out millions, that we must be prepared. I don't know how you commented, you're coming from Zadar, that Daruvarcu is now after Istanbul at 5 years, after that violence that was disastrously generally difficult, the morbid ones looking at the video, that there's a reduced sentence from 5 to 4 years old and that such chicken characters are on discotheques in the Republic of Croatia, so no one's... But as you interpret the statement that we who voted against for our own reasons, that we were inhumans, but they were from a statement, no, I'm not telling you, but certain MPs were talking about us who don't vote for Istanbul that we're inhumans, that's right with fascist statements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144068	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Comrade Glasovac, I would like to ask you nicely if you need to discuss this more topic with your colleague Bulja, go to the bar, have coffee at my expense. On behalf of the applicant, State Secretary at the Ministry of Agriculture, Mr. Tugomir Majdak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144069	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here's a replica before I said anything. Here, in front of the Ministry of Agriculture and on behalf of the Ministry of Agriculture, I am obliged as one of the stakeholders of this process to draw up a report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, to explain in this House of Representatives and MPs, which means state and private agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia because we have heard for a year now, we have been hearing about some misinformation from this House so that the Ministry of Agriculture is obliged to explain what this is about. The Republic of Croatia has negotiated a 7-year moratorium, which stands out in 2020 as well as other member states that negotiated this in the EU, namely Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary and Slovakia, and Estonia and the Czech Republic, these first 4 countries also requested an extension of the moratorium and explained why they wanted this extension until the Czech Republic and Estonia asked for it, and they had just requested Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia and received an extension of 3 years. In time, Croatia will request a moratorium, an extension of the moratorium of 3 years, so that period of application for extended moratorium expires on 1 July next year and by the end of this year 2019, the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia will ask us to extend the ban on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners, the European Commission authorities based on what has been a good practice in these countries so far. Also, our new Agricultural Land Act, which was voted last year in this House, guarantees the right of championship and is nowhere to be seen that in this work, foreigners have the advantage so they do not recognise this new law, is an emphasis on the OPGs, on young people, on cattle farmers and on previous owners of state agricultural land. It also guarantees orderly management of private agricultural land, which is a step forward with all the practice so far, in all previous agricultural land laws because it is an unprocessed agricultural land for owners who are inaccessible or unknown, the Ministry of Agriculture can rent to future farmers who seek it. Also, as far as irrigation is concerned, the national irrigation programme was adopted 14 years ago, until this government did not do much at the same, we now have within the rural development programme where the counties are users, 6 new irrigation systems financed by European funds, another 7 is in the stage of preparations for realisation, which will be half of the total efforts made at national level so far in all these 14 years, only in these few years will the EU funds be put into operation as new areas under irrigation. As far as this work is concerned, we have the resources available through the rural development programme to increase these agricultural areas under irrigation. So, with regard to the very management of basic resources in agriculture, that is land and water, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is concerned about the care of the good lord or the protection of national interests, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144070	I thank the Secretary of State. Replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144071	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, as far as agricultural land was concerned, there was a law here, you were the promoter, I was giving an amendment not to be in 2020, 1.1th sale of agricultural land made possible to foreigners, you did not accept it. You didn't accept it, which is why I don't know the reasons. Are you going to ask for a moratorium, of course you have to because there's going to be too much pressure, you've emptied Slavonia from your bad policy, and now we're selling the country. Well, in Hungary, it was made simple. Orban made a referendum, 80% of Hungary's citizens said not to sell land to foreigners of agricultural land, it's a strategic resource as well as water. But this means that both Croatian citizens and natural and legal persons cannot buy land in Hungary and in Croatia, I support that we ask for a moratorium, not a moratorium, but that for 20 years there is no purchase of agricultural land to minimally foreign natural and legal persons until the Croatian farmer recovers and returns the people to Slavonia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144072	Thank you for your response. Next debate, respected counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144073	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues and respected representatives of the ministries that are part of the implementation of the National Security Strategy. The national security strategy is like an organism with a lot of organs, where each body has its own laws and legislation, and all together have to function as one symbiosis. And the National Security Strategy for our citizens who are rare, but some still follow this debate should say that one is a lasting process, and that the risks listed in the National Security Strategy are not something unique to Croatia, but that threatens these risks too, something that is important to every Member State in particular in the EU, and they are almost equal for all countries in the EU. There's been a few questions asked here. The question has been asked whether the Republic of Croatia is more ready today than before, if we will than a year ago I think that was the question, to protect yourself from terrorist threats and other threats, the answer is yes. The second question, did the Republic of Croatia protect its critical infrastructure systems? Which means critical infrastructure, so that means according to that Cybersecurity Act of Key Services Operators and Digital Service Providers, it's a vital state-owned infrastructure involving 17 resolution bodies, if you want it to be the energy sector, that's the police sector, the defence sector, that's the virtual sector for which the same designated bodies are entrusted. In order for our citizens to understand better about this area of national security, therefore it is a very complex area, each resort has its own obligations within that implementation, and I will focus on what is least on what is said, and that is information security. We have a high-quality legislative framework today, we have the Information Security Act, we have the National Cyber Security Strategy, we have the Cyber Security Act of Key Services Operators and digital service providers where Croatia has, for the first time, actually protected its critical infrastructure and where 17 resolution ministries, 17 bodies including resolution ministries, and there are operators, telecommunications operators, so the banks, so the entire infrastructure with which one state is involved in the implementation of this law. The law was very important, for 3 years it was coordinated between the European Commission, Parliament and council bodies to finally come to this and how to protect the infrastructure of each country, and the Office of the National Security Council is the body in charge of implementation with co-operation with the Ministry of Defence and with the Ministry of Defence. And we'll almost have a synergy of academic and operational levels, and when we talk about national security, then we have to objectively say that all advances have been made. And some colleagues have asked here before, so where are the analyses and where are the strategies, that we don't have an analysis and that we don't have strategies. I wonder why we have analysis, we have synthesises, we have strategies, but much more important than that, than these analyses, synthesis and strategy is more important if we have results. And what we can say, so we have results. And let's not get anybody's results back here in the assembly. Always, of course, as I said in the previous debate, objectively speaking, it can always be better and we strive to do better, but let's not verify what's been done. Because if we're estimating the results of the resolution ministries and these governments, then we're estimating the results, the effort and the work of many of the people behind these results. I know that political reasons always come first here and sometimes they're more important than some objective evaluation, but that's the right of everyone in politics, but it's not objective. The objective thing to say is that, that and that, there's still room for improvement here, and we're going to improve this if we can depend on it and on it. I think it's an objective speech. And every objective debate is based on these facts, and each of course serious state has a prerequisite for security and stability based on the symbiosis of all the relevant and key bodies that are responsible for the infrastructure of each country and so does Croatia. When we talk about this critical infrastructure, when we talk to all stakeholders of the national strategy, then we talk about both the country and the water and the air and the critical infrastructure and if you want water supply and the energy sector, and then we talk about this virtual, Internet sector that is important to national security because whoever says the Internet is not part of national security or that the economy is not part of national security, with all due respect, that person is then not familiar with what is national security. Because, as I said metaphorically at first, it's one organism to make our citizens understand better, a complex whole, but each organ has its function and all work together in one symbiosis. And national security would be that some kind of immune system of that organism and we have an internal immune system so it's our bodies, and we have an external immune system that's just metaphorically express myself, which is our associations in which we're involved, that's NATO, that's the EU, that's the UN, etc., so we have our own system internally, we're working together to defend our national interests, but we're stakeholders and interests if you want in Southeast Europe, in the world and globally, but always taking care of our national interests. New threats like I said come from the Internet and I often hear questions, which means homeland security in terms of the Internet at all. Of course, there are many foreign concepts and that our citizens are not often, and neither would I be if I were not engaged in this area, so it is not often clear to them what national security means, which means homeland security, in which the relationship between the two security and the two strategies, which is the law in charge of one, which is for the other, I think that this may not even be a concern, should be bothered by why it is as important cybernetic as in terms of national security. So it's important that, as we see around the world, it's not rare for political systems to change, that very stable governments fall, that they come to power certain anarchist and populist movements that actually do long-term damage to both the state and the people in a way that the acquired rights of one right take a step back, and that whole cyberspace is a very delicate area for criminal, political and then for military activities and each of these activities requires a specific approach. And what we need to bear in mind is that the fact that we are a NATO member doesn't have to mean that we are going to be in 10 years, and that it doesn't matter who's in power and certain anarchist and populist movements, individuals of their own interest, out of certain interests that I can't get into right now, they want to get out and out of the global, regional partnerships which can be very, very dangerous, which can be very harmful in the long run, which can be devastating in the end for that country. My personal opinion is that it is good that we are both in global and regional partnerships but it is my personal opinion and opinion of every reasonable and rational man but that, with that opinion many disagree and we must be aware of. And we have, here he mentioned to me fellow Ostojić, when there was a report on the Committee of the National Security Strategy, so on 27 June 2017, that some colleagues wanted to install a text mentioning the anti-fascist movement in the Republic, it should be mentioned that we have a strategic goal of national identity, international reputation and influence of the Republic as part of a national strategy, however, it has already been incorporated into the original foundations of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, therefore there is no need for it to be built on here too, because it would be orderly, any duplication. Here, ultimately, the meaning of the national strategy is actually a comprehensive concept of security that ensures better coordination, better strategic planning, better protection of our citizens and better functioning of the state in general, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144074	Thank you very much, we have a replica, the first respected representative of Mira Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144075	Thank you. You colleagues spoke about analyses, strategies and results and their comparative comparisons, here today we could hear that Croatia is today the most insecure of the Homeland War. Everyone is violence for conviction, but there is also a need to distinguish between public security and national security. The problem of public security if by foreign displays and polls or even most credible only the state of tourism, then Croatia is one of the safest countries not only in Europe but also in the world. Tragedies to one another that we can see that the security polls or even the state of justice are done on the basis of newspaper inscriptions and not analysis of the factography so that these discussions in the Assembly also contribute to this false display... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144076	Honored representative Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144077	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague. Well, what you're getting at is part of the so-called. hybrid warfare, if you look at other than HINA, which is a reporting agency and which has to report objectively on these three or four points today, are all connected to very vital resistors, as reported, you will see that this is not objective reporting except HINA, so now whoever feels called here. As far as access to controversial national security is concerned, on the basis of individual incidents, it is an unserious approach, one is the jurisdiction of the MUP, the second is the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence, talking about some kind of domestic violence, calling the Ministry of Defence, it just shows that the jurisdiction of the two ministries is not known, or is deliberately done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144078	The next replica of the respected representative, Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144079	Dear fellow Members, I would point out, however, that it is absolutely necessary to underline this and there was no reason left and the protection of Croats in the world is also written in the Constitution, so we put it as one of the priorities. I don't think it would really be a waste to remind myself of that, I will just remind you of the Declaration of Antifascism brought here in this Croatian Assembly which speaks precisely about the need to be found in the legal solution especially in the strategy, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144080	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144081	Well, I'm a respected colleague for respecting all the values of all the systems that were, say, worthy of respect and it's written in the Constitution, but it doesn't need to create redundancy in laws. If something is described in one law, there's no need or the Constitution to duplicate how we want it, I suppose the intention is absolutely correct, but I think that if you want it for some strategic and operational reasons, it's unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144082	Thank you. The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Ivan Lovrinovic, he is gone, he is losing his right to speak, and the following will be spoken by respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144083	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister, State Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored counterparts and colleagues. I'm always glad when there's a certain sequence, when one government has a certain sequence, and she went from before the election with her program Reliable, among other things she talked about national security and defence, or the National Security Strategy, which responds to today's challenges such as crime and terrorism and better protection of the state border itself. The strategy itself is one basic document, which combines policies and instruments to achieve national interests. I would like to remind you that this strategy has not been adopted for 15 years and for the sake of Kukuriku, when we spoke and warned the current Minister Kotromanović at the time, so I am surprised that on behalf of the SDP Club, Col. Ostojić spoke about the fact that it was adopted on 14.07.2017 and that this is now coming as a report in HS. So, the truth, perhaps half a year late, but it should be reminded, so when Kukuriku was the government, then the coalition in power, we received individual reports with a delay of 2 or 3 years. So that wasn't at all taken care of, therefore, if this is the only failure that happened, then I don't think it's a failure at all. Comrade Tudjman spoke on behalf of HDZ in fact 4 main objectives, i.e. 9 strategic objectives of this strategy itself. I don't want to repeat myself, but it should actually be said that every MP should read this report and actually see what the national interests of the Republic of Croatia are related to it. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia, a colleague of Petrijevcanin, spoke about these 3 laws that we had related to the defence ministry's own report, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Defence Ministry Act and now related to the strategy, are in fact a guarantee of Croatian freedom, independence, sovereignty, territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia and should pay great attention to this. In particular, I personally enjoyed last year and this year, on 28 May when we were at the Vatroslav Lisinski Hall to see actually such a well-trained, disciplined and organized Croatian army and trust me, the perception of citizens, when they see such a thing, creates a single impression of security. In the task force of civil protection, I think it is very well highlighted today, in fact a large number of people and services are involved, from the Red Cross itself, the HGSS, the local community, the regional community and, in fact, through this strategy, one place should be known in any kind of threat, any elemental accident or similar, the place from which it is managed. I remember, when the flood occurred in Gunja, although we had the law then, then we ran around Croatia then, I remember, the left packages at the Arena Centre, completely unnecessary, unorganized, babling actually those areas, and actually through this kind of vision it should be much, much better organised. What needs to be particularly apostrophysed, I think it has come across a good public echo, which is the transfer of the army to certain areas of the Republic of Croatia because where the military and the people feel differently, especially in these border areas, I would say both Sinja and Ploč and Vukovar, not only because of the length of the border, and because of a series of threats that the Republic of Croatia threatens and that it can actually be prevented in time and in time. What I would like to point out in particular, and this irritated me in the discussions of my colleague Pusic, if you listened carefully, at the very beginning, she said, this national strategy, as if it had been written for 2019, and not for 2017, i.e. during 2018, therefore, counterpart Pusic wants to create a picture of Croatia as a violent state. Specially undermining the violence of certain... According to Serbs or, therefore, the Croatian state, this government is fighting any form of violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is not a problem if it is the Roma, the Serbs, the Croats, the young, the old, so against any form of violence. There isn't a country anywhere in the world where you don't have certain extremes where it can happen both in schools and in stadiums and in the street and for any other reason, so if you want to go to stadiums when certain singers or certain groups, fun or rock music, don't matter, that there isn't a certain violence going on. So, violence is always present and everywhere, but to create a picture of a violent state, I also remind you of a report by the Attorney General who said something like that in this 2018 report that I don't agree with at all, so a country where the Ustasha features are everyday, every day violence now and when you create one such picture and when you send it and when you see it diplomatically... Then you're actually creating a picture of your own country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I draw the conclusion, the worse it is, to create a picture of the Croatian state, and any shifts, including those related to the national security strategy as such, are not welcome. What especially irritated me at Mr. Ostovic's. My colleagues, so when he talks about violence, or discrimination, I will remind him of a shameful inquiry that is on his pages, actually addressed to the MUP on HS pages. So this is inadmissible what you've done, colleague I'm going to stay, and I'm going to read it. So this is your representative's question. Please ask the minister to provide me with information relating to those newly employed employees at the seat of the MUP according to the information system of the MUP in how many cases their spouse or at least one of the parents had a residence in the area of the town of Imotski and its respective settlements during their lives. And you're not embarrassed, so this is an unprecedented form of discrimination, racism and counts of blood cells. What does that mean, if you came back to power and by any chance the Minister of the Interior, I'm sure you won't be, which the Imogenes should write in the MUP for the Property and the Dogs, forbidden entry? What are we supposed to wear red ribbons? The minister answered your question. Of what, 1,500 people, 6 people are employed from the Imot area or one of their parents. Well, not that it's a shame, it's inadmissible, I couldn't believe it when I read it. So when you talk about it and when you talk about a strategy in this strategy, you touched it, so here I was on purpose today because it's absolutely, absolutely unacceptable to me. What does not run out of time, so all of these different possibilities that the Republic of Croatia is doing are certainly positive and need such information with the Europarliament and with Frontex, in fact, to exchange this particular thing especially because we and the EU Directive first took over in the exchange of data from passengers in the airspace, which is very important as a tourist repetitive country. So, it's not a small business, and I think it's certainly a tourist season like our project that some other countries want to take over is one good and excellent project that goes along with all of us, and I think we should work on this. What we less or less know about, which is that this strategy has been done by a large number of people and they are not actually mentioned, and they have done one big job. And my colleague Tudjman was actually talking about a series of strategies that needed first to read, analyse and integrate in a document like this. It's not easy at all, and I think about these people, that we owe them a great deal of gratitude especially through the very reports of their assembling, and I know it's on one volunteer base, but I guess it's people and experts and academics, so the professional public and those people who deal with both local and regional self-government who actually work on this. What I want to say at the very end, so this strategy speaks of a single framework for the integration of all the components of our system in the security sector, and the emphasis is actually the most on the MUP, the Ministry of Defence and the intelligence agencies. What I may not personally be pleased with, I would not like to talk about some things publicly and transparently because some of the weaknesses that we present here are those who are putting us at risk can always benefit and have in their favour, and to the harm of the Republic of Croatia. So, I do not always have a lot of data being available and even here publicly in the Croatian Parliament, it should still remain for services that we should trust as well as the Croatian military that enjoys great reputation in the Croatian public as an institution, and I hope that this reputation will be experienced by some other institutions in Croatian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144084	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he raised the plate of the respected representative Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144085	Injured by 232, the speaker can only talk about the topic under the established agenda, if he is away from the topic the president will warn him to stick to the agenda theme, if the speaker after the second calls for me to stress further. About how I'm a representative question of what my constitutional right has put in place and what kind of answer I've got, Mr. Knows it, I still don't know it. That's a pretty interesting thing, absolutely no relation to national security or strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144086	Okay, I estimate that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured because as often as today, it has gone broadly and talked about various things that are not strictly related to the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy. Some colleagues talked about it, some colleagues went broadly, so this one line can go wide after that border no longer. Uh, now we're going to go to replicas and the first replica is, will have a respected representative, Ranko Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144087	The Honorable Chairman of my replica refers first of all to the question of an important document. It's a document called the National Security Strategy, it's a strategic document, and you, as a colleague, are calling for it to be normal not to submit a report as prescribed in Chapter 5 of that same strategy. Neither for 2017, for 2018, and now that you are talking about parliamentary issues I have initiated this to come on the agenda here because I asked for this document to be delivered to the Croatian Parliament at last. So much for parliamentary issues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144088	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144089	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, this document came to the Croatian Parliament on 17 January 2019, I said if there were any delays I think it was the minister in his announcement today when he spoke and spoke about these things in the formation of the strategy itself half a year was actually the coordination itself and everything that happened. I think he explained it a lot better than I should right now because I don't know about the information that made it half a year late. I don't know about that information. Of course I would like all the things that are in this Croatian Assembly to come in time and that we can discuss them, but I remind you, remember when you were in power we received these reports, these were not at all, but similar two, with two or three years late, with two or three years late. So you're going to let this half-year delay not so important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144090	The next replica of respected MPs Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144091	Thank you very much. Your esteemed colleague mentioned crisis situations so you cited an example of Gunja or, say, a refugee crisis. And now I always like to ask three questions to see the difference how it was before and how it was now. Let's just say that the county headquarters that was formed was able to solve the crisis on its own? Did that county headquarters in the Gunja case react quickly to the state headquarters? We know it wasn't, and we know it took a long time. And whether time was lost and multiple responsibilities, was not one line of command responsibility etc. He's learning from mistakes. If there were then one crisis headquarters, with one line of responsibility, with one line of command responsibility and cooperation, such a situation would be prevented. Practically now we have one line of command responsibility, we have one crisis headquarters and one system of responsibility with inter-resorship cooperation. So 3 in 1 as we say, and these situations should be prevented.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144092	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144093	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, so I only mentioned Gunja because I left that picture in my head like that I remember that we talked about it, amphibious vehicles running generals in boots, raybanks, the president of the government falling off an amphibious vehicle, there's no telling who's drinking, who's paying. So it happened, there was a scenario of the unwanted that shouldn't happen to one state, so from one center that is managed, and it's known who should be doing it, at that point it was just a matter of good coordination. Gunja can happen to anyone, such elemental accidents can happen to anyone, but that's why there's a state, so there are centres that have to take care of it anyway, so we pay them. This strategy actually speaks of such things, so the link between the MUP, the Ministry of Defence and all those institutions and services that should work at such moments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144094	The next replica of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144095	Thank you. So, in today's report, my colleague Babic is all about hybrid action against the Republic of Croatia. So I ask to what extent the diplomacy of the RS representatives towards their citizens actually contributes to this hybrid warfare, according to their country. We had today's debate where one representative therefore condemns hooligan violence in the Republic of Croatia, and at the same time supports a political settlement over the entire Croatian people in BiH, thus supporting this congratulating Komsic in his election and pre-determining the institutions of the Republic of Croatia for condemning it. On the other hand, let us remember that the former minister used to accuse Croatia of aggression against BiH or that the former president of the Republic of Croatia was chosen by a large majority of votes, so speaking in Knesset, he spoke of a Ustasha snake that is deeply complex still in the heart of Croatian citizens who chose him most of the votes, and which was the answer in World War II for therefore crimes against Serbs and this and Jews. So to what extent this is actually the inside We're acting on.../Speakers speaking at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144096	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144097	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It's hard to sum up a few things in one minute, but I'm witnessing certain events that have occurred at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, it went from one institution to another, imagine the authority of the Croatian Parliament dealing with ideology, so it deals with ideological matters refuting certain things of a Council to face totalitarian regimes, and such reports go to you outside, whether it is a report by the attorney general, a universal report by the Commissioner for Human Rights, former Minister.../incomprehensible/... which is at the time we are talking about Roma problems in Croatia with a written report, and has not yet come to the Republic. So one image is created, a completely unnecessary picture that is not a real picture in the Republic of Croatia. What you were saying, and you mentioned a respected colleague, so it is her right to treat her as well as to the Croats in BiH, or to favour her. The neighbour as such, I cannot influence it, but I am sorry that this is happening because of the Croats in BiH. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144098	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144099	Thank you, Vice President. In your debate, you also touched on something that we can call grey glasses and pink glasses, thinking that in this respect it means implementation of the National Security Strategy is actually not exactly good for you to look through pink and saying that everything is good, that everything was actually on the trail of preservation or protection of national security. Is that really possible? Because if we don't talk it would mean not to talk about violence, that there is no violence or if we don't talk or we don't see that there are poor people, means that poverty is gone and that it will disappear in Croatia. To talk about whether or not there is discrimination means that there is no discrimination in Croatia at all. So is that really true and whether pink glasses Are they really leading national security? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144100	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144101	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I understand you completely, colleague Alfirev, so I'm not saying there is no violence and there is no violence, but I don't like that selectivity. You know a selective approach to violence at a given time to use it for day-to-day political purposes or to create an image that is not. I assure you that's not the case. Violence at school is there, of course, violence on the street, so there's, I don't know at concerts, of course there's and there's got to be a fight against it, so 0 is tolerance to violence in the Republic of Croatia, so no one will normally tell you that it's for violence, but I'm against that selectivity because let's say that it happened that I don't know two say that the Serb in Brač, I don't know if it's true, but well, if I accept that fact, but we're talking about violence against the Serbs, according to the Croats, towards the Roma, we're against violence, and not for it to get away with it, and then it lifts to one higher level and then about that we're making an unnecessary problem and an ugly picture. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144102	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144103	Col. Babic discusses national strategy today, unfortunately painted politically, ideologically and advocacy to certain groups of society. It's simply a fact that can be read from these discussions today. This is exactly the topic that shouldn't be, because violence is violence, and if I think something's wrong, then I'm saying that I think we should do it that way. Today, however, we have even heard a statement here that violence comes exclusively from the right political option, and this is all wonderful and wonderful, but it is right-wing who commit violence. We even heard it in the assembly here on behalf of a club. Also, counting the blood count of a country's blood cells in Croatia for 45 years has been counting them, so I guess they won't count them today, so remember that eradicating one fellow interior minister, it wasn't a colleague of Ostojic but one another in Vrgorec when he deleted so many people, but it's very interesting that they don't mind those who come for employees and compensation for children across the border in some other areas of Croatia, and no one will solve it because then it would be an attack on a national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144104	Dear Representative Babic's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144105	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. That is why such selectivity, as well as some historical reasons, which is a particular area which you have called the province’s Imotski and have an ugly experience, and even when a parliamentary representative goes to count the blood cells of these people is inadmissible. I really didn't expect it from him, but when it does, when it's that way, what should we do with these people? Make it up somewhere on Mars, somewhere outside the Republic of Croatia, so we'd be happy and here, so it wouldn't happen if some real estate guy didn't hire the MUP. So, I agree with that, an ugly picture is being created and what comes from the left option, which is that this right side or right side in Croatia is prone to violence, and the left is not, they are the avant-garde of this society and we have to respect them as such avant-garde. Well, it's not like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144106	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Ljubica Maksimchuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144107	Thank you, Vice-President of the HS, the Honorable State Secretary with his associates. I welcome this report and, of course, the National Security Strategy that we brought, here, after 15 years. It is a quality document and is a good basis for all our activities in the area of national security protection. The fundamental interests of every policy and national security are to develop a sense of security among citizens as well as to create a sustainable and stable state. A strategy defined in 9 strategic objectives supporting relevant national interests. We believe that at present the greatest national interest is the one concerning the economic part of the security system, which is the creation of an economically stable and sustainable Republic of Croatia, together with demographic reconstruction and revitalisation. The national interest that the government of the Republic of Croatia particularly stresses is the protection of the Croatian people in BiH, as one of the constituent peoples, but other than BiH, is also important protection and Croats in other countries in the environment, such as Serbia, Montenegro, Slovenia, preservation of their identity, culture and ensuring their education in mother tongue are an important segment of Croatian foreign policy. As I mentioned earlier, the first national interest is the safety of the population and the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, and the first strategic objective is to achieve the highest level of security and protection of the population and critical infrastructures. I especially note the efforts that the government and the competent ministries are putting into cybersecurity which is becoming a growing problem in modern security threats. I also note that Security 18, maintaining order and cooperation with other countries during the tourist season is extremely important for our economy because tourism is a very important source of income for the Republic of Croatia and for the protection of tourists, but also for the domestic population during the largest inflow of the foreign population in the tourist centres of the Republic of Croatia. As far as border control is concerned, the government and the MUP are committed, as we have seen in the report on the procurement of the latest technology that effectively controls people, goods, as well as means of transport. Special attention shall be paid to illegal crossings of border crossings, as well as to ensure that natural borders are monitored at all times in order to ensure possible routes taking place in illegal activities. Any improvement in the system is impossible without the education of professional staff involved in protection, so I welcome the education of members or participants of police programmes, of course, the participants need to be familiar with the modern threats and prepare them for specific situations on the ground. Of course, there is also an important role in the SOA that collects, processes information, intelligence activities, early threat-risk-recognition programmes, as well as other tasks related to intelligence activities. SOA continued work to adapt to modern challenges, above all, terrorism and counterintelligence activities. Along with SOA, there is also an important role of the VSOA, which, together with NATO and EU security tools, participates in defence and intelligence activities related to military operations and activities. Of course, civil protection is very important, it's traditional already with us. First of all, it is based on the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, the fire department, which, of course, protects critical infrastructures, civil protection is an inter-departmental sector of the MUP and the MORH where strict coordination is needed in order to avoid possible misunderstandings, which we have already been able to hear through previous discussions. And of course, to reduce and remove damage and interference. The government of the Republic of Croatia is helping units of regional administration and self-government in the purchase of equipment, as well as in the education of personnel because we saw that the EU puts civil protection in the focus of its secure policies. It is interesting to note how the Republic of Croatia participates in numerous rescue actions in other countries, and in particular to the sea, so I will note that the report says that 480 rescue actions were carried out at sea in which 765 people were saved, which are tourists, which are migrants. We see special efforts that the government and other resolutions are investing in demining. In the last few years, minefields that have remained from the time of the Homeland War have been reduced from 446 square miles to 365. An application has been made to the UN to extend the deadline, of course, and to grant more funding and the assumption is that by 2025 the entire area of the Republic of Croatia will be completely cleared from mines, but here, of course, it is to praise that we have several counties that have been completely cleared from mines, among other things, my Brodo-Posavia County. The security of borders is one of the fundamental elements by which Croatia will enter the Schengen area. The Croatian border with BiH, Serbia-Montenegro is one of the EU's longest external borders and needs its systematic control and supervision. It is particularly important to obtain modern technology, cameras, and other equipment that would reveal any possibility of illegally crossing the state border. Of course, the strategic goal is Croatia's entry into the Schengen area and here, I hope that all the preconditions for this have been met. The defence of territorial integrity and the preservation of sovereignty is a goal that Croatia is trying to achieve from its creation, as well as the rest of the NATO alliance states, Croatia, we see that it continuously increases its defence expenditure to achieve those 2%. Here, I thank you again here, there is no minister, but there is a secretary of state, for everything they invest, which materially, which humanely, to facilitate and facilitate the lives of Croatian soldiers, of course, professional soldiers. It is recent, of course, that the MORH conducts daily working meetings with representatives and leaders of other countries. He is constantly working to expand, cooperate and exchange experiences, which, of course, is very important in order to cooperate and to have information that is important at the right time. Of course, the Government of the Republic of Croatia recognized the importance of climate change and impacts that the same have on the lives of citizens, but also on the economy of the state and the damage they can cause, even on critical infrastructures. Therefore, one of the objectives, we see that the creation of an ecologically sustainable Republic of Croatia has a very important role to play in EU funds as well. A very important segment of security that is often forgotten is energy security in the Republic of Croatia. Special attention shall be paid to the timely supply of energy to the citizens, in order to make it available and, of course, to make it available at the most favourable prices to be formed, of course, on the energy market. In energy security, it is important to note that Croatia has improved its electricity supply, of course it invests much more and much better, but here, so it goes forward. The gas supply will be improved, of course, by building LNG terminals that we saw the EU also declared by its strategic project. They will, of course, contribute to the gas supply and efficiency of Croatia, but also other parts of Europe and make them less dependent and, of course, more accessible. One of the resources that the Republic of Croatia has in sufficient quantities are forests and they account for almost 33% of Croatian territory. Unfortunately, they are in the summer months exposed to fires. Fire departments, as well as canaders, who are able to put out fires in relatively short time, have been engaged in the shut-off. It is important that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is promoting and advertising that systematically citizens warn and note that forests are natural wealth, that they need to be preserved, that they are treated and treated with the environment, when they are staying in it, means the way they should be treated. Also, the Republic of Croatia is at the top of the world by supply of drinking water by the number of inhabitants. The preservation of drinking water supply and proper management is one of the main interests of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Demographic renewal, in my opinion now, at this point perhaps one of the most important, also one of Croatia's strategic goals as well as all countries, and Croatia faces a demographic deficit and is therefore constantly working to improve the demographic image. The Ministry of Demography, of course in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Croatia has passed a series of laws that are trying to improve, which is, I will only list some, the Law on maternity and parental support, which is increased meaning in those other 6 months of leave for parents until then. Two thousand... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144108	We have one replica of the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maximchuk, you've said a lot in your debate, I could refer to more than one thing, but I'm only going to refer to one. So you said that education is important and that you welcome the education of police officers and that's where I agree with you. Education is important, but that sentence is just proof that this strategy is a list of beautiful desires, and that this report is a set of nice words, because in this strategy we are talking about the importance of training police officers, this same government, your government, is proposing another law called the Police Law that lowers the criteria for the education of people who invest in police service. So from the current 4-year education, the minimum for someone to be able to participate in the police service, by a proposal for a new law, this government puts it down to three years of schooling. So, this strategy, you need to monitor it's accompanying activities. and these are other laws and actions for it to be implemented, and unfortunately, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This government isn't working. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144110	Answer, Your Honors, Maximchuk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144111	Thank you, dear colleague. I'm not going to degrade anyone, of course, that the MUP is trying as best as possible to make that law and to adapt it to, of course, the challenges that are both equal and the education of the staff. I think we all need to work together, Croatia is a safe country, but together we need to spread tolerant and just society.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144112	The next individual debate is that respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So today when we talk about a report on the implementation of the national security strategy in the Republic of Croatia, we need to ask ourselves what national security is in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to go into the entire width that this strategy includes, there's really a lot of areas to talk about, there's a lot to talk about, but just, 10 minutes to do that isn't enough, and I'm only going to touch one part of this strategy. So, in this report, it says, among other things, where all the things that threaten Croatia, which are not threatened, which are good, which are not within the borders, say they are new, are one of the new main challenges that Croatia faces, other than the terrorist threats that threatens all of Europe, and illegal migration. And that in order to protect the external borders of the Republic of Croatia, Croatia has increased the number of police officers on our border and is every day directing new forces to the border to stop it, however, what is happening in practice is something quite different. So, the migrant crisis is taking on ever wider and wider scales, I come from the Primorje-Gorski County, which is one of the routes of the migrant crisis, and I have already talked about it in this Parliament several times and what I want to say is that we are now meeting groups of migrants who are walking around the mountain cotter on small towns now going to the inhabited places, in the back of the New Vinodolski, Vinodolski Municipality, in the vicinity of Rijeka and what I am interested in. I'm curious, I'll tell you one example, so recently, 7-8 days ago, people witnessed to the media who had a meeting with migrants in their neighborhood it's about New Vinodolski's backdrop they said they were knocking on their doors and how they were persistent and at one point they opened the door and told them the man among other things that you have food, you have water, you have this and the man says you have a cigarette, and he says, "Our man means our Croat says no, I don't smoke," and he says that you didn't smoke last week you had given to our colleagues. So they know where they're going, they know the routes they can move, they know who has cigarettes, who doesn't have cigarettes, where a man lives, where a man doesn't live. Now I'm curious how the institutions of this country can't know where they're going and that they can't prevent it or another question, it's clear to me that someone can cross the border illegally and that they can end up in a certain part of Croatia, it's all happening, and we don't have enough people to stop it at the source, but how can someone go 150, 160 km through the forest so that no one can stop it before? Now it's not just a question of migrants, a question of everyone, I'm interested in what kind of security we need if people go through and move, and the institutions of this country can't control it, and they can't track it? And where we're going, where we can guarantee the safety of our fellow citizens. That's a big problem. Now they started, say, frequent break-ins in the family houses, especially in the area of Gorski Kotar. We're a tourist site, we live off tourism. So, on the one hand, the county, the state and the institutions of this country encourage tourism in our backdrop, on the other hand, we have groups of migrants now walking in places in broad daylight, here in the centre of Fužin are recently seen so they have no longer any fear of the movement of any government or institution. On the other hand, how threatened our tourism and the economic branch that we all live on together. The police, the locals themselves speak well for work in the area when they come in, but the problem is that in the area of the New Vinodolski hinterland, which is a huge area patrolled by a police car because there are not enough of them. So there's not enough of them at the Crikvenica Police Station that's in charge of the Primorsko-Goran Police Department, and that's what the state should be working on. Therefore, it should be increased except for the border itself and the number of MIP employees in those areas that are known as migrant routes when it is already happening. Even though it's again, I'm going to say one more time, it's unclear to me how someone can walk 100 miles through a country to get him, so no one can catch him. What are the institutions doing? Are we safe country or not safe country? Those are questions I'm interested in. So this is a problem that is increasingly escalating, which brings about the uncertainty of our citizens, which threatens their existence and needs to be worked on more. So we can't just write in this strategy that these are some new challenges ahead of us, that we've increased the number of police officers, so we need to act more actively. The second question I want to ask, the same about this topic, so the other day on the City Council of Delnica, this topic was opened, the police chief said that they are doing eyewitnesses and that they list every, every situation of break-in into objects, breaking into these people's houses, and all the material damage they've done because they have information in the police that the government is preparing some kind of fund for the compensation of people who are suffering damage from migrants. I first read it in the New List the other day. Now I'm wondering if any of the representatives of the government can tell me if it's true, whether the government is organizing and setting up some compensation fund, the compensation of these citizens who are experiencing damage from migrants, to me it's a little amazing I have to tell you because what I know is that the system doesn't work or the state could do it, but if it's said by an official authority on the official body of a city council, then I guess the man didn't invent it, but I guess somebody told him that. So I'm wondering if anyone has that information, is it true, and if in that case people can hope for something and can expect any of it? Here, in fact, these are one of the burning topics that I think we're talking about in this segment of national security with all the other important things that are mentioned in this report, is one important topic that affects my end, and that's why I wanted to talk about it one more time here. I appeal to you from the government to step up your efforts at that end, to increase the number of police officers and yes, and to try to solve that problem, because I will return again, therefore, often here in debate now in several other topics mentioned by the former government. I'm going to mention the former government again and the 2015 migrant crisis. I'll just say this in 2015 our citizens haven't met migrants on their doorsteps, they haven't, they haven't. So you convince me, in the paper you couldn't read about migrants wandering Croatian forests, in populated places, breaking into doors and doing damage to Croatian citizens. I don't know a word of the 2015 text about this situation, give it to me, I see you're making a big deal out of it, so let me get this straight. I just remember pictures of this problem being solved and our citizens not meeting it. You fellow Boric will laugh this is our county's problem, you might as well talk about it, because when you start swimming there on Rab Island, then you won't laugh anymore. So this is a serious topic and it needs to be talked about and pointed out and it needs to be solved. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144114	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Zeljko Raguža.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144115	Mr. Vice-President, representatives of ministries, colleagues and fellow MPs, the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy is an opportunity to speak as much as it in its ambitions to realise national objectives through 9 strategic, national interests through 9 strategic objectives and the changes that occurred in the past two years from 2017 to 2019 when it comes to the situation of Croatian minorities or Croats in emigration. I appreciate that, in addition to everything that has been said today about the value of the National Security Strategy, it is important to examine the compliance of the key findings in the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy with the changes that take place in the direct environment of the Republic of Croatia. Although its key parts refer to the Republic of Croatia as natural, it is worth the fact that the National Security Strategy also recognized the position of the Croatian people in BiH, the position of Croatian minorities and Croatian emigrants. When it comes to the Croatian minorities in addition to a series of successes, the efforts made by the state institutions of the Republic of Croatia above all by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Central State Office would be important to note that in addition to the success in protecting the cultural identity of Croatian minorities in European countries, especially in two countries in Serbia-Montenegro where Croats are in minority status, the need to ensure the political representation of Croatian minorities in Serbia was at local, regional or state level in the same status as members of the Serb minority in the Republic. Also political representation in governments and environments where Croats live in Montenegro, but also to the extent that this enables specifically adapted conditions in other countries where Croats are in the status of a national minority. When it comes to Croatian emigration, it would be important to stress first and foremost in the implementation of the missing strategy a more rational, more realistic relationship on the importance of Croatian emigration in the status and perspective of the Croatian nation not only in the Republic of Croatia but also outside the Republic of Croatia. In addition to the efforts made by the Government, the current Government of the Republic of Croatia, in this direction, takes concrete initiatives and laws when it comes to the Law on Foreigners, the Law on Croatian Citizenship or, in particular, in the context of discussions on election law and the needs of amendments to the electoral law, it would be important to note that there is not enough mood in political structures, so here in the Croatian Parliament, that Croatian emigration is valued in a more appropriate way. The third important segment from the position of Croats outside Croatia is BiH and all that praises are valuable, as noted in the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy. There are a number of aspects, political ones above all, but in my view and the lack of a more precise approach and in the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy towards BiH. BiH is not a state with some minor problems in political life. A key process is taking place in BiH that does not want to be seen, which can also be the subject of challenges for the security of the Republic of Croatia, which is the fact that in BiH, God does not give birth, but conditions are being created, so two future states are growing up to inevitably come into conflict. Those who want to see more realistically what is happening in BiH, and this is based on a series of facts that both objectively and infer and infer, that other than the Republika Srpska entity in the second Federation of BiH, processes are also developing, not only the national domination of Bosniaks, but the full takeover of governance with the Federation entity. Many tend to note and conclude that there is an ambition in Republika Srpska to grow up in the state, they are publicly and praised, but a similar process is happening in the area of another entity, so the Federation of BiH where Bosniaks assume all the powers of the state in the Federation of BiH entity and push the Croatian people into the status of a national minority, which is their ultimate ambition. From the point of view of the National Security Strategy, I will also give two examples to illustrate these processes that I am talking about. This is therefore an example of the military dedicated industry as it was known in the area of the former Yugoslavia, 60% present in today's BiH area, right in the majority Bosniak environments. The Bosniak political structures refuse to control the implementation of a military dedicated industry programme from the central state institutions of BiH as the initiatives stem from Republika Srpska's entity. The distribution of manufactured weapons is largely realised through Saudi Arabia in the hotspots of the conflict today in the North of Africa or in the front of Asia. A second position that illustrates the processes that are happening in BiH, therefore, of self-functioning with state competences and ambitions of entities, is the development of reserve police structures in both Republika Srpska and the Federation of BiH. Under the cover of such preparations for the migrant crisis and the development of the crisis in that direction in BiH, thousands of reserve members of the Republika Srpska or the Federation of BiH are engaged where Bosniaks independently pass the agreement with Croatian political representatives are preparing for the development of the BiH Federation of BiH's reserve composition, which would mostly be composed of Bosniaks. So these two positions, therefore, the military dedicated industry that is developing in the Bosniak part of the BiH Federation and the reserve composition of the MUP in both entities, illustrates for those who want to see realistically what is happening in BiH, the development of two state structures that are inevitably slipping into conflict, and the Croatian people are rather unprotected because of their position. Therefore, the findings of the unnecessary militarisation of the Republic of Croatia do not have an objective standstill and that it is important and commendable to develop in the Republic of Croatia a system of deterrence by moving the Croatian army from Ploč over Sinj to Vukovar. In this direction should continue and this will contribute to the security of the Republic of Croatia but also to regional stability, above all I think of BiH's other parts of the environment today's Republic of Croatia. Finally, praises the document's valuable report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy should continue in this direction to question these new circumstances that I spoke of in one part, and it is valuable from the perspective of Croats outside Croatia that the National Security Strategy in all key segments has affected the political position of the Croatian people in BiH, the necessity of changing its political position, gave added importance to the position of Croatian minorities in European countries and Croatian emigration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144116	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144117	In your debate, therefore, you also touched the rights of national minorities outside Croatia, including the rights of Montenegro's national minority. Today, according to the census, more than 7,000 inhabitants live in Montenegro, however, Croats have made a huge mark in their history. A few months ago, in fact, the brothers of the Bokele Navy who operates in Croatia were prevented from taking part in the pass during the holidays of St. Duje in Split because there came a complaint from another organisation which therefore wants to prescribe the Bokele Navy tradition so that Montenegro, in fact, is away from the historic settlement of the Croats in Montenegro. I would therefore like to hear your opinion on which direction this issue should be addressed, or since the Boskelean Navy should therefore apply to material, immaterial heritage according to UNESCO and it would be a shame if the Croats were actually this.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144118	The answer of the esteemed representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144119	Croatians in the Republic of Serbia and Croats in Montenegro are unfortunately also exposed to the assimilation ambitions of the majority peoples, Serbs and Montenegrins, whether it is an incentive to develop a Bosniak nation in Serbia, whether it is about the ambitions of denying Croatian culture in the territory of Montenegro. In this direction, the Republic of Croatia has taken a number of steps, especially when it comes to the protection of the cultural heritage of the Boklena Navy or Croats in Montenegro, but I appreciate that in diplomatic efforts through the work and cooperation of mixed government commissions, these issues should be opened in a more appropriate manner and more strongly occupied for the position and preservation of the Croatian national minority in Montenegro and opposed to the assimilation ambitions of the majority peoples.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144120	The next is a replica of the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144121	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Raguž, Croatia's strategy towards evicted Croats and Croats in BiH is much later. Politically speaking, we talk about it all the time, but we don't really do anything. We know how many Croats were expelled from BiH, especially from Bosnia's Posavina where we brought back 5,000 Croats. It's a strategy, and we don't have it, we didn't build houses, we didn't help them, we didn't do anything special today. That's the biggest problem. Another thing we have here is the mention of refugees and these migrants, why didn't we put a wire between the Republic of Serbia and even BiH? We were asked by Hungary, Slovenia which are members of the EU, I wonder if this is also a strategy to let them pass. We talk a lot here in the assembly, and in fact we don't, if we want to have Croats in BiH strategically we have to help Croats first in Bosnia and Herzegovina.../The speakers speak at the same time./... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144122	The answer of the esteemed representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144123	Croatian political representatives in BiH because of the Dayton structure of BiH and the inability to decide independently, such as Serbs in Republika Srpska and Bosniaks in the majority government in Sarajevo, in a good part could not even affect the processes that you speak of fellow Misic, unfortunately this is the case, and as far as RS is concerned today, we are witnessing the findings of fellow MPs and advocates that by defending resistance which is natural, logically about any violence, political violence against the Croatian people in BiH. It is this kind of political violence that has made it impossible for the Croats to return and take care of themselves and their position in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144124	The next individual debate will be that respected representative, God Ljubic. And I'm sorry for one replica I skipped, the esteemed representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144125	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Raguž, you have made one determined synthesis, and in fact this replica should be as much as your debate, because we can cover everything in your individual debate. However, one of the 4 static goals of this National Security Strategy is the concern for Croats in BiH and Croatians in the diaspora for Croats as a national minority. What we're forgetting, you're talking about reciprocity, there's a Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities in HS, and it says that national minorities can have between 5 and 8 MPs in HS. Those in our House have eight MPs. That's not... but also respect for national minorities who will not admit it, unlike other countries, as you said in Montenegro, may be a better situation, but in Serbia there is a particularly difficult situation and here we have the biggest problem with the representation of the Croatian people in the National Assembly of Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144126	The answer of the esteemed representative Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144127	So just as the Republic of Croatia has shown the breadth in respecting the right of the political position of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, this example of the Republic of Croatia, with its positive example, should be taken up for the same status of the Croatian national minority in Serbia, Montenegro and all other countries where assumptions exist. But what is important to stress is that, apart from Croatian diplomacy, we in HS should have a consensus on this issue. Unfortunately, we are witnessing that this is currently being politicised in different ways, and this is not a good assumption that Croatian diplomacy would have a stronger momentum to address the issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144128	The individual debate will now be held by a respected representative, Bozo Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow representatives, representatives of the government. We have before us a report on the implementation of a national security strategy which in one comprehensive, continuous, system and modern way therefore defines and concerns about the interests of Croats and the Republic of Croatia. Since we are at an electoral base as our position in the Parliament, of course, I will primarily focus on the strategic objective 9, which is to preserve the constitutionality of the Croatian people in BiH and support Croatia's minorities and Croats in the diaspora. So here I will refer in particular to a paragraph in the very strategy that speaks, in fact, to the constitutional position of the Croats in BiH, so that they will pay particular attention to the implementation of existing international agreements, the conclusion of new ones, and all in order to remain and survive the Croatian people in BiH as an independent indigenous entity. I remind my colleagues and fellow MPs once again from this pay phone that the violation of the Washington and Dayton Peace Accords, whose member of the Republic of Croatia, has repeatedly been disabled in the last 20 years, has been impossible for Croats to choose their legitimate national representatives, even by institutions guaranteed by the Constitution for legitimate representation, and the consequences of his counterpart Raguž in his debate because, therefore, BiH structured on two entities is increasingly slipping towards the creation of two para-states, one of the Serbian and the other under Bosniak domination. I therefore welcome the view of the Republic of Croatia that the preservation of the full constitutional constitutional constitutional consistency and equality and legitimate representation at all administrative and political levels is not only a stock of functionality and sustainability of BiH, but also of strategic Croatian state and national interests. I repeat, also the push, so Croatian governments, Croatian prime ministers, Croatian presidents, foreign ministers and diplomacy, to... in the international community, that stability and achievement of this objective are not really enough just socio-economic reforms which are therefore proposed by these individual international clubs, but therefore one political reform that will harmonize the rights of 3 constitutive peoples in a symmetric, uniform manner in accordance with the constitutional principles of Dayton and with the EU Parliament Resolution, I quote, based on the principles of federalism, subsidiarity and legitimate representation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The colleagues and colleagues, therefore, are not only interested in the Croatian people in BiH, but it is also an interest for the Republic of Croatia to have a friendly and stable state at the border of over 1,000 km. And what does it mean to deny the electoral legitimacy of the Croatian people in BiH? illustrating the 3 only decisions the BiH presidency has made this time for the 3rd time without a Croatian representative has made in the last 8 months. All these decisions are against Croats or against the Republic of Croatia. First, the first refers, therefore, to the UN Secretary-General's note, to the adoption of the State Property Act in HS. The second is the replacement of all Croatian ambassadors and general consuls and the appointment of the places of the Croatian quota of persons half of whom are not declared to the Croats at all. And the third refers therefore to the note of the Republic of Croatia because of the alleged activities of SOA towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and in fact it is... the elements of radical Islamists acting in the field of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now let me ask the built-in Republic here. Would that be possible if in the BiH presidency there were legitimate representatives of Croats. I'm sure you don't. The second issue of national security that I have far broader than the state, therefore, security and concern the migrant crisis that is being rejected so-called. A western Balkan route, and a Serbian politician called this route a mosque route. Why? Because migrants are mostly followed by majority Islamic areas, Muslim areas, from Macedonia, Kosovo, Sandzak and BiH. I don't know if everyone in Croatia is aware of the challenges and risks this crisis has for BiH's stability, the situation of Croats in BiH and the Republic of Croatia as a country of first entry into the EU. Tens of thousands of migrants are moving towards Croatia, and the current government in BiH neither wants nor can they deal with this problem and most of the solution is seen in their entry into the Republic of Croatia. But those who stay in BiH, too, are turning on the back of the remaining Croats, which may unfortunately be the trigger of a new eviction. Yesterday, a letter came to the address of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, a petition of over 5 hundred signatures by Croats, local communities, Zavalje, Jump, Žegar, Vedro Polje, against the decision of the government of Bihac and the Ministry of Security against the construction of a camp for 5,000 migrants in Vučjak, the local community of Zavalja. It's about local communities where most Croats live. Although they fall under BiH's state jurisdiction, part of them even belongs to the Gospić-Senj diocese and these local communities. These people, during the war, their houses were destroyed, they were escaped or expelled, they returned, they restored their houses and they sought to live in the region of Bihaća. Interestingly, the mayor of Bihaća Šuhret Fazlic explained the construction of this migrant settlement, the centre of the Vučjak settlement. Chief Fazlic explains that this location is on its way to the border with Croatia, which is known to migrants because it is located directly on the route they have been passing for more than a year towards Croatia and that it is near the connection to the local waterway. However, I recall from this letter that this local water line is precisely the kind of returnees the Croats made themselves, and the town of Bihac never wanted to legalise the pipeline, nor to reconstruct it, nor to include it in public service. With this not a surprise, BiH Notoral Security Minister Dragan Mektic agreed, however, it was possible and the vote of the Croats from Bihac is not heard because the Croats do not have their legitimate representative in the town council of Bihac or in the county assembly of the UN-San County. And what does the Republic of Croatia know about this problem? Nothing. For the media in Croatia, the main national state problem is the relationship between Vladimira Palfi and Ivan Pernar for the past two weeks and before that, some sms affair. It's no surprise to me. Half a year ago, we discussed here the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the position of the Croatian people in BiH. In the mainstream media of the Republic of Croatia, almost no words except for the transfer of negative reactions to Croats of unrestrained circles from BiH. And even on HRT, it wasn't a topic for the day or for the Open. We recently discussed here a week ago about the Central State Office Report for Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, also nothing in the media. Look, we can't actually implement the National Security Strategy until the end if we haven't made it known to the citizens. On the other hand, a certain type of hybrid war is being waged in BiH, especially against Croatia and against Croats in BiH. Croatians are trying to diphrase or Stigmatize for the alleged to say pro-Russian influence supporters, although it is known that the only Croats in BiH are, in fact, committed to Euro-Atlantic integration without a reserve, and all in order for the Croatian position in BiH to weaken in the negotiating position before... the law, the Constitution, etc. and to make Croatia as far away from the Republic of Croatia as possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? Because geostrategic and geopolitical interests of forces that are not in the interest of BiH's entry into the EU or NATO. Of course, that's reflected in other fields. For example. Transport infrastructure has been systematically obstructed for years by the construction of corridor 5C which is a pan-European corridor of interest for Croatia because it connects the east and south of Croatia, of interest for Croatians in Croatia because it connects Posavina with Hercegovina and on the other hand it favors the construction of the highway on the route of Banjaluka-Belgrad, which we have nothing against. Lately, an intensive talk has been made about building a Belgrade highway, Sarajevo-Belgrade, which would also co-finance Turkey provided it passes through the majority Muslim areas of Sandzak. And what's the problem? No one asks that, and when the loans are taken, we'll all have to pay them back. Of course, much more could be said but I welcome this report and this Strategy, which, as I said at the beginning of a systematic, modern and comprehensive manner, treats the issue of national security and, in particular, I am pleased to welcome that Croats in BiH are treated, or the political subjectivity of Croats in BiH as a strategic national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144130	Thank you. We have some replicas. He is the first respected representative of Željko Raguž.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144131	You told your colleague Ljubic that the current meeting of the presidency made three decisions and all three were against the Republic of Croatia. So unfortunately there have been several election cycles in the past when Bosniaks chose Zeljko Komsic or Jozo Križanovic but it is amazing and I ask you to explain how in the Croatian Parliament there are representatives who look forward to the Croatians choosing political representatives to be able to do harm to such fake Croatian representatives and such colleagues sitting in the Assembly today speak one similar way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144132	The answer of the respected representative, God Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144133	Yes, counterpart Raguž, however, it is precisely the Croats who have been brought into this position, so by violating the Dayton and Washington Peace Accords that representatives of the Republic of Croatia who today welcome the election of Željko Komsic did not react when they had to, and that is, in the first place, to the mandate of Stjepan Mesic in Pantovac and the mandate of the Government of January 3rd seem to me here in Zagreb, which is actually the time when amendments were adopted, to impose an amendment actually on the constitution of entities that eroded the Croatian constitutional position in BiH, Croatia was then able to react but not. Fortunately today, we have both the government and the Prime Minister and the president who are aware, as I said of the strategic state and national interest, the preservation of the political subjectivity of Croats in BiH and even more than having competences and international credibility to put the issue on the agenda of international institutions still being decided in BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144134	Thank you. The next replica is Irena Petrijevcanin-Vuxanovic's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144135	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Ljubic, you have presented a very important fact, which is that individuals and organised groups in Republika Srpska are actually making a big problem in the sense that they support the transportation of migrants to the Croatian border where they are then transferred and these are the same groups of criminal ones that were dealing with arms smuggling in the early 1990s, etc. What is important and what you have mentioned is the hybrid war, so today the whole power of energy has been exerted, yes and the power of energy is being spent to distort the image of what is happening at the Croatian borders, and then from isolated incidents that are truly individual and can happen, it is made of a fly elephant and it is a matter of exception and it is bad for the credibility of all of us and it is far from true because when the Prime Minister was Milanovic, therefore not once nor at the top of 2015, has been praised for the organisation of borders and what is happening and, unlike him, this government has already received more praise and congratulations for organising the situation at the border.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144136	Thank you. Answer, the respected representative of Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144137	Thank you. So colleagues absurdly and defeatably that in fact local authorities in Bihac supported by the notorious security minister in Sarajevo are actually hosting this, this future refugee, migrant centre, first of all in the majority Croatian area where the Croats returned, made a water line, etc. And they explain that there's a water supply nearby. On the other hand, it is defeating that the accommodation of the migrant centre is actually on the route towards the Republic of Croatia, in this way they point to which direction they should go and, in fact, Croatia should work within both the EU and NATO security systems to actually get a mandate to actually address this problem on behalf of these institutions or to be the leader of this solution problem because it certainly cannot be solved at the Bosnian-Herzegovina-Croatian border, it must be resolved beyond the borders of BiH, BiH has no institutional capacity to deal with and there is no will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144138	Thank you. The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Maria Alfirev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, esteemed officials and colleagues and colleagues. So here is the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, and right here in itself, at the very beginning I would mention some of the things that are in the strategy because looking at it and reading the basic document, means a basic strategy for it can really be said that it is really a series of nice desires and nice sentences and it would be worth mentioning some of them because I'm going to talk about them a little bit later, but they are actually very important. So above all, when we talk about national identity, it is said that Croatian national identity is based on constitutional values that promote freedoms, rights and equality and a favourable social climate that includes tolerance, equality against law, equality of opportunities for personal achievement, protection of human dignity, general and minority rights, respect for similarity and diversity, protection of vulnerable groups and excludes all forms of discrimination. Similarly, there is another sentence in the second place, the Republic of Croatia will include comprehensive approach to prevent and combat radicalism, extremism, including education for democracy, not violence, human rights and minority rights, and a culture of peace, will create a climate of zero tolerance towards violence, especially hate crime, violent behaviour among the school population and youth, and abuse of sports and other manifestations to demonstrate radicalism and extremism and hooligan behaviour. So no one can say that what is in the Strategy that this is not good, however, it is indeed, these are the most values that we want to stick to and what we want Croatia to be and that Croatia really respects it. But from this report that is before us, can we say that it is true? Maybe it's true, maybe it's not true. We in this report are really hard to conclude, and we don't know if that's the case. Is Croatia, is this what we do, do we stick to those values from this report when we speak? What we know is that if we accept the Report as such then we will accept what is written and these are the numbered administrative measures, these are the listed laws, these are some of the activities that are certainly meant to achieve or achieve these values. But is that really how it is? Is that true? And if it's really done and if these measures have achieved that goal, we don't know that, it doesn't really say that in the report. In addition to this report, there is no real analysis, there are no outcomes, there are no results, there are no effects of what is written if, for example, I will say everything that is listed in terms of demographic renewal or the goal of strengthening the most intelligent policy. All this stuff that's listed in front of the Ministry of Demography, all the laws, all the regulations that have been passed, did they bear fruit in the past? Has there been an increase in birth compared to an earlier period? Is it, on the other hand, that, has the emigration of people from Croatia been reduced in the past? Shall we say that in that case what has been done, what has been done, all of these measures have achieved the goal that the strategy wants and which they write in the strategy. It really does not exist, so it is very, very difficult to talk about the report and everything the strategy wants if there is no other one. I think some colleagues or colleagues have also said that the analysis is not necessary because we have enough results. But we don't know, so just passing the law isn't enough. This is the outcome, if we plotted to pass one law or amendment and supplement it is not enough. So we have to have the effects of that law itself, and that's what it doesn't have. In order to see how the real situation is, perhaps not really, we can agree with some of the observations of some other institutions, but other than this report, it is also worth looking at the attorney general's report, which is precisely when we speak, when the strategy is talking about a zero rate, a zero rate of violence or discrimination, it is just saying that other than poverty and discrimination towards nationality, age, property status has also been recorded and citizens' mistrust towards institutions, and the problem of emigration has continued. She didn't say it might be the biggest problem, but the biggest challenge of 2000 is exactly 18 years and it will continue. So that's what's certainly missing in this report. Why? Because it would be good to see in it, not only this numbered but said where we are now and what should be done in the next period in order to get exactly everything, everything you are, everything you've brought, everything we've plotted and realized. A little more discrimination. The attorney general says that many still face discrimination on the basis of their national membership, age, property, especially in the fields of labour, employment and access to goods, and polarising and discriminatory speech, as well as hate speech that strongly marks public discourse. And it is particularly worrying when it is used by public figures and politicians who should, instead, build a society based on tolerance and respect for diversity. That's what we need to build, but that question is whether or not. We of Prime Minister Plenkovic himself, when it comes to violence, do not get a clear and convincing performance and that is what is missing. When we listen to Minister Murganic, who is just in charge of this area, then even in a statement of violence, we do not have a clear and secure appearance that will say I condemn that and that violence. So even now that there was violence on Brač, it was also not very clear that it condemned this violence but even said, although it would say again they pulled it out of context, but it was said that emphasising diversity leads to even stronger discrimination. Well, my people, well, it's right in the strategy that respecting similarity and diversity rules out in some way all forms of discrimination. So we must respect the diversity of every citizen regardless of the difference because the diversity is the wealth of this society and it would have to be the wealth of Croatia. So it really matters when people in government speak and speak, and what effect this has on young people in particular in Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144140	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144141	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Alfirev, I don't know what would be strong enough for you, and how do you expect Prime Minister Plenkovic, Minister Murganic, to condemn such events and what we have witnessed happened. In fact, even today at the government's session except for what he immediately reacted and immediately condemned, and today at the government's session we have headlines saying, violence is inadmissible, and then it stands exactly what he said, we are witnessing hooligan violence, and we believe that it is unacceptable, in the name of the government, condemning all such behaviour, we must do even more in a preventive but repressive action against such phenomena that unacceptable, primitive and savage outbursts are really harshly sanctioned. What do you mean stronger and stronger? Is it stronger and stronger when the government's session begins again with the condemnation of such attacks?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144142	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144143	Is there stronger and stronger if certain things are repeated, if the public, if the public is affected much earlier or if all other institutions react much earlier, and in fact we do not have the condemnation of those who had to react first. That's what's missing. We do not have the speedy and clear enough, clear condemnation of all this violence that is happening. If it were different then the climate of society would certainly be different.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144144	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lonachar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144145	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maria, as far as I know, never again when it comes to demographic reconstruction in Croatia, has been worried about what just last year, I can say two. And the indicators for this are the construction of a large number of kindergartens, schools in one shift, work, classes in one shift and daily schools in kindergartens and... in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm a witness to such events right now from where I come from where you have very much built kindergartens and work schools in one shift. So please, when it comes to demographic restoration, that, once again, it's never been before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144146	The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144147	Well, a respected colleague certainly exists, so what has been done has been done safely and well. So no, it's not all black or white. But what's done, what's built and more kindergartens, what's done in this respect, especially in the areas you're talking about, doesn't mean that there's no more emigration. In this past period, especially the one this report speaks of is far more eviction than ever before. And equally, kindergartens may have been built where there isn't a single child around. There is or is encouraged to build or introduce some measures and the question is whether there will be children or whether there will be young families because it is not just enough. It takes something else to stop the eviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144148	Thank you. The next individual debate will be her respected representative, Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144149	Respect for the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm going to pick up where I actually stopped earlier and it was a matter of trust in the institutions, one of the important things that we have is a matter of the institution's trust, so maybe they'll just lean on the follow-up to this debate. It's a question of whether it's enough to condemn and what the quality of that conviction is. Because when you look at the situation that we had the court's decision that it had to be 150 meters away from fireman Tom tomorrow under public pressure, or all the expensive decision on detention. The case that happened before that where the innocent guy here from Zagreb was concerned with the first measure was also that they were released and then they were held in custody for a month. Therefore, the issue of trust which is a very important item, one of the 9 points that we are talking about, should be an integral part of both our actions and the really building of institutions that are then made up of the National Security Strategy. When you look at the question of Alojz Tomasevic, a gentleman who, a member of the government, will explain that this is the case in marriage or when you take Vedran Neferovic, for example, who threatened to die to a journalist who instead of running for mayor, remains only the mayor. Josu Mraovic, a well-known handler who explained this rape in a very positive way, but he was happy to see a guest about the gatherings. When you look at Maria Pesut, you're legally convicted of domestic violence and you need to take care of the welfare of those people. Or to list Mr. Culej, who unfortunately is not here today, Chefulic, Filic Nenada, and that I don't list any further, means all those who really got such a conviction that they didn't feel it in any way from the party telling us that he strongly condemns violence, that he strongly condemns attacks, that very harshly, a man would be afraid of it, he would think that... It's a matter of time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I know is that the conviction is absolutely declarative, coerced because otherwise things wouldn't have happened that way. It is not the same when someone in the Parliament says it, when politicians say and whoever has a repressive system, who manages it, who runs it among other things and is responsible for the legal security of citizens and I would like to remind you that the Croatian Parliament has finally reached a conclusion, which is that they will discuss the statutes. So the outdated thing that's the usual thing, it's about this power that's become the usual thing to save all those who have seriously damaged both this society and the community and where they're best seen in how they're actually convicted. They're convicted so we can't trust the institutions, they'll finally talk to the Justice Committee about how many they actually got out and disabling the work and the police and the crime police and the State's Attorney's office and all those involved, and then we'll see what trust is in the institution. I also have to say that when you look at all these answers and our debates here we managed to demographically restore only Ireland. I see this is the situation where it became our largest island, definitely, where there's a variant that the atmosphere in which all of this together is not good. It's something that I think is important that we talk about because when you listen to stories or the lies that were produced here, then of course you're always able to answer there. There was a man sitting here earlier in a civilian you didn't recognize, a General of the Croatian Army who was involved in Gunja, in that crisis. Here's the doctor who was on the team who was saving the boss of the station at the time who died in that same Gunja, and you laughed at it. These are the witnesses of these events when we talk about national security, who is trying in some way, not the bus to the chest about it. Because it was supposed to be in Gunya in 17.5, and it was, by the same laws that existed then, that exist today and that have not changed. The responsibility hasn't changed a bit, it's just that the authorities of the state have been abolished, moved to the Ministry of the Interior, and that's the only thing that's actually changed here, nothing else. And what I have to say is that when you intervene and try to save people, then don't underestimate it, let's not play by who's better, whose fire goes faster, 20 km passes in one day and then reaches the suburbs of Split. Shall we play here? Or around the Crikvenica so it's shut down I have no idea at 4:00 or 5:00. It's not trust in institutions. That way you don't need to talk to me, that's not good. I will tell you that a matter of trust in the institutions just now also see in the situation that my representative quotes an answer to my representative's question which the documents here stand or on the pages of the Croatian Parliament write irresponsiblely, I got that answer I didn't, he quotes it to me and tells me what's in the answer. It's a question of trust in the institution. Both the Croatian Parliament and the question of the parliamentary question asked on 16.4.2019, I have no answer, but therefore the representative from HDZ knows it. I will also say earlier those sentences that were about advocacy, that parliamentary representatives should be courting the victims and that is the truth, victims and citizens expect what is written in the National Security Strategy to do so. It says that their safety will be guaranteed, that everyone will be treated equally with this and also with fireman Toma and with Varazdinka, who defended the people who were attacked with the body, the same taxi drivers who took part in the rescue, the blind young man from Vinkovci Hrvat who was beaten also in a flock of groups, and you know whose. So I think it's time we talked about what actually means a real, real fight for the safety of our citizens. And I'm going to go back to what you always say to the variant of trust in institutions again. So, Mr. Vrbanovic's sentence was lifted. No one has criticised HDZ, the justice minister and this judiciary as one parliamentary representative yesterday, estimating my statement as primitive. In doing so, making fun of the fact that this government manages to get to the point that even a violation goes into obscenity, a violation. Not a crime, but a crime because someone was unable to bring Mr. Vrbanovic to trial, the Criminal Court. If it were someone else, it certainly wouldn't have happened. And at the end of this debate, I'm still going to mention it, I'm going to do it one more time. The issue of our divisions that we have here regularly should be appreciated, to defend each victim, so I am wrong that every time we return the story that I avoided yesterday about partisans and Ustashas, but it is bad when we are in a situation to promote and defend one, and we are not able to respect our own declarations that exist in this Croatian Assembly. In this Croatian Assembly it was passed, I will not read them to you they would probably not believe that this really true text was adopted on the 60th anniversary of victory over fascism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144150	Thank you very much. Here's how it can go in width, and I haven't warned you about it either, nor has anyone raised this one, and I wouldn't justify it then if it were a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you were talking about everything and everything including the anti-fascism declarations, but good. Uh, no, I'm not just saying that we should always look at each other equally. I look the same on all sides, and I judge the same. Uh, we have two replicas. The first is Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasnović's respected MPs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144151	Thank you very much, Vice President. The esteemed colleague Ostojić had no disrespect when we talked about Gunja. We were just talking about how mistakes could be learned and that if coordination wasn't good, it could be better. So no disrespect at all. What you did in your term was good, what you didn't. So these are facts. And regarding the preparations for the Schengen during the entire term of the government of Mr Milanovic, it was successful, you well know, just to hand over the so-called. a statement of readiness to carry out the evaluation process of the Republic of Croatia only in 2015, which is the last year of the term of office of Mr Milanovic, i.e. the Government, and two years after Croatia is a full member of the EU. And the evaluation process itself was only opened in 2016 when the second government was already in place, today there were 270 recommendations for 8 areas, so there is only 1 area left, which will say that it has already begun to produce that final report on the Schengen for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144152	The answer of the respected representative Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144153	So the truth is next, and that's when it was found within hours that the incapacitated county headquarters was run, the state headquarters took over, and that's settled. As far as Schengen is concerned, I'm sorry you don't know the meaning of the facts, two years from the time of accession you have the right to apply for Schengen, the government of Zoran Milanovic contracted 91% of the funds during its operation, after which it was further resolved 6.3. All the equipment you have today on the Croatian border was bought at the time and arranged at the time of Zoran Milanović. Therefore, it could not be formally under European law to do anything before that date, and the evaluation process itself began in 9 months 2015, I guess I know so well because I was a minister then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144154	The next replica of the respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144155	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Ostojić, if we had only listened to the report we were presented and listened to here are HDZ MPs, then we would say that this report is actually a great, phenomenal state and that there are no problems in Croatia. However, thanks to what we've been saying so far, what opposition advocates have been saying, we've also gotten a different picture and we know that there are and there are discrimination and there are problems and there's a lot more to work on. What is important in the conclusion is that the strategy is important, based on the model of human safety, individual security. I'd say it's important for us to talk about what the media is saying and to protect the journalists themselves. Here, let's say that instead of looking into Gurjica Klancir, the police must actually protect the press.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144156	Thank you. The answer of a respected representative, no answer, thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144157	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here's something I want to say about the strategy, about the National Security Strategy implementation report, because today we had an interesting debate especially on our other side, and we heard that when that other side led this country that we were all almost thinking about, security was at the highest level, everyone was doing well, the system was working well, there was no division, there was no violence, the maltene was all perfect, and the first remark was that we were discussing it here with a delay for almost a year on some document because it was written in chapter V and that no one had noticed it until now until the former police minister noticed it. And of course what answer to that? I remember, I was the parliamentary representative of the opposition, we didn't discuss a single report on the implementation of the national strategy, national security. And why didn't we? And because she wasn't here? I think what we're going to talk about now is fairy tales like this and things like that, we haven't talked about anything, national security was one of the Home Secretary's guesses, and the other one was the Secretary of Defense, and here and there the prime minister would show up, probably they co-ordinated, and that was national security. Today, after we've discussed the previous point and all we're saying now is clearly that the system is set up. We can be sure who's better, smarter, who knows more or doesn't know more, but the fact is that the system exists. Anyone who speaks differently doesn't speak the truth by me but has the right to his political or any other opinion. Convince everyone that he was a super minister with certain cases that are known to the public and still call some and colleagues here from my party, I don't know about family violence and to skip some of my own party by me is, the same isn't somehow a different view or not to say a different word than hypocrisy. Because if the police minister can't find an answer to his question on the agenda, the question is what kind of Home Secretary you were, and it's part of some kind of security and defense that we know how to handle and find some information. And even when you add that someone's statement is the value of a two-layer toilet paper when you solve the situation with violence, then that's what we've been through in those four years, politics, us or them, for four years we've been listening on one side and on the other, all of us or them. And we know what it looked like, we know. And twice it's been defeated in the election and it's a good thing it's been defeated. Because talking about this report in this way for me is hypocritical when you see what's inside and what's been done in 2018. If we brought a national strategy or a national security strategy in the 7th month 2017, we could discuss it in 2018, several months. So I think it's normal that we've covered it since the adoption of the Strategy until the end of 2018. And they're described all over the area. We did when they ran the Strategy, i.e. We had nothing to discuss security, so they were never here, as far as I remember. I think I saw the Secretary of Defense once that he was here in the Parliament. What was going on? And they said they were great, they were doing all the right things and everything would be nice. We're in debt to 70, 80 billion kuna. What have they solved? Nothing. And today we have to listen to how great it was and how a system that meets daytime challenges that are very different than they were a few years ago and in a political sense, but in every other sense, it fits. Let's think of a way or a fight against fire two years ago and today. Let's remember the fight against the flood two years ago and today. And to determine that the system is wrong, it can only be someone who is hypocritical. Or to find out that today the migrants were passing through the Republic of Croatia when they were all super-functioning. Six hundred thousand got in, they say we're not going to take a print so you don't have to be afraid. A train, straight to Hungary, stopped him there for a few weeks. So what do my people think about, then do you think that we are forgetting? Maybe there are some who forget. I can't forget these things that someone would convince me that we lived in a better organised system then than today and that individual cases of violence that everyone condemns that for what kind of statement we're going to make we have to ask the SDP if that's good, what we've said, is that effective enough. 'Cause when they say "no" they all stop, everybody. Or I don't know, death of fascism, no one's gone, no violence on the streets. What are we talking about, my dear people? Gentlemen, the times are challenging, challenging, and they are safe to deal with in this time and a few years ago it is not the same, and former ministers must know it, they must. Because what we have today, here come thousands of tourists, ask a tourist, I have a chance to ask them, what is most valuable to them in this country when they come to us, security at number one. Ask the German if he is safer when he comes here or in his place in Germany, ask him and you will hear the answer. That we underestimate our own country, our own service, all those who worry that we live freely today or surely to make it sound to someone or to catch a political point, or that it would still be convincing to have a little argument. They're very bad on the other side. And that's why I was surprised by this debate, which is more so than the Committee's head if I'm not mistaken for national security and people who talk so about their country know that someone is listening. If I'm not sure or the board president assures me that we are in such a catastrophic situation, that in this country it's just violence, that everything is bad, that everything is a disaster, that there is no progress anywhere, the question is what should I be thinking? What should an ordinary citizen think? I disagree with that, and that's why I volunteered for this debate because it's for not listening, these attacks that have nothing to do with anything, these attacks on a man who turned relations in the Croatian Army and the attitude towards the Croatian military so that someone might make himself important. Here, I told my general or some former general, and I could say something to the current minister, that he doesn't know anything, that he has no idea, so what kind of policy are these? Because if it's not written here what we've been doing, so clearly it says, I come from a local level, plans, protection from major accidents, a fire protection plan, a mandatory two documents, you have to have them, civil protection headquarters must meet at least once in three months, at least twice in six months, we have to have a surveillance tip service, we have to have a monitoring system especially in the summer months, we have to do everything the state has told us, the fire inspector comes in, you haven't placed enough or you haven't given as much as it takes, we write, there's a penalty. Everything we've been forced to do, local self-governments have to do, it's obvious that there's a system, a civil protection system quite different than a few years ago, a fire department raised to the highest level, so we're looking for help from other countries to help them, and we're saying that nothing's wrong today, that we've done nothing wrong and that we've done some little systematicization there, so that's undoing the efforts of thousands and thousands of volunteers, people who help someone every day, especially DVDs, especially them, and where are all the others? And in this way, when the president of the National Security Committee speaks of a state in his own country in this way, I, as a parliamentary representative, was an opposition or most, it is unacceptable, unacceptable to me, we do not believe in our own country, we mock the authorities, and we know that we have done nothing and we still ask why we are late with the report, and 4g. They were unable to make any of the strategic documents, or defence strategies, or national security. Where are the laws? Nowhere. We've been walking around, not talking about how they've been dealing with certain issues that were mentioned here now and now someone else should be guilty? No, gentlemen, we can talk, but with arguments, we're not going to feel like one or the other because if this strategy isn't good, then we're going to change some things, but we can see that there's finally a system and there's not been a flood again, and not all those places under there have happened what happened to them two years ago. And we see the warning system and we see the reaction system, before it was surprising to us. And the story of migrants is a special story about which it would be possible to tell who did what and what conditions were and what was the goal because it was enough to take you from point A to point B and you are no longer our concern and we have done it successfully and every honor of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144158	He has several replicas, the first respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144159	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I remember that year we were on the road together and we were listening on the radio... That's how it was when refugees came to the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, I must say that both Mr. Ostojić and a large group of people at that time have dealt with these things that have happened to us today, and I don't want to make fun of them, nor do I want to belittle them, it was one painful and difficult job, but at that point we didn't get along, all those we applied for, of course they had to come back to us in part and return to the Republic, then the mention of the train you're talking about happened. So, what do I want to say? These problems we've faced may not be in time to recognize. We then warned Mr. Kotramanovic that no strategy was adopted, however, He made fun of it, too. [[Intruder: Thank you]] He didn't pay attention to it, and that's why things like that happened. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144160	A colleague, Ostojić, has raised the breach of the Rules of Procedure, which point has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144161	Injured Art. 235, and that's not a good number of times replication. Namely, I'm holding back here from replicating, and I should record how many times a colleague along the same agenda point has replicated.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144162	Log in, you can't do it, you can't do it, I'm giving you a warning now because it's pretty much being recorded for everyone. We can't talk about things like that, and that's how we work, right? The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144163	Thank you very much, Vice President. Buddy Babic, that's what happened. So, there was no system being attacked today, and when there was no system then improvisation, they remained surprised then with hundreds of thousands of immigrants at the border with the Republic of Croatia, what could they do? Here, congratulatory minister then, he nicely transferred them all to someone else's cargo and it was systematic, excellent, even by train going through the border and don't stop until they get through, it was fine and if it's a system and if we want it today, I won't defend it, you offer it whenever you want in the campaign or wherever you want. We will fight for this system that works. ... So it suits him because he mentioned that you were the minister who got on the bus, who got on the bus. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] And bid good greetings to all [[Let's please not from the bench...]] So he was the minister who got on the bus, said hello and said you'd be here for three days, we won't take you away. [[/Intruder:...and not each other, please.]] And we'll take you wherever you want. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: Next...]] And that's true. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144164	...the replica of the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144165	Col. Boric, is your sister-in-law at the football stadium before playing the game a matter of national security? Did anyone with this want to send a message about what kind of Croatian bun is? Look, when it came to someone, some officials of the Croatian Football Federation were convicted, what happened today, you don't know who drew the swastika, who made it, everything went out of date and nobody. But today, instead of talking, we have a document, instead of saying what's right and what's wrong with what this is turning into? Two ministers say that in Croatia today, former ministers, a disaster, is a terrible insecure situation. Now that someone is looking outside, so these people have to understand that they are not Ranko, Marko, Vesna, Song or what I know who else but that they were ministers in the Croatian government and their statement is measured quite differently than when an ordinary citizen says it and it is a responsibility to his own state and it is a responsibility to this House of Commons where we sit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144166	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144167	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, when we talk about the swastika in Pomlje, this is the result of solving the swamp, those famous swamps in Croatian football through politics we or they and so it was settled until today until it went out of date. With all the video cameras, with all the opportunities the police have, etc. And of course what do we have today? The story of how we're divided. Us or them? That didn't end well with the election ending. And those who went consciously into such politics knew what they were doing, and they knew exactly what they were doing. And we see today in this debate and this morning and now that there's nothing he won't tell us, there's nothing... But when you get back, you get nervous right away, you don't know right away, you're right back, you have no idea, etc., etc., etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, we are all here together to do good to this country and not to speak in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144168	Thank you. Finally, on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives, a respected representative, Ranko Ostojic, will now speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144169	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. As for national security and its strategy, we can only speak about it the moment it was adopted. Thus, unlike regular practice, the interior minister was the only one in the history of all ministers to submit a report since 2001 when the minister was required to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament. It was me, four times I was here in the Parliament and every time on the board and filed reports on the state of security,... Mr. Shucker, I'm talking. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it's something that's true and an argument that you can't kill by anything and someone at 55 sessions of what committees or here in the Parliament of any law hasn't shown up, we didn't have that strategy at the time. [[Intruder Reiner: Please not from the site.]] Just before my colleague spoke about the Schengen area, etc., so since she is gone then I will ask you to take the materials from the 2017 MVEP which can reasonably confirm what I told you earlier and that is when you can apply for the Schengen who did what, etc. As for migration policy, it existed from 2015 to 2018, after which, and after repeated requests to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia refused to bring migration policy and we no longer have it today. What's also true, the system has remained the same, so it hasn't changed the system and as far as old age and human swastika and its national security are concerned, and so on and so forth, it turns out that this swastika is the only thing that matters. I guess thousands of other fascist tags that are made by the Republic of Croatia are important, but only this one turns out to be important. Anything else I can tell from that story, which is unfortunately, I have to tell you, you have no idea. And you really have no idea because if you knew the law then you would know that the work was not solved, it was not solved even though Minister Bozinovic had promised to be resolved almost a year ago. So when we talk about a misdemeanor, we're talking about an organizer who wasn't able to examine either an empty stadium or a lawn or find out that's where that swastika is. That object goes out of date, it's something that's out of date and not a crime that happened there. All the cops who did that job were promoted, they became. First the chiefs of crime police, then the chief police director, and then the second one who worked in crime in Split also became head of crime in Zagreb. The chief of police and the uniform that should actually protect the outside stadium became chief of police administration. So if you have any questions, ask the police, not the ministers, because the law prohibits them from dealing with police matters. It's another thing that some don't. I'll also say that when it comes to criminal acts then it should be very precise regardless of who's nice... And bring in a person who commits a crime and not talk about someone from a party suggesting it to someone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the annual reports are concerned, they are regularly made. Migrants who entered the Republic of Croatia have all come from the EU, all of them registered unlike the allegations spoken here by Mr. Boris, all of them are in the system, don't let God think of anyone else or think of such information as to give to someone else. They are not in Dublin because all those who were in the Dublin process were returned to Croatia. 3841 was returned to the Republic of Croatia no matter what they came from Schengen and they all took prints. They're all registered, and that's why it's known that there are 682,000 of them. As for the situation as it is today is not really the same, today it's much easier and that tells you numbers. 6000 says the Ministry of the Interior, so compare it to 682,000, and it'll be much simpler for you not to talk about something that's impermeable. Also reasoned you can compare the fire from 2018 and the 2012 fire, see little data if we want to influence, compete. As for persuasion, I really have no intention of convincing you, but the feelings that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have, that's what's most important, and that's what you need to do to make an argument, not a lie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144170	The next will be on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club final. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the HDZ Club didn't mean to speak finally, but after this, we just have to say something. We had for the first time today a report on the implementation of a strategy that was first adopted. It was brought on the basis of what someone was doing until then. And we were supposed to discuss here today what was done under that strategy, but what it turned into, and I am truly sorry for my colleague Ostojić that you have succumbed to doing some kind of reckoning that you have worked with someone else. Instead of saying the strategy was made on something that was up until then. She wears hers every time. And if we discussed it like that, especially all of us who used to be ministers, so I'm putting myself and my colleague Lalovec and I here, and they'll never hear me debate each other like that, then the seriousness of this high house would be at a very different level. However, when you as former interior minister and former police director say that Croatia is an insecure country, believe me, from your speech you can read it from fellow Ostojic, I have listened to your three debates today, then unfortunately it has one quite different weight. When the former foreign minister says Croatia is in worse shape today than it has ever been, it has a certain weight. And if we love this country, no matter what political option we belong to, then we must stay away from this statement. Why? Because those who don't love us will hardly welcome such statements. So do you think colleagues and colleagues that various debates, even some before, yesterday in this assembly, do not lead to certain extremists practically encouraging the crimes that are happening. And that's why we're the ones who have the opportunity to make public appearances and how responsible we are. And how responsible for every word. Why did I mention a sister-in-law to my colleague Boric in the replica? On the trail of what is being transferred, you can't say that this swastika is something like thousands of fascist tags all over Croatia. No, that's when almost the football team was kicked out, so that it happened we wouldn't be looking forward to it in Russia, the other thing was a transmission that looked at dozens of millions of people and the camera was suddenly, no way of thinking from a corner from which only one could see that swastika, focused that swastika and showed it. Because fellow Ostojić, let's not fool ourselves, no one who walked through the stadium could see that swastika, that swastika could be seen exactly from where it was known that a camera would be placed, precisely under so much and so much light, it is precisely visible. Why it wasn't discovered then, I don't know, I'm no expert on it. You're telling us that we don't have a clue, we haven't been involved in the discovery, I guess they just had to find out, they don't have a clue, but I'm never going to say it in the assembly. And I'm sorry, I'm really sorry. Kola Krstičević, General Krstičević really worked really today to give us a series of information, he made an effort in the opening statement to talk about the strategy that was made and we can have different views that certain measures implemented by various ministries might have made a different way and if we discuss it in such a way we will come up with a quality solution. I guess my colleague Majdak here with all of us in HDZ spent his time saying that foreigners can't buy land in Croatia and that Croatia has until July next year, if I'm not wrong to apply for a moratorium, but we are constantly talking about foreigners have the right to buy land. Instead of saying press the minister we're going to the moratorium, we're looking for that moratorium. That's our job. Why? Well, I guess it's our goal and our interest not to sell the Croatian country to strangers. Because this is the agenda point where each of us shows political responsibility. It shows love for the country no matter what political this event is and how it thinks. It shows a view that it thinks that some crisis situations would be resolved, because my colleague Ostojić forgive me for calling you but you spoke for the SDP Club, I don't call you actually but come on like this, do you think that this crisis is migrant at the time when you were in power and today it's the same thing, it can't just be compared. But certain experiences that we have then can be used today, not attacking the apriori that was not right, actually what was doing this was wrong. That way we'll never come to a solution. And so I say I'm sorry that the debate ended the way it is, we had a document to critically talk about things that aren't good and that we think should be different, but unfortunately We discussed ideologically again. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Is this your pen, buddy? [[No, it's black, it's black.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144172	Thank you very much, thank you very much. And I will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144173	The report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion: The report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for and 1 abstention, 23 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the constituency working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144174	So we will move to the next point, which is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No 460 Proposer is the SDP Club based on Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the government delivered an opinion. Does the proposaler's representative want to give an additional explanation? Obviously, because my colleague Bernardic is here at the pay phone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144175	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Perhaps the most important thing about this topic is the final debate of fellow Shucker who essentially expressed his disdain that about one truth that was in the case of a migrant crisis he wants to speak out of the recurse that everything is now great and that simply what was done before is wrong. And it's just something that for years now and through your debate, you're trying to kind of insult and put under the rug. Because whenever there's a problem, you're trying to put those problems under the carpet. And the debate is removed from the public eye. [[Agreement: Let's talk about the subject of my colleague Bernardić.]] As you are now trying to do when the point of the most important thing that bothers Croatian citizens, which is the point of direct their standard of living and wage growth, to hide the truth from the people, to hide the truth from the people because it is another debate that you push into small hours after 19 hours when few people follow it. Therefore, when discussing the standard of living, about the need to increase wages, about pensions, about something directly related to Croatian citizens, you are trying to hide it from the people, and it is a shame, it is a shame, you usurped institutions and usurped, you try to usurp HS, and when it comes to the concrete bill itself, then a few facts should be said. The Republic of Croatia is unfortunately today facing an increase in inequality in society and this gap may have never been greater. The growing number of our fellow citizens who are poor or are at great risk of poverty. The most vulnerable group is definitely unemployed, generally inactive citizens, and a large share unfortunately also have pensioners who are increasingly harder to live than their pensions because pensions in the Republic of Croatia are becoming more and more difficult to live. The risk rate of poverty and social exclusion in 2017 was 26.4%, well above the EU average, which is Croatia's reality, poverty and social exclusion. Over a million people in the Republic of Croatia live in poverty or are at great risk of poverty and social exclusion and when looking at the age of people most exposed to poverty, it is then those who belong to an older age group, above 65, but this is not surprising given that the largest number of pensioners receive pensions below each social minimum or poverty threshold of 2,339,00 kn. Discrimination, corruption, clienttelism and nepotism are the main sources of further growth of inequalities among our citizens and are most affected precisely by groups that are exposed to poverty by further exacerbating their position. It is therefore a responsibility for the ruling to clearly define public policy objectives and priorities in the direction of reducing inequality in society. And it is quite clear that in times of crisis, these differences and tensions are increasing, as well as that in times of growth and greater stability special attention should be paid to increasing living standards and reducing social differences. The growing inequality, it is increasing, is something that threatens the very foundations of the Republic of Croatia. Scientific studies show that growth is lower and recession is more common in countries with greater inequalities. If families have less to spend, this means that traders have fewer customers, at the same time households have bigger loans, citizens have bigger responsibilities, it is Croatian reality. The growing inequality is also bad for families living in the Republic of Croatia and social cohesion because simply under conditions of great inequality people not only trust institutions less, less trust each other, less associate with each other and alienate each other. Thus, growing inequality means growing mistrust. In order to reduce inequalities in society, appropriate material and financial resources are necessary in favour of the most vulnerable layers of society, and there is money for this. Only revenue from the tax for 2019. in the state budget planned, they are at a level greater than 10 billion than it was at the end of 2015. and when exactly income and expenditure figures are compared, then it is clear that there is enough space for tax evasion, for increased wages, for increased pensions, for social benefits with the aim of reducing inequality and poverty in our society because the overall growth of salaries in the Republic of Croatia is still in an area that cannot be satisfactory in view of EU countries, which unfortunately migrate and leave many of our people on a daily basis. For example, the net salary in Denmark is as much as 4 times higher than in Croatia, in Ireland over 3 times higher, in Germany almost 3 times higher, and at the same time the last available data for 2018 say that half of the people in the Republic, half the employees of the Republic of Croatia, half of the population of 1600,000 work for a salary of less than € 5.400,00, employees and workers in the Republic of Croatia are working for less than the average salary, and about 200,000 people working or working part-time receive less than € 3.000,00 net, so 200 000 people in our country receive a salary of less than 3.000,00 net, it's worrying, it's scandalous. The SDP believes that the HDZ government does not run a salary policy that would strengthen the position of lower-income citizens and those who represent the just threatened middle class. On the contrary, the government's policy so far, particularly in terms of tax discharge and other incentives, is primarily addressed to large capital, and to the highest number of workers in the Republic of Croatia. I'll remind you, the ruling man has increased his salary by 18,000 of the country's richest, in principle take it from the poor to give it to the rich. The rulings reduced VAT to a part of food that is extremely subject to import, these are fruits, vegetables, pork, beef, so they helped to the greatest extent precisely import lobbys, trade chains because food as you know did not cheap. The ruling and raised VAT, and then other charges on the tourism sector, specifically hit more than 100,000 small tenants, questioning the survival of many families that thus cover their thin home budgets. That is why we in the SDP are offering citizens a clear alternative to wage policy. We have already presented ideas to increase salaries for more than 700,000 of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens, including teachers, teachers, health professionals, informers, engineers, all those at risk of migration pressures. The model is based on an increase in personal deduction from the current 3800 to 5000 kn, which would increase wages between 330 and 500 kn per month. So immediately at the beginning of next month. The total cost of this measure moves at 2 billion kuna level, and in order not to burden, first of all, local budgets, and this is something we are discussing today, we propose to leave the total income tax, so an additional 17% to local self-government units, municipalities and cities, and funds for fiscal balancing secured through other tax revenues of the state budget. What does that mean, first of all, for employees? Consider the example of a young master of electrical engineering, pharmaceuticals, history, or any other profession, who is employed in his first job and today receives a salary of 4670 kn. He pays taxes and a $330 cut. With this proposal, the salary would be 5000 kn, or 330 kn more per month. If we take a lady who works as a shopkeeper in one of the numerous shops in Croatia and receives a salary of 4670 kn, and her husband is employed and has already used tax relief on his tax card for their child, this woman also pays a tax of 330 kn. And with this bill of wages, she would grow precisely by 330 kn per month. If we take a teacher who has reported one child on her tax card as a tax relief and receives a salary of 6165 kn, after this change, her salary will grow to 6400 kn. All other employees with income of 7, 10, 12 thousand kn or more will have a secure salary growth of 330 kn because their personal deduction increases from 3800 to 5, or from 5550 to 6750, if they have one child or one dependent family member. Therefore, an increase in the deduction of € 1200 means a lower obligation to pay taxes and a cut of €330 and that is the net salary increase per month for more than 700 thousand citizens. That's what we're talking about here today. And it's a measure that would cost a lot less than the money that the state gave up through a reduction in VAT on meat and vegetables, which the citizens had absolutely no use for because the food didn't go cheap and it happened exactly the opposite, what we warned about. In addition, the owners of the trade chains have become rich. I have a message for the ruling today. Our citizens do not care about the growth of credit ratings and the reduction of deficits. It's not going to make him live any better. Our citizens need salary growth and poverty reduction. The longer the trend of inequality continues, the more fear and mistrust will grow for our citizens. That he won't be able to pay off the loans, that he won't be able to save enough to retire, that he'll never see his child on a well-paid job from which he won't be able to support his family. And that's why we're offering our salary hike plan today. Our plan to reduce inequality. Our plan to fight poverty. This is why we continue our fight for an equal Croatia today. If you think, gentlemen, by ruling, that our plan is not good and we don't need to raise wages, then tell us what your plan is to raise citizens' standards. How would you do that? If you have a concrete plan, how do you reduce inequalities and help people who live in poverty? Let's hear it. It would be good to hear your plan, if you have it. Tell the citizens. They're very interested in the subject. Please, gentlemen ruling. Here, tell us your plan, let's hear it. Come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144176	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Bernardiæ, a few times ago in the past, stood out and talked about how and how much he loved his country. It certainly isn't just holding hands on your heart or participating in a war that ended 30 years ago. Now the standard of citizens is the most important goal and showing that same love for its citizens. You made concrete suggestions on how to get there and you showed 30 years after the war how they love their country's citizens. This time it will be very interesting to see how rulings refuse almost safely or I will say, they will surely reject this bill and then we will see if this love is manifested to those people who chose us and who expect us to give them better conditions of life, a better standard, or enough to put their hand on the heart and live on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144178	The answer, the esteemed representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144179	Thank you, Mr. Matic. Well, I of the ruling, unfortunately, have not heard any concrete plan how to raise wages in Croatia, how to increase pensions. How to raise the standard of living for citizens, but I have seen how to increase the standard of living of ministers themselves, through expensive Mercedes parked in the yard, through 60 thousand kuna watches, through barbecues of over 150 squares, through millions, millions of villas that are not registered in property cards. So they have a plan for themselves, but they don't have a plan for the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144180	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144181	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. How important the salary policy in the Republic of Croatia is, in fact, the data that has actually been Croatian citizens in the last 2.3 years has raised over 10 billion cash loans. What does that mean? That they simply cannot meet their basic standard of living from their basic incomes and without cash, or cash credits that are growing rapidly, re-sustaining citizens into one debt slavery. We see every day at business banks, just, feel free to sign up, give your ID card and you'll get the money you need, and that's certainly what we need to warn you because citizens want to solve their life issues, but unfortunately they're back to taking so-called. the vultures of those loans, which unfortunately will once again be charged, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144182	The answer of the respected envoy Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144183	Dear colleague Lalovac, you have opened an important structural problem, so the money in Croatia has never been cheaper. Money has never been more and instead of being raised by entrepreneurs and invested, unfortunately, business investments in Croatia have never been less, they are at historically low levels, so entrepreneurial investments are simply by all indices that measure investment in Croatia, at one of the lowest levels of our independence and that is something that is scandalous. So, no job creation, no investment, and citizens only owe themselves to feed. In order to feed their families, they can buy at least new shoes for the fall when schoolgirls are not already undergoing educational reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144184	And the replica came from the esteemed representative Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144185	Thank you, Your Honor. Here's my colleague Bernardic, you were talking about reducing social inequality. Clearly, our proposal reduces at least a little social inequality, but there is something else that I see, I know and I see from young people, which is frustrating. Yesterday I read in the newspaper, the Croatian Football Federation shared with its members of the executive council 200 000 kuna each. 200,000 kuna, that's really frustrating. Here are a few young people who called me and said give it to Alana, say that when you have opportunities in the Croatian Parliament, it's frustrating that they've shared and we know in HNS, unfortunately politics is up to the door inserted. There from most of the executive board are members of HDZ, it is frustrating for my colleague Bernardic, when young people see that 200,000 kunas of age who have really earned nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144186	The answer of the respected envoy Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144187	That's right, like it's frustrating that for example. The sons of certain parliamentary representatives at 20 have hotels, that certain ministers have millions of villas, that they don't know how they found themselves overnight parked Mercedes right in their backyard, that they wear watches that their family has donated to them from over 60,000, so how the rest of the families in Croatia are not so successful, how do the other families barely make ends meet, why does 3/4 of our citizens have a May pay of average? Why 200 000 people for a salary of less than 3000 kn, and at the same time we look at this shameless, shameless wealth, that's what's frustrating, yes, and because, and because they're watching, all the buses of young people still left Croatia today until Mr. Schuker talked about swastikas because apparently HDZ likes to talk about swastika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144188	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to give an additional explanation of his opinion? No, I don't. I am opening the debate, the first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists should have spoken to the esteemed representative Miro Bulj, who has not, lost his right to speak, and will speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected representative Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144189	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The bill that is here before us, the SDP proposal is compared to what we now have as a current law, the difference between the SDP proposing that 73% have from income tax cities, 21% of the county and 6% for decentralised functions and there is no fund of alignment while the current bill, or the law that is current, is 60% of cities, 17% of the county, 17% are going to fiscal balance and 6% are decentralised functions. The colleagues forgot that during this period since this government had actually carried out three rounds of tax reform and during that period there was a total discharge which made the citizens more than 6.6 billion kuna, a disbursement while increasing the personal deduction of each citizen from 2600 to 3800 kn of the basic deduction now being accounted for in each citizen’s salary account. In this case, it is also important to say that in the SDP proposal, an additional billion and 700,000 from the state budget should be found, in order for all that to be achieved in this case, the units of local self-government and regional self-government to lose in this division, where they find it, so we do not see it except that they actually give from sources that are in the state budget, which is, for example, that. VAT. This reform, made by the current government, made a quality distribution and made it possible for income tax and the alignment fund to enable the smooth development of the Republic of Croatia to take into account the five-year average of total income of all units of local self-government, thus making it possible for every municipality and every city and every county to generate revenue from the original income incomes of all units of local self-government, thus making it possible to make more quality available by means, so that some underdeveloped and completely passive municipalities also increased cities' budgets budgets by double. What made it possible for cities and municipalities to recognize what these municipalities need, to make projects, to apply for EU projects, to build infrastructure, to create kindergartens and anything that is missing in that municipality or city or county. They were not allowed to do so until now, and they were dependent on whether or not someone was going to give them any funds. In this way, when the exact calculation was made, so in 2018 as reference values, the municipality was 1,927,00 kn per capita, for cities 2,585,00 and the county 319 and it changed in that period compared to 2019, which is very close to that and these benchmarks really enable each or most units of local self-government to have a significant increase and can now service all their obligations in a quality way and can further work on their own construction and their own progress. You mentioned in the opening statement what the unemployment rate was, so for a miracle in 2015 it was 16.3%, so that at the end of 2018 it would be below 10%. Therefore, it is proven that this government has worked very hard to reduce the unemployment rate and increase the employment rate. When we talk about who the larger Croat is and who will hold more hands on the heart then every Croat who is now taking loans will pay a lower interest because the interest rates are due to stability, thanks to endurance and work far below what it was in 2015, so it is. For housing loans, that's about 3.5%, unlike when it was 5 and 6%, not to mention non-intentional ones that were up to 8-9%. Therefore, it is this stability that we have, which this government has made for two years in a row to have a surplus, that it has, that it has paid off and paid off the guarantees that you gave apro for over 4.4 billion, and that it has managed to raise the ratings twice, and during your government it has fallen twice, and the public debt in relative terms has fallen twice as fast as other countries, then we can see what it is to run the proper public finances and how to manage the entire state. Therefore, the HDZ Club cannot and will not accept such a proposal because this is a populism that only gives false hope, and does not give a quality solution and is not achieved in the right way to raise wages on a real basis, and in this way, it must, therefore, be immersed in what other sources of the state budget, which would further cause changes and other laws, but would not quality-solve funding as you say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144190	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of whom a respected representative, Stjepan Curaj, should speak, is missing, is losing his right to speak, so he will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the respected representative Boris Lalovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, here today the SDP Club has opened an important topic and we are always talking about it because we see that the issue of living standards and pay issues in the Republic is one of the important topics, more important topics. In fact, this is seen by the structure of economic growth that, if we know that 60% of gross domestic products make up the consumption of Croatian citizens and that in this economic growth was the largest share of growth, it was related to consumption growth, therefore, and these reasons, the SDP Club will continue to insist on increasing living standards and increasing wages. What we're afraid of, and that actually shows the CNB's record that it's in the last 3 years. precisely because after the recession and crisis which the Republic of Croatia has not had of its independence, which is since 2009. until 2014-2015 which we don't remember, that Croatian citizens were very much saving, they didn't have, their standard of living collapsed, and there was a lot of denial. And that was what it was, wait, wait, it's just like that, that was just circumstances. After 2000 you know that the SDP government has changed its personal deduction twice, from 1800 to 2200 and from 2200 to 2600. And the HDZ government did it, I personally and repeatedly said it was a good model, so SDP's 800 kn raised and also HDZ's. But what is in the last changes because it does not cover a wider layer of citizens because it cannot only 15 thousand citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have the highest income or who have 20 and more thousand kn net wages carry economic development, and we said that, in terms of VAT taxes, then we are talking about VAT, consumption tax, that simply that part has not been poured into Croatian citizens' wallets, which is later confirmed by some research that they have conducted and once again indicates that it may be the most correct way to actually go directly into an increase in personal deduction because it directly affects the increase in wages or the construction of living standards. What's worrying is that the biggest part of the growth of personal consumption in this period, and that's how, simply the citizens of 2015 have started to invest more in, not only raising their standard of living, that it's been re-possessed to bank loans and that's not good, I see that the CNB has also reacted, that over $11,12 billion in the last two years have been taking cash credits and that's what we're worried about and that's what we're trying to say is that it needs to be limited and that actually through organic growth, which is primarily through wage growth, can raise the standard. Because when we talk about today, there was actually a speech yesterday, how cheap Croatia was in charge. I'll give you an example, I'm sorry Mr. Shucker's not here. In 2008, a bond with the rating, with the public debt and with the borrowing rate. Unfortunately, since the financial crisis today, there is no direct link to whether you have a rating or not and how much public debt you have in your debt and in relation to... The market. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2008, we had 40% share of the public debt. We had an investment rating. Mr. Schucker, the Minister of Finance at the time, was hardly in charge of the financial market below 7%. Under 7%. The government of the SDP when it issued the euro bond in 2015, unfortunately we are not an investment rating, and on the financial market we are in debt by 3.2%. Why can Croatia be in charge of 1.5% today? Only because in politics, and you saw that we issued euro bonds, that we are on the market, only because the EU has been running a cheap money policy for the past 3 years. Only because the EU and its dear policy, dear from the European Central Bank, is leading a cheap money policy, to stabilise financial markets in Europe, to reduce bond yields, to reduce bond yields both Greece and Spain and many other countries, because they were spoken in the euro bond, because if we are a single European and monetary market, they wanted to cut the debt in that part. Croatia has also blended in, and that is Croatia's contribution to the EU. It is a contribution, and it should be said to Croatian citizens, and that is when those who speak against the EU are about to enter, I think it is a contribution, and when I was telling the Minister in 2015 I remember being attacked as I can say it, that we are cheaper, that we will be in more cheap debt in the future, yes, it is happening today because we are becoming part of integration. We become part of the single market, and that's good. That's good. But what's the problem today, what we have a policy of cheap money today, and citizens can't raise their living standards, that's what's worrying us. That's what we're trying to have to look for together because when we're doing well, under quotes, if we have cheap money, we see in the Croatian financial market, that interest is 0. On the euro market, interest is 0. On the euro market, interest rates are 1%. That the state is less in debt, which in the second context will mean less pensions to those in the 2nd pension column because they, where do they make money? They make money by the state, we have to talk about it the same way because while they had interest rates of 6% and 7% on Croatian bonds, they made a good contribution and provided a higher contribution to our pensions that are in the second pillar. When interest rates fall to 1% and these bonds, the euro bonds will buy Croatian pension funds, we must say openly, there will also be the danger of Croatian citizens who have pensions in the 2nd pillar. And we have to say it openly, and the way that we're going to create it is that way that we have the benefits of the state and that's okay. On the other hand, we have a problem with the smaller pensions of all of us who are in the second pillar. We'll have to find solutions for that, too. But it scares us that simply when you play cheap money policy, when you have politics in both Croatia and the EU, Croatian citizens still cannot reach the standard at 50-60% of EU standards. Now that's what we're actually trying to point out that it may have to intervene more courageously, although I say, I welcome certain government decisions when they went into discharging their personal deduction. I think he'll do it, I'm telling you honestly, I think he'll do it next year, he'll do it and you'll go from 3800 to more because simply in this context, you have to make a contribution to that part and spend it, but on the other hand, it's certainly a question that the inequality that happened in Croatia, which is happening in Croatian society in the past 20 years, that it doesn't decrease until 2015 to 2019 when we have accumulated economic growth over 20%. We will have to find mechanisms because if our GDP is growing 20% in 4 years or 5 years, it doesn't matter, and that doesn't feel like Croatian citizens in their raising living standards, we will have to see which instruments of fiscal policy or monetary policy the government must do what you're actually saying is that Croatian citizens start to feel it on their own standard. And these are now challenges for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, these are challenges for us here in HS, these are the challenges for what will happen to us with our pensions when we cheaply deprive ourselves with that bond of 5% to 6% which cost the state budget, and what are the contributions to our pensions, and on the other hand, which will now bring 1% and the question is which areas we will open to Croatian pension funds in this context. So we welcome long-term and that means stability and public finances, but stability and the financial market, however, we need to open the issue of raising the standard of living, is that what Croatian citizens expect from us here and in HS, which they certainly expect from the government of the Republic of Croatia, in which ways and in which policies, they are not interested in whether it is monetary policy, fiscal policy, social policy or some other policies, they want to feel it on their own standard whether they want to feel a part of that 20% or 15% of GDP growth in their home budget, they want to feel in financing their children, in financing education, in serviceing loans and, or paying, paying for directors. So what the SDP will certainly do in the future is to continue to raise the issue, to open the issue of raising the standard of living, if we do not start to reduce this gap between the poorest and the richest in the Republic of Croatia at an age of growth, enormous growth in the Republic of Croatia and consumption and EU accession, EU integration in 4 g. ... how many years it will take us to bring these Croatian citizens closer together and that they say that we are finally equal citizens of the EU, we feel it and they want it, and then they won't want to move them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is the question being asked what if we can't even use fiscal policy to stop our young people from going out? ... I'm scared of being honest. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Once we say that we can't even raise salaries anymore to stop outflows, and then we're in a serious problem, then we're in a serious problem, and that's why while we still can, while we have a rise in budget revenues of more than 10 billion kunas from 2015 to 2019, which is good, which is good for stabilising public finances. However, it is not the only and basic condition, the condition of the state of stability, it is certainly that the stability of the basic precondition, however, it must be raised and the standard of living and we must reduce that gap at a time when we are doing well because some crisis is actually going to expand this gap and so you find the policy instruments, if you need us we will also give you support, so we open these issues, we want to really talk and help us and our actions in HS, and we as Governments are going to open these issues and we are trying to find together, common these solutions, is it in the same interest, when we also can't say that these are some kind of populist moves, that we just want to get some points and we've had to lead the same in difficult times, when we've always been very high in need to do the same thing in the financial market, when we should also be able to make some bold decisions, as much of your own time, that we've always had to be responsible, and in the most of time to be able to be able to be able to be able to do so in time, in time, and in time to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to be able to stay to do to stay to stay, but to stay, in time to stay, but to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to be safe, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to stay, to Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144192	We move on, on behalf of the promoter will speak to the esteemed representative Davor Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144193	Very briefly, very briefly, it's actually more of a question, we heard here the representative of Mrs. HDZ's club. Peric, I have to ask you something, therefore, if our proposal to raise salaries for all workers and workers in the Republic of Croatia for 330,00 kn per month already next month, populistism, what is it called when over a million kuna Mercedes is found in the courtyard of a minister? Is it perhaps called banditism? Because it's certainly not altruism. What's it called?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144194	We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Predrag Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Bernardic, a colleague from HDZ, when she gave her explanation about how Colinda sees the world, let's say you should come here one commission to see how to live in the Republic of Croatia and then by some random sample we choose three citizens and the first citizen says, "Citizen, watch out in the Republic of Croatia in the morning only wake up and what Mercedes in the yard is really nowhere, the other citizen by random sample says, so I have a barbecue, I live in the Republic, I have a barbecue, I have a car to visit a barbecue, I can't visit it on foot, a third citizen accidentally chosen says, so look, I'm buying a villa for 800,000,00 kn even though it's worth 4 million kuna and it really only has it in the Republic. The only prerequisite is that this commission would be there, that we could lock all the other citizens in houses and not go outside.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144196	Thank you for the quality of the replica, the esteemed representative Bernardić will respond, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144197	Well, unfortunately, you see, you pulled this parallel well, there's no hearing from the ruling, there's been hearing when you had to raise salaries to the richest, there's been hearing when you were supposed to bargain with import lobbys, leave money, extra profits with chains, shopping malls, but when you need to raise wages, increase pensions, then there's no hearing. But perhaps you would have just supported this initiative by the president of the Republic of Croatia who was four years ago. announced that the Republic of Croatia will be the most developed country in the world. Well, it wouldn't be a bad idea if this particular trail of yours agreed to this initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144198	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144199	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Bernardiæ, I had no intention of coming forward, but she offered your debate in the section when you mentioned the swastika... The SDP, but not directly to you because the SDP swastika goal was to bring down patriotism or Croatianism in the Republic of Croatia, that is one thing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Secondly, it is amazing how you present incorrect data when it comes to investments in the Republic of Croatia, I am one of the witnesses of daily investments in the Republic of Croatia in the construction of social, municipal and economic infrastructure and the reduction of unemployed people just by opening jobs in the development of economic zones and all other necessary developments in the Republic of Croatia and you, without evidence, are presenting data about non-investment in the Republic of Croatia which is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144200	... which had nothing to do with the subject and the other will probably be answered by the esteemed representative Bernardić. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144201	Dear colleagues, many people have defended this country, many people have died for this country, many people unfortunately are underground today because of our country, and during that time some have been rich, there have been war profiters and have become presidents of your party, and that is what this is all about. So Croatia is loved by work, by honesty, by giving up, not by the right hand on the heart, and by the left hand in someone else's pocket, as you do by your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144202	First of all, don't shout from the scene, and fellow Bernardic, you can't tell your colleague that he steals, you can't do that, right? If he had a hand in someone else's pocket, you can't say that, right, that's not right. Let's move on, fellow Djujic, what's the injured Rules of Procedure in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144203	... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144204	Nice to meet you, thank you. Here you go, you can speak individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So what I'm trying to say is that all day with these stories about the sister-in-law, about patriotism, about supposed someone who wanted to destroy patriotism without any evidence, they're talking about us, about the SDP, when we tell us I don't think about myself personally, and then the same sentence says that we're doing something flat-out, without evidence and chatter, but basically the backdrop of this whole story with this swastika all day that my colleague Schucker started at a previous debate, and some other thing is a distraction with real problems and the real problems in this country are not a swastika on the Man and I'm going to tell you about the swastika. Dale, Chief of Police... Let me go in my debate, Vice President, please don't interrupt me, so as you let others go, so let me go, thank you very much. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, the head of the police administration of the Split-Dalmatia County at the time of the SDP government who was supposed to see an investigation into this conspiracy of anti-dominated swastika on Pomlje, he must have done a bad job or worked for the SDP so that he destroyed Croatian patriotism, so HDZ's rewarding body put him as chief director of police when you won the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144206	I'm talking about the subject. [[I'm asking you to talk about the subject.]] [[Don't talk about it, I'm giving you a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144207	So what do you forbid me to say? So why didn't you colleagues when he spoke, he talked about the subject, he stuck to the subject strictly, his colleague Shucker stuck to the subject strictly [[Intruder Reiner: No, no, please continue to talk or about the topic.]] Look, Vice President, I ask you that when you measure something, you measure us all with the same measure, don't do it. [[Intruder Reiner: He said one sentence and I warned him.]] No, don't measure, don't measure [[I'm measuring you and you know it very well.]] So come on, get me out! [[Don't argue with me, you'll get a second warning!]] So throw me out, give me another warning, what's your problem with what I'm saying? [[I'm not gonna kick you out. I'll give you...]] I'm talking about the subject. [[No, you're talking about the subject, please.]] I'm talking about the subject. The theme is pay. The theme is pay. So, the chief director of the SDP police government when we lost the election...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144208	.../Intruder Reiner: I'm giving you a second warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144209	Well, no, let me finish, so you didn't hear what I meant. So when we lost the election, the man lost his salary, and you see how the HDZ government took care of his salary, so that most of the people on the HNS executive board who are members of the HDZ, the man who obstructed Croatian patriotism with the swastika on Pomlje, hired as head of security at the HNS, to have a salary. I would like the HDZ government to care so much for the salaries of all Croatian citizens, all of them, and not just those who do bad things in your opinion. The head of the Split-Dalmatia police administration that you think worked so badly, you gave him the salary of the police director in your government because he destroyed patriotism in your words. So give the people let go of the swastika, let go of the hollow story, realize that we live in 2019 and that patriotism is measured by works and works can be an increase in wages, which is what this government does only for the richest and only for its party members. So you have a failed tax reform behind you that has not produced any results besides that 18 000 of the richest people in Croatia have received even more and that 28% of the population of Croatia living on the edge of poverty still have nothing, that young people leave Croatia, that we have no demographic policy, that's all pay policy. You rejected our first proposal, this bill is a proposal for a package of SDP laws that work to solve this problem. And that's when you said that we gave it up for the first reading of the first law you said that we made an incomplete proposal, that we should have suggested this, and we suggested it, so you didn't even look at the agenda. I'm sorry there's no fellow Shuker here who just said in the debate that we're just criticizing and destroying, I don't know, patriotism Croatian without making any concrete proposals. So here's a concrete proposal, how to increase wages for all employees in Croatia as soon as possible. This is the proposal we're making, support it. Don't criticize him with administrative mistakes. So, every day and yesterday, Minister Maric boasts of the country's exceptional financial indicators, lower debt, enormous budget filling, which citizens have, nothing, just the richest, only individual HDZ members, so it's not true that there's no money, there's only money you don't want to give, and that's the difference between you and us. and that's the difference that you don't see, and you just keep talking about patriotism, about swastikas, about home ready and second time you'll get two mandates for the Euro Parliament elections, not four, two because that's where it's brought you to politics and your head in the sand because you don't see what people are telling you, you're acting according to Plenkovic's "I can do what I want" and you're looking around in Croatia for black swans and I don't know saboteurs in my ranks. Only you keep asking, only you are talking about these topics that is good for us, and we will talk about our proposals, and our proposal is to increase salaries for all Croatian citizens. And that's it, there's a clear difference either you'll support it or you won't support it, there's patriotism, there's who's patriot and who's thinking about Croatian citizens. And this is not just a measure of improving the standards of Croatian citizens, this is also a demographic measure, this is a measure of returning or stopping people from evicting, and why people would come back when they see what you are doing in HDZ. And not only now, but you've already stolen the country three times, in the '90s in privatisation, then Sanader the great patriot of the infirmly condemned war profiteer that's the man you called, you yelled at his flags the greatest patriot, the greatest patriot. We all remember that line that rang the buzzards. Well, then you have one prime minister in conflict of interest, so you have another one who's afraid of the country's institutions, so I don't know he has after syncope, so he didn't know who he was working where he was when he named him to some function he remembered what half an hour before he decided he might have worked somewhere, but he doesn't see that his minister worked somewhere, etc. So, look, let's get a little bit together, gather around, we at the SDP are not glad when HDZ is bad, when you're weak, we like you to be better because then we're better, we're better now, we're better than you, but we want to be even better, and we can only be if you get a little better. Get out of the way, people. It's in the interest of Croatia. So in Croatia's interest must be the balance I don't like to watch, I'm sad when you fail, you're one strong Croatian party. It's not good, for no one, find more of that black swan and gather around, let's go on, let's fight manly and let's go work in the interests of the citizens, but by then we will continue to propose our proposals, and you can show at least a little bit of what you want towards, and show that you care little about Croatian citizens so support this. This is the first reading yet, so until the second reading you have the opportunity to support both that first law and this law and we have made one whole proposal, if you do not make a counterproposal. Here's what we're going to support is your proposal for an increase in wages, so let's make it the same, here's the copy, let's make it the plagiarization, build it up, we'll support it just to make it better for the citizens. But these are the things where patriotism is measured and let's stop talking about, you know, we're not in the Middle Ages, we're not in the past. I was applying for these points this morning before, then when I came by when I saw some colleagues who didn't know who they were still there in, I don't know in '92. They didn't move forward, I pulled the argument, not to argue at all. It's better for me to be alone than to listen to some nonsense I hear often. So come on, let's talk about serious subjects, 21st century is people, we went somewhere forward, citizens have some problems that you don't see because you live in your balloon, but come down more and let's go, let's work in the interest of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144210	It seems to me that my colleague Bauk will or won't, he won't, okay. The next, uh-huh well, the next individual debate will be the respected representatives of Sabine Vosovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144211	I thought my colleague Djujic had replicas, but he didn't, I expected at least replicas from HDZ's side, but apparently my colleague Djujic is right in the good part of his debate. I will not say in my debate anything spectacular, not historically, but I will take the opportunity to appeal once more to the ruling party or to the ruling coalition and the strongest party in the ruling HDZ coalition, which is to accept this law. This law is in a package with the law we also proposed, the Law on Income Tax, the exit from a difficult situation for a good number of Croatian citizens. What does he mean? It means an increase in salaries for each employee in the Republic of Croatia from 330 to 500 kuna, but indirectly it also means a better starting position, a better standard of living, greater security. We owe it to our citizens. Especially in a situation where we hear from small screens daily from the government's representatives how we finally started in Croatia, how our budgetary problems and the crisis we've been facing for a good number of years finally at sunset, how we're growing on the ratings, how we're more financially potent. So if that is so, if every day we tell Croatian citizens about it and the good that it is, then let's do something to make everyone in this country feel the benefits of being good in Croatia, not that people watch TV and feel like they live in some parallel universe where someone convinces them that we are better, and they unfortunately don't feel it. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, my colleague Perić made it very clear that the Government, or the Croatian Parliament, is not intending to support our proposal. She said that this government has done a lot of work on discharging the state budget and Croatian citizens, Croatia's economy, mentioned three rounds of tax reform as key reform measures, the disbursement of 6.6 billion kunas, thus profiting naturally as she says units of local self-government with an additional 1.7 billion kuna, which gave them some additional input to invest in infrastructure, to invest in kindergartens, that some units of local self-government have even doubled their incomes, that interest in Croatia has never been less, if citizens must already be in debt and unfortunately have to, and she boasted at the 3% interest that the largest interest they can make on housing loans, encouraging housing loans for the purchase of the first estate of young families. However, if you ask our citizens if they feel these measures that you have cited as something that the government does for the benefit of citizens, which has improved the standard of citizens and that this does not require an additional 1.7 billion kuna that we would have to ask for for units of local self-government if we adopt our law, the answer will be no citizens do not feel it. Why? Your tax reform citizens don't feel, a good part of 90% of Croatian citizens don't feel it, you can think that you have done something spectacular, unfortunately you haven't, it has unfortunately secured higher wages for the 15,000 richest. These richest ones do not include parliamentary representatives, clean public works, include the President of the Croatian Parliament as the only one of us, the Prime Minister, managers, bankers etc., but a good part of Croatian citizens of this tax reform unfortunately has nothing. When we talk about the tax reform on housing, you say that we encourage the purchase of the first real estate, that we regulated the interest limit that is maximum 3% for that half, or the first 4 or 5 years that the government co-finances half of the loan, but you forget to say that you have imposed 4% of the property tax on every young family in Croatia, which they did not have to pay until a few years ago. And you say where we'll find 1.7 billion to enforce our law. So find him here, where you took the young families, where you decided to tax them with 4% to buy the first real estate even though they didn't have to pay the tax yesterday, here's the money and point it at, direct it into bigger, bigger salaries. It doesn't have to be 330 to, the deduction is as we suggested, you suggest some smaller but to be larger than the existing one, here's always the solution. Whoever wants to find a way, who won't find an excuse. You also mentioned that you were benified by the local self-government unit, as they now invest in kindergartens, so here I and you live in Zadar, I don't see that a new kindergarten was built or started to build or that funds were provided in the budget, for example, to build a new kindergarten or school. If we said okay, now we have bigger revenues than the super government that has spent a good tax reform, we have bigger incomes like the city of Zadar, okay now we're going to build a kindergarten and let's say the school on Novi Buchanan, 20 years of talking about building that school, we're desperate for that school, but not just for that school, but that's the one that's number 1, we're really looking at the need for it and I don't see it, and I'm familiar with the items of the city of Zadar's budget, I don't see that the local self-government unit unfortunately profited something from these revenues and that it's directed at what you mentioned that this should have been directed. Curricular reform, I will end up with this, there is no reform of education, although I still think that it is half-reform, it is more form than reform, and it has come down to investing in this, investing in machines, investing in pills, and not investing in people, there are no higher salaries for teachers and teachers. Now something Minister Divjak is talking about we're going to raise the salaries 4%, so plus 2, nobody's consulted on it, they're doing some PR to HNS, pressures that way to the government of the Republic of Croatia, but I think let's be realistic with that money in the budget there is no. how a woman can say that in the 9th month, teachers and teachers will have a higher salary of 4% when education reform starts, that the coefficients will increase when this money is not in the budget, so that is not serious, it is very unserious. Although it wouldn't surprise me at all, I don't think that the rebalancing in that direction will be seen to increase the salary to teachers and teachers from the 9th month, but I wouldn't be surprised that there in that budget for the next pre-election year the government overwrites our ideas, plagiarizes our ideas and decides to increase, raise wages. Let it be and so be, be it for pre-election purposes, but let it be at least something, but you will also show that you really care not about the lives of Croatian citizens but about winning elections and up to the election result. Although I'm saying, even though it's for pre-election purposes, it's better than ever. Once again I appeal, in a country where 27.9% lives on the edge of poverty or social exclusion, in a country where 130,000 people have left us and left our country, in a country where 1.2 million employees have paid less than average, in a country where a huge number of employees still do not receive salaries, and a good part of them do not even work, I ask you and I appeal to you, regardless of what we, the opposition, accept the proposal and therefore make more salaries and beginners and trainees and trainees and young people who have no tax relief on children or dependent family members, to all people who have low wages, those who belong to the middle layer although unfortunately in our midst, we have people who are rich or people who are poor. Unfortunately, we people who live a normal average life don't have, because most of our fellow citizens don't even have the basic needs of life. I know that these words will be thrown into the wind, and maybe they won't, so if that's the case, and if it's just about the election and the campaign, it was worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144212	We have a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Sabina talked about the arguments of HDZ when, not the arguments and the Government, because the Prime Minister is silent, about how they defend or talk about how the current Law on the financing of local self-government units has brought a whole series of benefits to local self-government units in terms of the many billions that have merged into their budgets and their budgets. That's not the whole story. Namely, income tax of 60% on all units of local self-government regardless of their index of development is not a fair thing. 265 units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia have a share in the tax 28%, less than they had... and those who are the most endangered, mountain-mounted areas and areas below 75% of the development of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Compensation measures, i.e. fiscal balancing, are not enough to cover this. By 2021 there are fuses, which after that. These units will lose not twice their budget, but 3 times their budget. ... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144214	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144215	I don't have anything to add or take away. You know it very well as the head of a municipality and a very successful head of the municipality. From you do not speak theory as from many here who today spoke against this law on behalf of the club, you speak life and practice. So you know how the units of local self-government, how they live and what benefits tax reform has brought and what we can expect, in the long term, not in the short term, which is, we see, one system that isn't quite, unfortunately, the most unfair, but it's not the whole tax reform that we've already said. Only 15,000 of the richest in the country profited. The other nothing, it's injustice, nothing but injustice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144216	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144217	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Glasovac, here, I am glad that my colleague Matteljan mentioned this story about the financing of local self-government units, so HDZ wants to impose the thesis all the time as they care about local self-government units, and we like to take money from them. Look, we've also stated in this bill that, where would the funds come from, that is, compensation for this part that would be lost from the settlement fund, but they don't want to read it. counterpart Mateljan mentioned an example of HDZ taking care of local self-government units. I'll mention the other one. Thus, from 1.1 this year, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas entered into force. The deadline of 1.3 was to bring in sublegal acts that would prescribe measures to be taken by the Benefiti residents of those areas. Today, there's nothing to this day. There's nothing. So we have a law that's inapplicable, that doesn't apply and that doesn't work and HDZ does. The officials who keep talking we've passed the Law on the Hill... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144218	The next replica is respected MPs... Here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm sorry, answer, answer. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Dear representative of the Voice, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144219	Thank you very much. It's no wonder to you, you know, I remember when we were in a position of responsibility for Croatia, a single icon, what, our guts were pulling out how we work against the Zadar interests, how we're going to take a Zadar transfusion, how we're doing damage to Zadar projects. Today, when we are no longer in a position of responsibility for Croatia, they end the Zadar transfusion, hitchhik, forget, it's just a matter of perspective, you know, whether you're in power or not. If you're in power, you're allowed everything, and if you're not in power, everything is allowed, even a lie, to rob your opponent. We've already seen it, enjoyed it and tasted it, nothing new. But sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144220	The next replica is the respected representatives of Grozdana Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144221	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, if anyone has the right to talk about this tax, it's me. I must have struggled with it more than you and everyone else. The city of Zadar, if you mention the city, built several kindergartens, the school in Bila Brig, funded private kindergartens etc., etc., huge amounts and you know it very well and we don't have unlisted children. As far as real estate tax is concerned, he's 3%, and he's not paid by young families because they usually get new apartments and then pay VAT, and then they don't pay real estate taxes. So that's what it's all about, and as far as your big concerns are concerned, well, it takes up to 5,000 kunas to pay off some employer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144222	The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144223	Well, it takes sometimes a solid salary to be in charge of your more favourable terms and get a loan, even one with an interest rate of 3%, right? Yeah. Let's go back to Zadar. He's here. We said everything we had. You mentioned school at Bill Brig. It's a shame. The 5th city in Croatia in 25 years built 1 school, and it would not have been built if it hadn't been for Radiir Cacic. So, your priorities there are known, not only in Zadar but unfortunately and wider, unfortunately and wider, that and the model that was managed and who was called... It was also known and spread. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This model was also applied at the RH level and some processes are now under way because they were very clean jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144224	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144225	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Sabine, speaking of Zadar, it's a miracle you won't mention... I'm really sorry you won't mention it, and here in the heart of HS, one of the best municipalities in the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here among you is a former minister who has challenged the development of the Murvica area. Who hired 700 people, then at that time. And all the time it's... to the city of Zadar because you had absolutely nothing to do with it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just you... And one more thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The income tax was at your time when the local administration units were smaller, in 2013 you shut down the profit tax, units of local administration and what does that say? And you had an average... 75%, of course, of some of the municipalities that were in some major construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at that time you took the municipalities and cities of 3 billion kuna. I know it well, and I'm a witness because I've been the head of a municipality for many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144226	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed voter representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144227	We didn't take municipalities and cities, we took us, we heard the army today, we took both teachers and teachers and nurses and doctors and social workers, many of us took. Kidals. Kidals. Why? Because there was no money. And why wasn't there any money? Because the state was robbed. As far as I'm concerned, who robbed her? Of course. But now let's go back to... The economic zone, it's an honor to you, where we're lucky our mayor looked up to yours and that we've seen an economic zone black, which is unfortunately 10 years on paper alone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I wish there were more of these economic zones that weren't Podokin's villages that no one saw but that they were real in this area at least like yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144228	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144229	Thank you, Vice President. This topic is actually taking place now and this bill of ours is definitely continuing and it is good that it comes after the debate on the report on the implementation of the National Security Strategy of Croatia because the bigger it is, the more important it is actually when we talk about security, what is more important than the well-being of all citizens? I think that this law that we are proposing right now and which is part of the law that we represented more is in some way and part and one small part is the answer that actually, how to raise the standard of living, how to make most citizens' lives better, what to do to reduce the poverty gap, what to make most people or more employees pay more. And just when we're talking about this proposal I don't see from the other side or any argument that says, which would be against, I really don't see any actual or any real argument why this law or this proposal doesn't need to be accepted. Because why are you so opposed to raising your salary by 700 thousand people? Is there any reason at all, is there any argument other than because the proposal comes from the side, not from your side, not from the side of HDZ, but from this side, and what is actually the only obstacle that you obviously see. Why don't you accept this proposal when you're already and now you've made sure yourself that what you've done by amending the income tax law that has led to an increase in wages and living standards, hence an even better standard for 15 grand and those who have already been rich. So for those of the richest and managers and bankers and politicians, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament. Either that was actually the goal or is it really your only goal? Which means you don't want this other one, that you don't just care about this other one. And it's actually, I don't know whether it's true or it's, or it's something else you don't care about, you don't care about citizens, you don't care about teachers, you don't care about nurses, you don't care about engineer doctors, you don't care about all those who, if the deduction goes up to 5,000 kuna automatically mean salary increases, automatically. And now not only are we talking about getting paid or we're making this proposal, we've really thought about it, we've explained this proposal, we have a projection of this proposal, we have calculations to make it look and to affect the lives of 700 thousand people. And that's the most important thing. And precisely in this situation where we have the latest 2018 reports when it is seen that there is still an increase, that despite GDP growth, the risk of poverty has continued to rise, especially for those of older age. So when you have that in front of you, when all the reports are telling you, when the public defenders' reports tell you about it, you continue to ignore all those proposals that would in fact lead in some way to an increase in living standards at this point in time in a larger number of citizens. And it's actually incomprehensible, it's vague, and it's actually one and vague at all, not interested in this proposal, this way of solving the problem, I think about which we can talk, we can talk about it, we can build it up if necessary but I don't see any real interest on the other. Is it just an interest to increase the salary of those who are the richest, so it's a key question or to do something different and if we're talking about doing something different, you say so it's not good. We have built kindergartens or we have built two-way, one-way schools, we have done this to organize the school in one shift or in kindergartens to have parents and in two shifts, but the question is still whether, is available, is kindergarten available to everyone, a question, or only to them. The question is who will be able to pay for all this and who will be able to maintain all this you've done? The question is whether the proposed minimum wage is enough, or that it is optimal, as the minister in your government says, and whether it is really beneath any dignity because 3,000 kunas, for 3,000 kunas, say that it is really quite enough for a decent life is really incomprehensible and not good, is not good especially when talking and the positions of whoever is in government. So I know it's not going to change, I know that it's just in your presence that it's something that's not your interest, which is uninteresting to you, but I believe and I hope that the citizens will still respond differently, and that they will recognize what's important, that they will recognize that it's important to see all citizens and not just those who are the richest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144230	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144231	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, colleague Alfirev, in your debate you noticed what was in the essence of the problem and the government, unfortunately and the Republic of Croatia and everything that is happening today in Croatia and that there is no problem with the black swans of the HDZ, nor has there ever been a vote from the ships expected by Vice President Reiner in order to reach the fifth term, because if you remember Mr. Reiner, he said that he was waiting for more votes from the ships to arrive in the press, means those voices will never arrive, but that there will never be an increase in people, that the salaries that are worthy of life, may be black swans flying out of Croatia and that should be considered. So the problem today in Croatia is dissatisfaction of citizens with the government of the Republic of Croatia, I'd be begging Mr. Bucarica if you weren't suffocating, Mr. Rainer can look at it himself for an hour, time. [[Thank you. The esteemed Alfirev will respond.]] Let me finish my sentence. [[Intruder Reiner: Here you go.]] So the problem with black swans...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144232	but the problem is the black life of our fellow citizens, thank you very much. [[Intruder Reiner: Here you go, colleague Alfirev.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144233	Thank you. That's right, colleague Maras, black swans aren't exactly where they thought or thought they were, the black swans just said what they think of this, what they think of the current policy. What they think about how HDZ treats citizens is crucial, and that is also what I believe will continue and will see what is happening and that it will recognize both in the next elections exactly and that it is the citizens who decide what is right and what is not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144234	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the event of a failure to stop the fuse within the meaning of Article 15(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 15(2). The law on the financing of local self-government units to which the poorest units of local self-government, 256, are allocated to them by a lack of funds not from the balancing fund but directly from the budget, in 2021, so these 256 units of local self-government will remain without 2/3 of their budget. I ask you then who will finance the maintenance of strong homes of culture, firehouses, kindergartens that we are now building with European money in these municipalities and cities, who will finance when these generals lose funds that will lose in the long term this good Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144236	The next replica is respected, and the colleague did not report for the answer, the next replica of the respected representative Boris Lalovec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That fellow you were saying, it's a disassembly in society, and what really upset me a month ago is the data that brought out the CNB governor that only 3% of Croatian citizens have the savings of 75 billion kuna, meaning 10 billion euros Croatian citizens have in savings and when it comes to blocked citizens, somewhere around 150 000 Croatian citizens, according to all those analyses of FINA, did not have 10,000 kuna for basic needs, directors, resolution, deblockations. Now there is a certain problem of those who have a social function, unfortunately in the latest tax reform, those who have received on salaries, it will further shift to savings or savings or through the purchase of real estate and see what is done in that real estate market balloon, however, while the largest while Croatian citizens feel that part... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144238	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed attorney, Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144239	Yeah, well, that's right, that's exactly what you said, so the reform they've imagined, which is being implemented, is just leading to an even bigger decomposition, and exactly what this small number, so 3% of the citizens have so much savings, and on the other hand, so many citizens are in debt or so many citizens living in poverty, is actually supposed to be the alarm. It's supposed to be an alarm, and that's why I'm surprised that the current government doesn't actually have an answer. Or it doesn't give us an answer, and what we're talking about right now, what we're talking about, and what we're proposing right now, is one sure part of the answer to how we should create raising the standard of living.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144240	The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the financing of a unit of local and regional self-government, in essence, the title of this law hides the desire of a club, one party in the Republic of Croatia to allow a more dignified and quality life of our fellow citizens. And even sometimes in the debate both by the government and by the ruling, there are colleagues who have remained to defend the colors of the ruling party, Mrs. Grozdan and Branko from HDZ. Of course, of course, there's also the vice president of the Parliament who's only modernizing the session. But as hard as they try, even in their eyes you can see that you might want these conditions of the law to come true, but because unfortunately in Croatia there is still an attitude that prevails when someone suggests something and quality, unless it is from our party or government, we do not accept and we do not want to support it. Unfortunately, this proposal will not be supported either. And we are discussing this proposal here, 20 to 9, it is already very late, perhaps several hundred of our fellow citizens are watching this session and in fact they are not clear why HDZ refuses to keep increasing 300, 400, 500 kn wages to people when they know that these salaries are not in Croatia today, so that man can live normally. So if five thousand kunas receive more than half of our fellow citizens, or receive less than five thousand kn, then what are we talking about? What are people leaving for? Which is why buses are full for Austria, Germany, planes to Ireland, but because wages in Croatia are not enough for people to live in a quality way. And all those stories about the clerk, the ratio, the specific areas, the jobs, how many reforms were made, how many people are trying, don't mean anything. What to say about 75% of citizens not seeing the government's efforts and what to say about the ruling coalition currently having less than 30% support in the Republic of Croatia. What kind of reforms are we talking about? What will this government spend in a year and a half of its term of office? What are we talking about? What are we talking about here? Well, it's a simple waste of time and money, and worst of all, the loss of the perspective of our citizens who have less and less every day in Croatia. Go to Slavonia and look from village to village, every other house is empty, sold, people can't even sell houses because there's simply no market, it's moved hundreds of thousands of people from Slavonia, in the last 3 years it's gone from there. And then someone's gonna say something's been done. So what do you see it by? Mr. Secretary of State, what do you see it by? There are indicators, who notices these huge tax reforms, reliefs, improvements in the status of our people, better lives, why people leave? Do they have something against HDZ, so they don't really want to be while HDZ is in power in Croatia, so they're leaving? Or because he simply has no opportunity to live with quality and dignity. How much the government takes care of it and how much the finance minister takes care of the opposition's proposals, it tells you that there is no man here, every time, Mr. Zrinasic can from our bill this one chair is he's grown himself, as much as a man sits here. He's been sitting for months, we're proposing, but Mr. Finance didn't come and say one sentence about what he thinks about these proposals that I'm sure he accepts that people would live better, and that we wouldn't care and talk to him and tomorrow, maybe in some way in passing, say that we suggested it. So let's make his suggestion. We shouldn't have put this law in the parliamentary procedure, we could have made a proposal to him, so let it be written by the HDZ proposal, Mr. Zdravko Marić, whom he will, Mr. Plenkovic, Mr. Millian Brkic, does not matter. Just to adopt and to have people pay five hundred kunas higher than they have today. And if we thought about it that way, maybe we would do something and we might see that, then Croatian citizens would not leave Croatia to that extent. To see a certain perspective, a certain justice, not to watch HDZ people get rich overnight. So watch out for the Minister of Agriculture Tolusic. In four years, a man has acquired something that no one can gain his entire working life. Suddenly. He made a man a property he didn't, as far as he had, even manage to sign up for land books. That's how much he's got. And then, of course, he has to supplement his property card and he'll probably find himself in a certain conflict of interest. - Is it Mrs. Crescent? Minister Žalac of the same, it is a parakos, meaning two ministers from most devastationed part of Croatia, Slavonia, Žalac and Tolusic are the biggest examples of the sudden and incredible improvement of their personal material status. Mrs. Žalac Mercedes, and Mr. Tolusic's house, or a barbecue of approximately squares, which most citizens do not have anywhere near the residential, residential area where they live. Of course, it is understood that there is always a link between the company that worked for the county to find itself there. By some miracle, there is no, I don't know if a man has shown one account of everything he's done or is meant to work that way where HDZ is in power. Because you'll agree they don't even notice when 17 million kunas are gone, and what will be burdened with the bills for the barbecue, the house, the fence, etc. So on this side, while these justices are gone in Croatia, while solidarity, while people do not allow Croatian citizens to live with dignity, they will not have the feeling that they can live in Croatia and therefore leave the Republic of Croatia. And I have a feeling, I have a feeling that it's worth HDZ and it's worth it to them, and we can do it like here, Mr. Vice President is a scientist, and we can prove it materially. In the European elections in Ireland, HDZ receives one single vote. So it's amazing with which precision HDZ tragedies people leaving Croatia that they're not their voters. So out of 30,000 of our people in Ireland, only one voted for HDZ. Incredibly, this Mr. Kopal really has great opportunities analytically to identify which groups of society should be driven out of Croatia to correct its outcome. And on this side should be asked, I would say the answers to those questions that bother us, which is why people in Croatia have a sense of imperceptibility, have no sense of justice, have no sense of being able to achieve some of their personal ambitions here and that they can only get a job, and this even now seems unreal when the directors of several national parks are brought in. Well, that's what Bandic and HDZ taught us that it's normal, that it's a job. Here's the other day we're listening to footage in courts where a clerk is transferred from one to another more paid job with a question because you know who her dad is, and you don't know what a lady can do or doesn't do, and that's why it wasn't done. So we live in such a society because you set such standards that we may have to change for years and decades in order for people to even feel that they have a chance here, unless they have a godfather, cousin, aunt or aunt. So, here to finish this debate, I could still talk a lot here about injustices, about how much HDZ doesn't want to take one step and help our people, but like this one I'd say the easy point that I can pick is amazing that they don't want to. That they didn't want to accept a proposal that would actually go into favor with them. That all our employees in Croatia have 300, 400 kunas higher salary since next month. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144242	It's got a few replicas. She is the first respected representative of Maria Alfirev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144243	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Maras, well you mentioned perspectives, let research indeed say that especially young people indicate the lack, that for the rest of Croatia should be the reason for the perspective and that this simply simply, for this reason, the most leave Croatia, of course, by citing the wages. Here is also another information that is becoming less and less young workers of age by reducing by some more than 100,000 young people than before, and I wonder, in fact, how does this larger number of young people view the smaller part that is so promising that at the age of 21, they can already own the hotel.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144244	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144245	How do they look at it? Well, people look at it with disgust, people look at it with contempt because they know that what's acquired isn't acquired by someone's hard work, knowledge, work, but simply by the circumstances that your dad's in HDZ and that your dad's a local sheriff and that the local sheriff has been a god and a beating for 29 years in his neighborhood, that without him, you can't possibly hire a cleaning lady in the county, let alone something else. Until we clear this up, until you and your HDZ colleagues rebel against it, until we figure it out together, there won't be any different views of our fellow citizens on the situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144246	The next replica is the respected representative Grosdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144247	Your esteemed colleague doesn't need you to worry about HDZ has done a lot in the last 2.5 years, and yet you'll be surprised. If we're going to talk about the number of votes in Ireland, then the HDZ was voted by 53 people and SDP 9. As far as the figures on the number of employees and those who pay total income tax were when the minister proposed 2,750,000 people, at that time 915,000 were those who did not pay the income tax, so that the new law freed another 560,000, so 1.5 million people were not in tax returns then and thus the average income tax rate fell from 7.6 to 6.3%. So, you can also see how he's taking care of.../The speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144248	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144249	Thank you, Mrs. Peric, I would love to, I would like to be surprised and, yes, here I am every day watching, watching, reading the newspaper, watching the news, and hoping to see something of quality that will surprise me, which will motivate our people to stay in Croatia disappointed. I open the news and see Minister Žalac's Mercedes, open the news I see Mr. Tolusic's 100-square barbecue and some squares, open the news he sees the house right away I made an offer, counter offer to Mr. Maric for twice the price. From where, I'll take it to the Credit Bank, and the bank will estimate for twice as much, they'll cover it. So the house was bought for 800 I give 1.6 million, and the bank will estimate it for 3.2 and I buy it and sell it and I'm left with 1.6 million, and how it just goes in HDZ's way So that's what I'm telling you, Mrs. Grozdan. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It's.../Speakers speak at the same time./... offer Mr. Maric and you've got rid of him. he pays the MPs for six terms of office. [[You said yours.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144250	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144251	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Maras that this government now has the confidence of only 30% of our citizens so I went to see how much she had, what trust they had in the government you were sitting in, our citizens. So then he says 2013. 23.8%, and in June 2014, only 13% of Croats believe the government. I don't think this government would look up to the work of the government you've been sitting in and have this kind of support.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144252	Okay. Next on behalf of the promoter will be respected, you haven't answered, yes, then I haven't seen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144253	Thank you very much. Mrs Branka must be accurate, so she always compares herself and then you take, so it's simple, you take the elections of European 2019 and 2014 and she sees that then the government or the same government then had almost 30% of the support alone, that I'm not saying yet some other parties that could be called close or most of whom were somehow compensated or done, let's say the voices of Mirela Holly were also this kind of voices that could be added to most of them then. So it's very simple to count 22 plus Bandic 3% plus HNS by 2.5% and to add all these chips and chips, and I trust the government to vote, votes to vote are government trust, so we can't survey, and the best poll is an election poll. I had to do it now because Mrs. Branka had a little distracted me for a second more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144254	Every time you get distracted, you keep talking for 15, 20, 25 minutes, a second longer, come on, let's just hold on at last once so that the president of your party can say something on behalf of the proposer. Here's my colleague Bernardić. Is it finished?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144255	The end is a respected vice president of the assembly, first of all, I am sorry that every time you discuss life, people, their standards, salaries, pensions, emigration, separate families, you try to hide the truth from the people. You push the debate into small hours, so the people don't see what they see, which is that families are separated, that people are moving out, that buses are leaving our country, that over a million people live in poverty or on the edge of poverty, that wages are low. You're trying to hide it, yes, and a good representative of our colleague noticed that there was no Minister of Finance here, so there is no one because the theme of the lives of people, our citizens, workers and workers in Croatia is not important to him, that he would be here, but it was important to him and he was here when he had to pay for millions of advisory fees in Agrokor, when he had to put money in his pockets, when he was supposed to be involved here in the biggest corruption affair in history, then he was here, then he was interested, millions were passing away, then he was here. Today when it comes to the salaries of people who have churches, he's gone because he doesn't care, he doesn't care about the people of this country, he doesn't care about the people, he doesn't care about anyone but his own interests and his own pocket. But we won't stop, you won't discourage us and you can't stop us. We have an untamed spirit to bring back to this country the hope you tried to take three times and now you're working on it again. And the most important issue in Croatia is the issue of wages, if there are more important issues, if there are more important issues than the lives and standards of our citizens. When have the salaries been raised most in Croatia? In the period from 2000 to 2003, even over 50%, pensions over 40%, that and my colleague said well from Policnik to Zadar, so I am going to Dalmatia tomorrow and I am proud and happy when I remember on that highway the one that made it possible to connect Dalmatia with Zagreb, Ivica Račan. It may also be time for the state road A1 to bear the name of Ivica Račana, which allowed Dalmatia to be connected to Zagreb. They could have done that a lot before him, he did, I'm proud, that he raised his salary, he raised his pensions. Ma'am, don't throw it away, please. You have to explain, you explain to people in Croatia where you get money for Mercedes, where you get money for expensive watches, explain to people where you get money for luxury villas while on the other hand people are hugging in debt, sinking into debt slavery, sending their children abroad. As they rot in poverty. Well, you have to explain it. And you have to explain what you have against an increase in wages for more than 700 thousand people in Croatia. What do you have against it? Why not support our proposal if your family values are first as a Christian foreigner? So why don't you support these Croatian families? They're 700 grand. Why don't you let these families have a bigger income? Why should these families not have 330 or 500 or 660 or 1000 kuna more domestic budgets next month? Why don't you let these families maybe not have to send their children to Ireland next month? So help the families, that's what we're talking about here. If you could help with the chain of commerce, to deepen your profits, so let's help people who work for small wages. If you could raise the salaries to the richest in Croatia, so let's help those who have low wages, at least have 330 kn more. If our proposal is not good for you, then make your suggestion, do something. If you don't think it's necessary to raise wages and raise the standard of citizens, then let's hear it from you. Let's hear what needs to be done. Just don't work like a pain in the ass, nothing. And say the government will do a lot of good things and we'll be surprised. Well, we get surprised every day. Every day, a new affair. So I'm surprised when the day comes that some new affair of the rulings doesn't come up. Don't surprise us like that, please. In the name of reason, support that we give people 330 and 500 kn more wages next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144256	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144257	Thank you, dear colleague Bernardic, for this conclusion, and simply, you can see that you have not caused a little reaction, nor does Mr. Secretary of State obviously have some tasks tomorrow, so he's working out... statistics, so we'd like to hear some statistics, positive, as far as wages are concerned, and it would be much easier for us to either retire or let's say that people from Croatia don't leave. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These types of statistics unfortunately do not exist in Croatia. In Croatia, only negative statistics and people wonder when some positive trends will take place that would allow our people to live better. So, it's unfortunate that things like this aren't discussed until it's a direct session of the Parliament, while two MPs of 77.8 are most in HS and that this simply doesn't get to the ears of the one who's most responsible in Republic of Croatia, and this is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic [[Intruder: Thank you.]] who has no hearing at all about the opposition's proposals [[Thank you very much.]] Only until the end of the sentence [[We want 15 seconds, 20 or 25 more than you can?]] Just to the point. [[No, every time, it's like that every time.]] It would be good for Andrej Plenkovic to hear this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144258	Thank you. We will conclude the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue work tomorrow at 9.30 and the first point will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Japan on the elimination of double taxation of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion and avoidance of tax payments, second reading, P.Z. No. 646. I wish you a good night. Session interrupted at 9:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-06-13-0.u144259	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, first reading, P.Z. No. 460, is proposed by the Club of Representatives of the SDP. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is not adopted, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 73 for, 3 abstentions and 22 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
