ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146373	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs and MPs, I would just like to remind myself that the applicable Credit Institutions Act regulates the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, then supervisory of their business and the conditions under which legal persons established outside the Republic of Croatia can provide banking or financial services in the Republic of Croatia. This Proposal for a Law supplementing the Credit Institutions Act provides for conditions for the conclusion of the so-called so-called Act. close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank pursuant to Article 7. Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 October 2013 on the allocation of certain tasks to the European Central Bank relating to prudential supervision policies of credit institutions. In fact, by concluding an EU accession contract, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to introducing the EUR as an official monetary unit when the conditions are met, of course. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB developed a strategy for introducing the EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia made by its decision on 10 May last year. As regards the establishment of close cooperation itself, the Council Regulation provides that close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national competent authority shall be established by a decision of the European Central Bank when all the conditions laid down are met and one of the conditions is that in a Member State whose currency is not EUR before the approval of a request for close cooperation shall be adopted by all relevant national rules to ensure the implementation of close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national competent authority of a Member State or in our case, that is the CNB. Since the date of application of the decision of the European Central Bank, the CNB shall implement all guidelines or requirements and shall take all measures relating to credit institutions requested by the European Central Bank. In order to bring closer to the ultimate objective or to introduce the EUR as a legal means of payment to the Republic of Croatia and to enter the banking union, it is necessary first to allow for the close cooperation of the CNB and the European Central Bank under Article 7. Council Regulations. With regard to this proposal, the applicable law is complemented by the provisions providing for conditions for close cooperation, which include the obligation to supply to the European Central Bank all information and documentation on credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia which it will need to carry out a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is then the obligation of the CNB to implement all instructions, guidelines and requests of the European Central Bank as from the date of application of the decision establishing close cooperation. In addition, the obligation of the CNB to adopt measures relating to credit institutions requested by the European Central Bank and of course the direct application of the legal acts adopted by the European Central Bank pursuant to Council Regulation 1024/2013 is included. This law also regulates that the provisions of the laws relating to close cooperation cease to apply on the day of the closure of close cooperation or on the day on which the Republic of Croatia ceases to be a Member State. What does that mean? In cases where the CNB as a national competent authority disagrees with the decisions of the European Central Bank, it will inform the Government and propose to submit a request to the European Central Bank for the closure of close cooperation with the current effect. Following the termination of close cooperation, the legal acts of the European Central Bank adopted pursuant to Regulation 1024 shall apply to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, as regards the procedural part, in accordance with the decision of the European Central Bank of 31 January 2014 on close cooperation with the national competent authorities of a participating Member State whose currency is not EUR, it is prescribed that the European Central Bank will establish close cooperation on the basis of a request from a Member State whose currency is not the euro whose currency will inter alia commit to the adoption of relevant national rules which apply to the request and which will ensure the implementation of close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national competent authority of a participating Member State whose currency is not the EURo. Therefore, on 27 May this year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a request to the European Central Bank for close cooperation to which this law is annexed, a legislative proposal that must be in line with the opinion of the European Central Bank, which provides for conditions for the establishment of such close cooperation. And the information for yesterday was published on the website of the European Central Bank by their confirmation of the compliance of this text of the law. It is therefore necessary to provide a legal basis for the implementation of a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia by the European Central Bank, and an foreseeable comprehensive assessment could begin this autumn. It is a step which is an integral part of the procedure for the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the course mechanism, so-called "the Republic of Croatia". RN2, and then the euro area. Namely, the Republic of Croatia is also present at the same time, wants to enter the mechanism of close cooperation and the course mechanism so-called. RN2. Following this, everything I mentioned in this law is intended to ensure the implementation of Council Regulation 2000 1024/2013 and EU Regulation 468/2014 of the European Central Bank of 16 April 2014 establishing a framework for cooperation within a single supervisory mechanism between the National Bank and the European Central Bank. Therefore, a regulatory precondition for the establishment of close cooperation is necessary also include a day of power for the European Central Bank to carry out a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions referred to in Article before a close cooperation is established. Versus 7th century 2nd. b. the EU Council Regulation, which shall include an insight into all documentation and information on credit institutions. Under the applicable law, the European Central Bank has such authority, but according to credit institutions for which the competent authority is consolidated. Therefore, the European Central Bank is now directly overseeing certain EU groups that also belong to the Croatian credit institutions, and these are the following major institutions in the Republic of Croatia, namely Zagrebačka Banka, Privredna Banka, Erste & Steiermeerkische banka, Raiffeisen Austria and Sberbank. Since the size of significant credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia is already under the consolidated supervision of the European Central Bank as a consolidated supervisory body, and all key decisions are made by the National Bank on the basis of joint decisions reached by supervisors' colleges, this legislative proposal is estimated to have a minor direct impact on credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia which will be selected by the European Central Bank in a sample to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146374	I thank the Secretary of State, we're going to the replicas, we have a total of seven, first order of business, comrade Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146375	Thank you, Your Honor. So we are aware that this strategy, which means it was adopted by the Treaty on the Accession of the EU, but we did not discuss this strategy for the introduction of the EUR in HS, there was no public debate, and you are now the basis of this strategy that is not discussed, so you are going with legislation, with the adoption of legislation. I believe that this is absolutely unacceptable and that we need a public debate on the introduction of the EUR, that they should give the court of Croatian citizens, means not about the introduction of the EUR itself, but about the fact that the Republic of Croatia is now ready to introduce the EUR, is this the moment?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146376	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146377	Here, thank you for asking the honourable Mr. MP, I just wanted to mention as you yourself said about signing the Treaty of Accession in the EU. 5. It is determined that and we have committed ourselves as a state to introduce the EUR when conditions are created for this. That contract was ratified here in HS, before that was conducted a referendum in terms of entering... , 78% of the population voted in favour of EU entry and one of the conditions was to introduce it as a coin in the Republic of Croatia and the euro, the strategy itself developed analyses of the economic benefits and costs of the introduction of the EUR, and the presented activities and policies to be taken to introduce the EUR, so I would only say that the strategy is an implementing act in relation to what has been adopted and ratified by all Member States prior to EU entry. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146378	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146379	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, the introduction of the EUR without a public debate, and ultimately the introduction of the EUR when a public debate is held, as it is said, is not in the HS either, and also when you talk about EU accession and agreements with the EU, you need to see how many voters have come out then. Our citizens and how much they voted to join the EU, and this is about the question of where the debate would ultimately take place after the public debate, after the debate in HS, however, the people would ask a question. And it wouldn't be the first case, you know that Hungary also signed agreements with the EU, that it was an EU member and that it carried out a referendum on the ban on the sale of agricultural land to foreigners. Therefore, nothing new about the EUR, the only one who can decide on the exchange of currency is the Croatian people and no one else, a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146380	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146381	Here, thank you, Mr. MP, for the sake of public information, we will repeat that by the Treaty of Accession of the EU, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to introducing the EUR when conditions are created for this, and that this is all discussed in this House and ultimately the contract has been ratified here and in all Member States. As far as the strategy itself is concerned, it was led by the Ministry of Economy and the strategy was at public consultation, here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146382	It's the third up, fellow Alexic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146383	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is very simple to bring through the night the regulations it must because it requires the EU to do so and because we have signed something in a contract and that is fine, I know we have to do it. But what we can do as a sovereign state and not do is some of the following, for example, We have a situation that banks have robbed 200 000, 300,000 maybe even families on unfair interest, we haven't stopped that robbery, we haven't returned their money to people, we're forcing people to go to courts and get it settled in court. The second thing, we let scavenger agencies make huge money on debts, the bank sells a bad 20-30% loan, and then the agency makes money unconscious. We didn't get them into the laws as necessary, the agency when it takes over the debt, it's not under the jurisdiction of the CNB, and it should be. Work on it, it is a very important issue for the Croatian people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146384	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146385	Here, thank you very much for asking the question, in essence more digression in the context of the adoption of legal frameworks and regulations, the EU directive, I suppose, in that sense, and your comment on the implementation of certain legal regulations and their quality from supervisory authorities, I believe that everyone in his competence should know what he is doing and do, and if these regulations are not sufficient to correct them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146386	The fourth one's up, Comrade Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146387	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, you said that in these 5 banks, that they are already in some form of supervisory, I wonder if you have any opinion of the CNB about what will happen to small banks in the Republic of Croatia, whether you have such an analysis of whether they will be affected by this supervisory review by the European Central Bank where they will have to adapt probably their share of capital, the assessment of their quality of assets, or whether the CNB has provided you with any documents about what will happen to small banks in the Republic, which is mostly financed by small economies. I'm just curious about that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146388	Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146389	Thank you very much. Well, as we were saying in the introduction, this strategy was worked by the government along with the CNB. Their catharsis of small banks passed before the introduction of Basel 1, Basel 2 in terms of risk management systems. And as you remember, all the small banks that failed to achieve capital adequacy either joined another bank or otherwise, are no longer on the market. As far as this implementation is concerned, I believe that, as well as large banks, small banks are obliged to implement supervisory measures issued by the National Bank and which I do seem to be, if I did not mention, those which the European Central Bank will implement significantly do not deviate at all from those measures already implemented by the CNB. Therefore, the new requirements that would be made by the European Central Bank on a sample that may be and small banks will implement the CNB and will be directly related to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146390	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146391	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, despite your explanation and everything you've said, everything stands and everything has been correct since 2013 it's been falling here, citizens' confidence in the introduction of the euro, actually supporting citizens. Although most citizens believe the euro should be introduced, it falls significantly unlike the countries in the Eurozone where the support for the monetary union is growing. Do you think, however, you have come here and since I am following you as an economic expert and you approach this issue from an economic point of view, do you think that this is to some extent a political issue and why the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be afraid to ask the citizens what they think about it, which is why it would not go to the referendum and whether there is this fear in you as a member of the Government because there is still an impression which we see from the results of the survey, for example. in Slavonia, however, that some elite is pushing the citizens and the citizens are very little aware of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146392	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146393	Well, thank you very much. The answer is very simple, what is economical and logical and prudent, it is prudent for any citizen and people will always give theirs ultimately whatever we want. I just wanted to say that the people said that in a referendum when they voted with 67% to join the EU and that contract included this package of commitments that we have made to ourselves in terms of the introduction of the euro and not only whether we want to join the Eurozone but we must meet the requirements before that. That's very important. So it's the people who will eventually make a decision if we suspect the one from 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146394	Comrade Zekanovic, isolate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146395	Well, dear Secretary of State, I don't think you're speaking correctly. Have you heard of a Swedish lesson? You didn't hear. Here I am going to teach you a Swedish lesson. So Sweden also had an obligation to introduce the euro and it did not introduce it, and it did not introduce it because it did not introduce exactly what happened a few days ago in Croatia, did not enter the European exchange rate mechanism, which is voluntary and has not yet entered, has not yet entered and still has no euro. And that's the point. So a few days ago, the Ministry of Finance voluntarily, of course with the blessing of Prime Minister Plenkovic, sent an official letter that we wanted to enter the ERM2 European Course Mechanism and we didn't have to. So Croatia is 4.5 days old, it introduced the euro and did not ask Croatian citizens, it was not discussed in the Croatian Parliament. So we have no obligation to introduce the euro, Sweden is the best example. Please comment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146396	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146397	So, thank you very much, so the commentary is simple, I may repeat myself several times, all of which, the steps that are now being done, are the result of the EU accession treaty and the commitments that we have made there. Before that, the people were in a referendum, I'm not saying that the people can't make that decision again, but we as a state committed ourselves to introducing the euro, we wanted to admit it to ourselves now or we didn't want to admit it. As for the Swedish or other instruction, or the Czech Republic, Slovakia, where examples have already been cited where they have not yet introduced or otherwise held to the exchange rate policy and in this way want to stimulate their own economy, I just want to say that the Republic of Slovenia is also during the former state and is now extremely Eurosyrin both in its obligations and in its activities. So that part in terms of the influence of the kuna currency policy, given the extremely large sources in the euro, is almost negligible. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146398	And the last replica of my colleague Mršić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146399	Mr. Secretary of State, it is clear that the sovereignty is monetaryally limited because our kuna is tied to the euro and what Mr. Zekanovic says is only for politics because sovereigns swear to the kuna but the kuna has long since long since long since left, at the moment when it was tied to the euro. However, I would ask one question here, given that the strategy was not in the Assembly and that there is one question in the strategy how entering the euro system will apply to our salaries. In Slovenia, when the euro was introduced, 5 thousand tolars were somewhere around 1000 euros, and that was good, but then there was a problem with compliance with the euro zone with the criteria and prices and their wages fell. I am interested in whether there are mechanisms in the euro introduction strategy that will make the scenarios in Slovenia impossible in Croatia, which means that by introducing the euro, we start to get paid for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146400	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146401	Thank you very much. So again, the EU's accession treaty containing the obligation to introduce the euro was ratified in this House of Commons. And secondly, as far as salary levels are concerned, you'll agree that it always depends on the economy and the strength of the economy. So the entry and conversion of the kuna if we reach that stage in terms of the euro there are also those master criteria with the rest and that rate of inflation in relation to the lowest inflation in the Member States where that inflation can be 1.5% higher than those Member States. So it pays itself certainly hard to be conditioned by entering the Eurozone if it does not have the strength of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146402	We've come to an end with replicas. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the SDP, respected counterpart Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146403	Thank you very much, Mr President, once again a respected state secretary with an associate, today before us a proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act, as the Proposer has said, by joining the EU, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to introducing the EUR as an official currency when the conditions are met. The government is 2018. made a decision on the strategy for the introduction of the EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, and the next step this was a few days ago and the Republic of Croatia also sent a request to the members of the Euro area... EU institutions, a letter of intention to enter the European Course Mechanism, thus taking the first formal step towards participating in the EREM2 that precedes the introduction of the EUR as an official currency. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the letter of intention of the members, action plans have been submitted to the EU institutions describing reforms that the Republic of Croatia will implement when introducing EREM2. So, in agreement with the European institutions, the Republic of Croatia committed itself in a letter of intent to implementing reforms from 6 areas, and today the first area, as I understand it, is that, firstly, what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent to all EU members, and that is in that first point what the Government has published, this is further strengthening the supervisory supervision of the banking system by establishing close cooperation between the CNB and the European Central Bank, this is this document of 4-5 articles, which is listed for this close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the CNB. Point 2 is to strengthen the framework for the translation of macroeconomic prudential policy by introducing an explicit measuring mandate aimed at borrowers. The third is strengthening the framework to prevent money laundering. The fourth is to improve the system of collection of processing and publication of statistics. The fifth is to improve governance in the public sector, and to reduce administrative and financial burdens on the economy. It's a six-point package that we're discussing today's first point. Therefore, in order to bring closer to the ultimate objective, the introduction of the EUR as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia and the entry into the banking union need first to establish means close cooperation. According to Art. Seven. Regulation of the EU Council No This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. on the allocation of certain tasks to the European Central Bank in relation to prudential supervision policies of credit institutions. On 27 May 2019, the Republic of Croatia sent a request to the European Central Bank for close cooperation, accompanied by this legislative proposal as it provides the conditions for such close cooperation. The first is to provide, meaning the legal basis for a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia by the European Central Bank and, as is mentioned here, a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions, etc. is planned. ... means an assessment of the quality of the property which is as far as it seems to me here already said that it should begin this fall in that part. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, it is important to say that there is, already once the European Central Bank has been doing a quality check on assets, credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia during 2013. According to the recommendations of the European Banking Supervisory Authority... and the European Central Bank. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the above-mentioned data check is that the adjustment of the quality of assets and credit institutions has relatively little impact on the capital ratio of the covered credit institutions and banking system as a whole. So, the examined banks, as well as the banking system of the Republic of Croatia, have a high capitalisation rate that provides credit institutions with adequate protection from potential unpredictable losses and provides them with the necessary stress resistance. So, what did the European Central Bank do in other words? You know that when and when that bank crisis occurred in 2008. and when a banking union began to form where, in fact, it was said that more banks would not save taxpayers or citizens, that a certain stress test would mean the quality of the assets of business banks, and that ultimately those creditors themselves who are also capital owners in these banks would, in the future, bear themselves if a financial institution or a credit institution were to get into trouble that this would no longer go on the burden of taxpayers and they had already made a certain assessment of the quality of the assets. Why? Because although the Republic of Croatia has harmonised normatives all the time and documents related to the European Central Bank or the Croatian State with the EU, they once again wanted to implement them to see in relation to the Credit Institutions Act which defines the quality of the assets of our banks, the European Central Bank wanted to check again through their so-called stress tests, meaning if certain disturbances occur on the market, what will be the quality of the banks or if any disturbances that might occur on the market, and we have them before 2.g. Now the major blow was Agrokor, which would mean the total capitalisation of banks or the entire banking system, whether this crisis that could happen in the economy could be passed on to banks. What the State Secretary actually said was that this analysis showed that the high, very high capitalisation and burden of that capital somewhere around 20% in the Republic of Croatia is some capitalisation and that is one of the stocks that we can much faster meet certain conditions than these conditions, such as when we know that fiscal consolidation, lower public debt, lower inflation, is certainly one of the conditions that this capitalisation which certainly is the RH which, unlike other European countries that do not have such capitalisation of the banking sector, will certainly give stronger support that this, an assessment of the quality of the assets, is going to end very well and that it will be one of the first points that are likely to meet Croatia very quickly when it joins the mechanism and EREM2. What was said here, and that's why I wanted to write it in fact in this document because this is exactly one document that means when we enter the EU, this exchange mechanism, some document in which tomorrow will also be looked at when it is, I thought there was a little more information that the Secretary of State itself said about these stressful tests that have already been done and that some assessments of the National Bank would end it as soon as possible or what impact it will be on small banks, regardless of what I agree with you that they have been through their one catharsis since 2008 when they have also been affected by a certain part of the financial crisis. I think it's a good idea for the CNB, if not in this document, to actually publish these documents that the more we have these documents written in some form that we know because still investing in the euro isn't such a simple process and that this documentation that the CNB has certainly shared with the government because here the government defends and some documents that the CNB actually implements, so that we have what will be that impact on the banks but ultimately also on the economy. Why am I talking about both the economy and the Croatian citizens? So we know that the European Central Bank then made certain advertising of one part of the Croatian banks' assets, several billion kunas which have defined that they can't tell you that they can't be in your placement and you have to pay more than that part of the reservation, or a certain larger cost, but in the end it didn't affect the total banking activity or the total capitalisation for this reason because 4,5 large banks are consolidated at Croatia level or already in consolidated balance sheets of their nuts within the euro area so that Croatia won't have any more problems because most of the banking system is already covered and the procedures of its queens that are already in the euro area, have to apply the appropriate use of their branches in Croatia. However, what is actually read here in the media, was good in fact and that the secretary of state or the CNB and very clearly say what is going to happen, what change is going to happen in Croatia, which is that it will change the rules say that the ratio of credit and collateral is concerned. So tomorrow, when some company, some company comes looking for a certain credit request and we as citizens, when you buy a certain property or go to a job, for now there are certain conditions between approved credit and collateral, this segment only states that there will be changes in the rules and that these conditions will be served, which means other words whether there will be fewer credits available and Croatian entrepreneurship and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, since we know that small and medium-sized enterprises are not so capitalised, there are no more collaterals that could be invested in doing their job, and I think it would be good, and since the CNB has that information, that it knows what the current ratio of that collateral and these loans is, that it knows what impact will be on the small economy. Also, the ratio of loans and the income of debtors, it will also be said to change and change the regulation between the ratios and the credit of the debtors' income, should also be very clear what these ratios are now and what it requires of us the European Central Bank or to say very simply if these ratios are still harmonised, let them publicly say that they are harmonised and there will be no more pressure on Croatian citizens. It is also said that the length of the credit, depreciation criteria and other requirements aimed at reducing credit risk will be changed. I think that in this work it should certainly be in some document if it is already in the media and in some government documents on both the government and the CNB's pages, if these changes and changes to the rules are already being discussed, I think it would be good and quality to explain what will change this to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and Croatian citizens, by adopting this law, or by investing the European Central Bank more strongly into the supervisory supervision of the Croatian banking sector. These are some conditions that we must meet, however, and which on the other hand will be more closely supervised by the European Central Bank by banking and credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. However, what would also be part of what we are talking about today is the introduction of the euro, on the CNB's pages, there have also been talks here about the introduction of the euro, the CNB twice conducted a survey of citizens on the introduction of the euro through the IPSOS agency. I think these results are very interesting, especially in February 2019 and August 2018. What did the Croatian citizens say? I think it is very important that no matter what is said here all the time that we have adopted some rules and by entering the EU alone and where we have accepted all these mechanisms, that it is certainly important for both the government and the CNB, to answer these questions that we are going to ask today, that in the future and citizens, when they enter one such entry or accept the euro itself, they will be able to discuss better when they make any decision whether they are for or against the euro. At present, the mood is not exactly for one such important, I one so important, taking such an important decision, is not exactly on the side of the government or the CNB because only 51.7% of citizens said the euro should be introduced. 51.7% of citizens. In August 2018 it was 51,2. So in this period 0.5% of citizens said they wanted the euro, but there is a need to hear the voice of others, even 40.4% said they did not make a positive statement for the introduction of the euro, and if we see that part of the citizens of August 20018 when that part of the citizens was 37.5, it now came to 44.4 that this is not a negligible part of the citizens who said we do not want the EUR, 40% of Croatian citizens, while 7.9% does not know. What is also interesting from the CNB survey itself which has actually published on its site is that those who have made a positive statement for the introduction of EUR 13.2% think that the EURo should be introduced only in 10 years, 13.2% of these positive ones, and only 17% said they should be introduced immediately. Which means that Croatian citizens still have very little information on what it means, what it means for the economy, what it means for their incomes, what it means to raise prices or what it means for their living standards. They are also citizens who said that the introduction of the EUR has a negative impact of as many as 48% of Croatian citizens said it has a negative effect that the introduction of the EUR will have a negative impact. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146404	Thank you. Now let's go to the HDZ Representatives' Club, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146405	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues, a law that is technically but also evident because of the public's interest and because of the very subject and in today's debate, it will cause both controversy and different opinions, and it may be unfortunate that we in our Rules of Procedure have such legislative proposals as regards monetary policies and central banks in principle must be proposed by the Government, i.e. The Ministry of Finance because I think it would be ideal for this agenda point to be proposed by the CNB. And all of this that we are discussing here today is unfortunately due to the lack of information, there are too many general and flat-rate assessments, and since Croatia has had two severe banking crises, we have had a case of Swiss, and then there is a national "who are grizzly and frightened by snakes", so that the reaction of Croatian citizens to this topic is certainly very careful especially for those who have been killed in those two banking crises, you remember today there are also judicial disputes in some banks where Croatian citizens are looking for their savings roles that have not been achieved, and so is counterpart Alexic here constantly reminds us of loans in Swiss, and the logical thing is when someone now starts to speak negatively about the EUR that the reaction of Croatian citizens is the same. So I say, it would be good if he were here today, he can propose this law along with a representative of the Ministry of Finance and a representative of the CNB, but later on, I think there are a lot of agenda points in this assembly where we could actually touch these topics. Here's just the other day we had a plan and a statistical research programme, one of the 6 points he mentioned, and a colleague named Lalovac is among other qualities of the statistics that Croatia delivers to Eurostat. So these are all the things you can talk about as part of something because it's not the introduction of the EUR, only someone said we'll introduce it and that's it. In order for Croatia to enter the euro zone, Croatia must meet a series of conditions and much stricter conditions than some others had to because we are viewed differently. As was Croatia's far more difficult path to enter and negotiations to join the EU, I must honestly say that there were no important matters of agreement between the ruling coalition and the opposition at the time, and even at the head of the monitoring and implementation committee, it was likely that some of the issues could not have been solved that way. So it's a very, very complex process. However, when we are going at each other on a flat-rate basis today, let's see if we need to or should not see the percentage of the savings of Croatian citizens is tied to the EURo. Well, nobody forced citizens to put the EURo or to say that they were turning their kunas into EURo and that their savings would be in EUR's. The same percentage of loans taken by Croatian companies and Croatian citizens are also tied to the EURo. The third thing, and that's why he might have been a representative of the CNB, what it costs to maintain a stable exchange rate, so he hasn't been in Croatia since '93. the year that the four-four-four stabilisation programme practically started, so it was brought down to 3.75 and later when it was a trade mark conversion in this in EUR 2002, then the three-75 was converted to 7.5 and that was practically the first kuna course towards the EUR. Today, that course is different. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues, have you ever wondered about those three courses you have, shopping, middle and sales, so when you find yourself in some kind of transaction, and you have kunas, and you need to pay in Euros that you take and how much you basically lose, would that be if we had the EUR-o? Thus, a series of questions that can be discussed and can be discussed that are life - and - day. Also, these 6 conditions that Croatia has committed to do are now asking the question of all those who are against Croatia entering the euro zone, are they ready to carry out these reform procedures that we have to carry out if we want stronger economic growth, if we want a better life in Croatia whether we are going towards the euro zone or not to go towards the euro zone. So, just a few things is preventing money laundering, are you to remove difficulties in business and severe parafiscal imposings or for more efficient management of public enterprises. So let's ask ourselves if we're up for it and we have to do it if we want to become part of the Eurozone. And no one is against discussing the euro. We have accepted one document, and it is in the referendum that Croatia wants to join the EU, among other things inside, and it says that as soon as we are ready and able to do so, and when our macroeconomic indicators are such that we can enter the Eurozone, we will introduce the euro. Neither does anyone in the House forbids us to discuss it. I say there's a string of dots. Here, we have a report point, a semi-annual financial report submitted by the CNB, a series of these questions that will be asked here today can be asked to the governor of the CNB and he can answer them and that is just one of the minor segments of the debate on what it means to introduce the euro into the Republic of Croatia. Also, the logical thing was, Lalovac said something about this, which is the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia means for the banking sector, which means for citizens and entrepreneurs, future users of credit, and what this ultimately means for citizens as consumer products and services produced by the Croatian economy. So that's all the questions to be answered. These are issues that should be publicly communicated primarily by the CNB and then by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to raise many questions in the air with Croatian citizens at the moment, I repeat as a result of the fear of those three economic crises and credits in Switzerland, to which these questions are answered then this percentage of whether we are in favour of entering the Eurozone or we are not going to be different. Why? Because if it weren't, look, colleagues and colleagues, for the last few years you can raise credit in kunas. You don't have to commit to a loan or anything else for the euro if you don't want to. However, due to the conditions and everything, a lot of citizens are doing this exactly the opposite. So this was like a small introduction to these technical changes to this law, so what does the Ministry of Finance actually propose, the CNB to this bill? Therefore, the conditions for close cooperation between the National Bank and the European Central Bank on the allocation of specific tasks to the European Central Bank concerning the prudential supervision policy of credit institutions are ensured. Now the key question, colleagues and colleagues, is how many banking sectors are currently in the hands of foreigners, more than 90%, they are in a consolidated balance sheet of their groups and ultimately you, if you are looking at the Euorphian Central Bank, and more than all the owners of these banks are members of the European Central Bank and in supervision of these groups are in principle controlled by Croatian banks. And so there's not much to avoid. Another thing the CNB has tried all these years to bring Croatia's legislation into line with and in line with EU legislation. And the other thing, regardless of who talked, after the 2009 crisis, the Croatian financial sector is one of the few that did not have any major earthquakes, far from having had good credits that became bad rankings and losses, etc., but the Croatian financial sector and banking and not banking, it remained stable, it survived and finally I will talk about it more later when you see property and all Croatian banks then I don't think we need to break our heads a lot. Therefore, the Credit Institutions Act is complemented by provisions providing conditions for close cooperation, which include the obligation to supply to the European Central Bank all information and documentation on credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia which it will need to carry out a comprehensive assessment of credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is the obligation of the CNB to implement all instructions and guidelines and requests of the European Central Bank as from the date of application of the decision establishing close cooperation and to adopt measures relating to credit institutions if requested by the European Central Bank. Direct application of the acts adopted by the European Central Bank pursuant to Council Regulation (EU) 2015/24 of 2013. The key provision in this, a few articles proposed by these amendments to the law, is a provision that also determines the conduct of the CNB in cases where it disagrees with the decisions of the European Central Bank. Therefore, in such circumstances, the CNB will inform the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it may submit a request to the European Central Bank for the closure of close cooperation with the current effect. And I think it's very important and very interesting that today and in replicas and probably in discussions no one will mention this provision. So if Croatia considers at some point that the European Central Bank is asking for something that is unacceptable for Croatia, the CNB informs the Government of this and can automatically step out of this... Therefore, the measures proposed, taken, on 27 May, the Republic of Croatia sent a request to the European Central Bank for close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the CNB on the performance of the tasks of supervisory and credit institutions under the single supervisory mechanism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The request is also accompanied by this legislative proposal. It is a step that is an integral part of the procedure for Croatia's entry into the European Course Mechanism. What is very important is what this regulation achieves for citizens or entrepreneurs. It has therefore been assessed that this legislative proposal has a minor direct impact on credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia, which the European Central Bank will choose to sample, to carry out a comprehensive assessment of the banking system of the Republic of Croatia. It is a study of banks consisting of checking the quality of their assets and testing their resilience to shocks, supervisory processes in conditions of close cooperation will not be significantly different from the existing system and given that my time is slowly running out, allow me only a few details about what the banking system of the Republic of Croatia is today and how much its financial power and strength has been moving for the last few years. Therefore, according to CNB data presented on the aggregated basis, in 2008, a growth in bank assets of 4.4% was recorded and at the end of 2018 the total assets of banks amounted to HRK 408 billion. Half of this property is the savings of Croatian citizens, and we must not forget that when we discuss in this Assembly topics that are tangled by credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The gross profit of banks in 2008 was 5.64 billion kuna, which amounts to 44.4% growth compared to 2017. However, it should be known that in 2017 the profits of Croatian banks fell significantly due to the situation in Agrokor, due to the write-offs of those loans and the total total capital of banks amounted to 22.9% and in 2018 improved the quality of credit and the proportion of bad loans, so the risk credit in Group B and C in total loans is only 9.8%. At the end of 2018, 25 credit institutions, 21 banks and 4 residential savings banks were operating in the Republic of Croatia. So this is with a report that we will have mandatory pension funds where the property of compulsory pensions is more than 100 billion kunas, practically those who control and manage 300 billion Croatian citizens' money, so our responsibility in the debate when we talk about it has to be very much the responsibility of the CNB and I end up with it. and the Ministry of Finance is to give detailed information to Croatian citizens, which means the introduction of the euro [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] in all segments of the Republic of Croatia. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146406	We are now going to the third debate, the Most Independent Lists, the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146407	Thank you. Fellow Members and colleagues, therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing to the Croatian Parliament the law on the basis of the euro introduction strategy as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia, we are aware that this strategy was adopted by the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to which the euro has been committed as an official monetary unit of the Republic of Croatia when the conditions are met, and I think it is a key part of this debate. Nevertheless, we believe that the strategy does not have sufficient legitimacy for the urgent introduction of new legislation because it has neither been discussed by the Croatian Parliament nor the current government plans to substrate a plan for the introduction of the euro to parliament, which should be responsible and neither for Croatian citizens nor citizens in the form of a referendum issue. So this continues the practice of non-critical adoption of the provisions of the European Parliament and of the Council Directives into Croatian legislation and without real autonomous debate on their meaning. So, by respecting all the facts and circumstances stemming from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, we also take this opportunity to point out the absurdity of copying the provisions of European directives and quasi discussions on their content in the Croatian Parliament. If we cannot decide that already in this House, then in the European Parliament, it is necessary for a simpler and more comprehensible procedure under which or European directives will automatically apply without additional bureaucratic entanglements in the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament will have a sovereign and autonomous right to decide what provisions will apply in the Republic. A new agreement by EU Member States is needed because this is how we duplicate the legal procedure without any added value for citizens. We believe that on all issues related to the introduction of the euro in Croatia, a broad consensus should be reached with a substantive public debate, not that, under the cereals in the emergency procedure, an important law that significantly changes the role and independence of the CNB for which, so for this law, some 70 people will be so many, at noon without any reading or thinking about what this law is making, raise their hand and later wonder what this wicked European Commission is now sending to us for application. So instead of taking a position as a civilised state on this important issue, we will again bring a riot to a public space in which the opposition will call for a referendum and the authorities will laugh sourly and rejoice that the media are now talking about introducing the euro instead of changing the land, Mercedes in the courtyards, cheap apartments and similar interests of our ministers. So we have already pointed out several times that this government attitude towards the Croatian Parliament is inappropriate and at the border of violation of the constitutional order but unfortunately there is no institution in Croatia that could address this problem. Croatia no longer has a strong institution. Croatia is unfortunately and we must admit, there is not even a functioning parliament that would be competent to call the government to account because most parliamentary deputies are not here to represent the citizens, to represent the people who gave them the vote, but only by means of instructions from the Ban Courts to keep their benefits and prevent the people from deciding on our fate. I wonder if it makes any more sense to participate in the work of a House that is not in a state of the Constitution, means to fulfil the Constitution of a certain authority. And in the end it means what is the short view of MOST is that I am not listening and I saw that my colleague Alexic spoke but I saw what he wrote on social networks, it is clear that Croatia has committed itself, means to introduce the euro but it is not specified when and it can be at the moment when Croatia means the assessment that it is best for her. And we see that the government is breaking it over its knees, that Croatia is not ready and that is our position, that is, the attitude and most citizens that Croatia is not ready to introduce the euro at the moment and that regardless of what decision it is, what decision it will be to conduct a public debate and that it is necessary to ask the citizens if this is the moment. Is this the moment for the introduction of the euro? And I think that is one reasonable position, a position that has support in both the Croatian people and among Croatian citizens, and unfortunately, the government decided to break it over its knees, without public debate, without debate here in the Croatian Parliament, because here are the laws that are part of this Euro Introduction Strategy without us deciding, without Croatian citizens deciding, without the professional public discussing whether this is the moment. Here is a brief view of the Most and what we find problematic about proposing such laws if it means part of that strategy and without taking a stand on this important issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146408	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Tomislav Sagar's turn in front of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146409	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. Here's first of all to make my personal attitude very clear, I hope that's the attitude of a colleague from the club. Personally, I believe that the introduction of the euro into the Republic of Croatia cannot bring harm to the Republic of Croatia but what I also question about people I am talking to is that I consider myself to be a mediocrely informed person about the introduction of the euro because I do not know all the circumstances or anything that can happen afterwards. I suppose, for a reason, it's not even known to the representatives of the ministry or the CNB. We can deal with the experiences of the countries that introduced the euro. I suppose, therefore, that many in the Republic of Croatia do not know and can't argue until the end of what will happen, so I am expressing some concern because the poll has also shown, the secretary of state probably saw that only 1/5 of the citizens in the Republic of Croatia have expressed the view that it is very well and well informed about the introduction of the euro. Everyone else is from mediocre to uninformed citizens. 40% of citizens in the Republic of Croatia are very weak in this matter informed. What will happen to the introduction of the euro when it comes to wages, pensions, in general their purchasing power and whether the introduction of the euro will cause the decline of salaries and the fall of Croatian citizens' standards. These are the key questions that plague them. The next issue they are plagued by is, of course, the ratio of the kuna and the euro during the conversion at the moment when the euro is introduced. What we can read today in the media because yesterday in Brussels, a letter of intent of the Republic of Croatia was accepted, and what we can read is that the plan or intention is to introduce the euro by 2023. So there's a very, very short deadline for this very extensive process. And the secretary of state in response to my line, you said the key thing, and I think it's the most important thing. This is not about me having to actively inform citizens, that action should be taken or very, very clear and very active public debates, this is about making very active and very clear steps to prepare the Republic of Croatia to accept the euro as its currency. I think a colleague named Lalovac listed these six conditions. It seems most important to me, too, to me, that these are actually building two conditions that are being set, which is to manage the public sector and reduce the financial burden on the Croatian economy. We can ask a question like this, which means 250, let's round that number or almost a quarter of a million Croatian citizens, which means the introduction of the euro if they are currently blocked? What does the introduction of the euro mean for them? Watch out for a quarter of a million Croatian citizens are in a blockade. The number was, of course, reduced by the last law of forgiveness of debts from last year, it is also significantly higher but the vast number of people in Croatia have, are able, have blocked accounts and also a huge number of Croatian citizens who have paid lower than the median salary, not than the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, the average fell... lower than the media pay. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What does the introduction of the euro mean for them? Is it a problem in Croatia that we often talk about the heavy tax burden and the big tax wedge of our salary? Or is it a problem that employers simply don't want to pay more wages because they're putting profits in their pockets? The analyses that have been done, which have shown, and especially for these salaries, I'm talking about the lowest wages, the wages that are lower than the median that neither of them is true. So neither is this tax burden too high for low wages, lower wages, because that tax wedge is very low for lowest wages and on the other hand neither employers have too much to gain because it has shown everything and when they freed all the profits, they put it into wages so that these salaries do not increase significantly. Then what's the problem? What is the problem and what I see is the problem of introducing the euro and the problem of the Croatian economy and everything that awaits us? This is being warned by many economists, which is a productive Croatian economy. And here's the secretary of state, the key question that I now have, both as a representative and as a citizen, are interested in. Let's put aside all this now, let's not let the prices rise, a little round the price of coffee will not come to a significant reduction of wages but what will happen to interest in the Republic of Croatia? The interest that will be, or should I say, at the hands of the economies, the development of the economy, will they really be lower? Comrade Lalovac, the former minister earlier warned behind this speaker that we do not yet know what is actually happening because more rigorous, more rigorous lending conditions are being announced. Is that gonna be a case? If interest in the Republic of Croatia, first and foremost for entrepreneurship, and then for citizens, is going to be lower, if this means developing an economy and this is the only way to raise wages then the introduction of the euro can say that it will be positive for the Republic of Croatia but these are the things that the Ministers, the Secretary of State, need not be angry with, but it should be explained, it should be spoken to people. So Minister Pavic, here's paid for the campaign, paid there for Anna and Mary I think they're related to the pension system, bring it closer to people, make it clearer for people, let people know what's actually going to happen with the introduction of the euro. When we talk about the monetary policy of the Republic of Croatia once, he was a colleague of the Skibola, young people asked us even though he and I had a opposite view of this, young people asked us what would happen with the introduction of the euro. So I said nothing, why nothing, so what have we done with the kuna so far? We are with Kuna indeed, whether the CNB is, in addition to the most important task of keeping the course, whether it really helped its activities to the economy, we can say to limited conditions. But ask Croatian businessmen who are exporters. They will tell you that the course of swears them constantly, I will not say destroying but constantly preventing them from being competitive on the European market. What will, of course, be a problem to us after the introduction of the euro is that we will no longer be able to influence some mechanisms ourselves, so we will be subject to the single currency. But I'm saying since we haven't used it so far, we won't lose much. Personally, I do not have a problem with this, personally I am in favour of introducing the euro in the Republic of Croatia but I doubt it and it will be very difficult for us to achieve these goals, and in particular here I say public sector management which we have been dealing with for many years and reducing financial burdens, is thought primarily of the economy, because in these conditions it shows that when we have more stable public finances, we are still not dealing with the main problem, and that is the financial expenditure of the state budget, we are not going towards rationalisation, and in this direction we should, and in this direction, the Ministry of Finance should, and the Minister, first of all, turn his main point of view. And what's even more important is I mean when introducing the euro, it's mentioned, it's one of the goals and I think it's connected to this first goal, along with today's law, which is to prevent systemic risks and I think that this law should also be supported because if indeed, what happened to us in the past cannot happen to us. And fellow Shuker said well, circumstances have changed. We now have much more favourable circumstances than we had. But let's say it in a vivid way, we're afraid that we're saying that we have more favourable circumstances if citizens don't feel it. Let's try everything on these two goals that, it can't just be the Ministry of Finance that as soon as the salary in the Republic grows, that the productivity of the economy grows and then there will be more people who will be for the introduction of the euro. And what other countries' experience showed when the euro was introduced was actually growing in support of the single currency itself until the euro was introduced and the aid dropped here from 2013. The question is, if we still wait in the end, will that support really be at the lowest level we can expect? Supporting the law certainly but a lot of work and a lot of effort to solve these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146410	Thank you. Now, in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mrs. Goddess Macar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146411	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Credit Institutions Act, a law that regulates the conditions for the establishment, operation and termination of the work of credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia and the supervisory of its business. By entering into an EU accession contract, the Republic of Croatia has committed itself to introducing the euro as an official monetary unit when the conditions are met. In this regard, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB also developed a strategy for the introduction of the euro as an official currency in May 2018. There were a lot of words about how much we as citizens are, as businessmen, informed about what the euro brings, what the euro brings for the businessmen, which brings for the citizens because we often look back and go each one of us, which means for us, which brings the euro to me, whether it brings good or bad. Indeed our citizens do not have enough information, they do not know what will happen to the loans, in which way they will now turn into euro if they are in kunas or vice versa, which will be with prices, we have heard that there are also thoughts about what will happen to the salaries, in fact we all see what our standard of living will be like after the introduction of the euro, whether it will be better or worse. Because if we don't have enough information based on what we've been experiencing in the past few years, especially in the banking sector, there were Swiss people, there was the inability to come to savings in banks when banks couldn't pay for savings, and there was a certain amount of insurance that couldn't even come to that amount, so the citizens were kind of scared, because if you don't have enough information in general, you're always afraid. That is why it is really important to engage in information for citizens, where we expect the CNB to really answer all the questions that are being asked, which are being imposed. Of course, the EUR should be introduced, which at that time, some conditions have been met and Croatia has met certain things under these strict conditions and we can finally start to think about it because so far it has not been possible, but without real information from the citizens we really cannot go on. As first according to the banking union, a single supervisory mechanism should ensure that EU policies relating to credit institutions are implemented in a consistent and effective manner, that uniform rules apply equally to all credit institutions in all relevant Member States and that supervision of higher quality is carried out against credit institutions. In order to bring the final objective of introducing the EUR as a legal means of payment to the Republic of Croatia and to enter the banking union, it is necessary first to enable the close cooperation of the CNB with the European Central Bank. There was already this word to be done, that this law is actually a technical law, however, except that the technical law it really enables and prevents systemic risks so that it still brings something more. We have so in Article 7(2). The Council Regulation lays down that one condition is that all participants in a Member State whose currency is not EUR before the application for close cooperation is submitted to all relevant national rules to ensure this cooperation. So it's kind of a technical part, but it really means a lot wider than that. It is precisely because of this Article 7 and it is necessary to adopt this law ensuring the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) 2015/24 of 2013 and EU No 468/2014 of the European Central Bank establishing a framework for cooperation within a single supervisory mechanism between the European Central Bank and national competent authorities and national designated bodies. I've already talked about the CNB and his role. The updated legislative framework will ensure that the CNB respects the guidelines or requirements of the European Central Bank and provides all information on credit institutions based in the Republic of Croatia. And as I said, certainly the HNS is for the introduction of the EUR, and we think that's good. We also think it's a good time to start, but that it certainly takes more information, more explanations because our citizens and our businessmen need answers to many questions. I believe that in this direction we will all work together and be part of the European monetary union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146412	Thank you. Now we move on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146413	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, we see that this debate on the Proposal for a Law on Credit Institutions has turned into a debate in the EURo. In front of the Party Let's change Croatia again I demand the President of the Assembly to put the EUR-o theme at the plenary session of the assembly, to discuss it, to invite representatives of the Ministry of Finance here on behalf of the Government and the CNB. It's just terrifying how important it is, how important issues are discussed so unilaterally in Croatia, a unilateral political propaganda campaign is being conducted in the direction of the government and the CNB, and what we taxpayers pay. Why is the EUR topic on the big door now, the EUR talk? Why is a letter written to the European Central Bank, the European Commission? Well, for one simple reason, this government is overwhelmed by affairs, every week or month is a new affair. On the other hand, they did nothing about the economy that they promised there was no so-called economy. structural reforms, problems pile up, people continue to go abroad, things are spontaneously happening to us, and we simply survive because of tourism and thanks to the signs of our workers from abroad who each year transfer Croatia around 2 billion euros through banks. But let me say as a serious man, so the university professor and politician of the Party Change Croatia has the strongest team of economics in Croatia compared to all the parties sitting here, there are 8 doctors of science and this is a topic that is very rounding us up. Unlike one political or political approach better put on the subject of the EUR, I will take advantage of the opportunity to speak arguments in the experiences of others. So the EUR was not introduced yesterday into the euro area so that we do not know how it will affect other members or how it will affect Croatia. What is the key objective of creating a strategy for the introduction of the euro and the monetary union for the EU? It was the idea to establish peace and co-operation in the area of today's EU, that the nations no longer war, but it happened year by year after 50 years to turn the concept of introducing the euro into a request for creation, for the accelerated creation of, let's say, a super-state that would be called a colloktial let's say, the United States. However, the project is stuck and you know that it is because in several referendums of France, Denmark, etc., that citizens have rejected the proposal so-called. a European constitution that would be most important in the creation of a common state. Since then, there has been no more talk of the constitution than of the Lisbon Agreement. The original idea was that they were particularly pushing and pushing the French from their President Pompidou after Valery Giscard d'Estaing, Mitterand, and all over Holland today to Macron that the euro should be introduced, that it should force the monetary union, for which reason, and precisely because of the creation of a single state and we know that it is least possibly wanted by the French. What, though, was their reason to advocate such a concept? So they were going through a period of uncertainty economically and during that time they saw that Germany was making economic progress and that it had become a European part and they had seen in the single currency, the euro could solve their problems with implementing reforms and they would be better at the German locomotive. So today, this ruling coalition, and we see right here in the debates who here are smoking in, they're about to tell us, let's get on this German locomotive as soon as possible, and by the nature of things, and our car will be fine on that journey. Now, my dear colleagues and colleagues, this is the most difficult issue of the international economy, international finance that concerns the euro. Here it is said, there is the notion of a political euro and an economic euro. The political approach to the euro is what is being heard here today and what are we seeing here today? We have seen here today that HDZ and SDP have an entirely identical view of the introduction of the euro even though the SDP is trying to distort, here we have seen, a colleague of Lalovac who is coming in here, so they also think about the euro with some little finesse and what is the essence of the background, everyone says that we need to implement structural reforms, the exchange of currency for anyone to come to Croatia, will not solve our big problems. The reforms of these two parties were neither able to implement nor will. And the most important structural reform for Croatia will be to escort these two parties into history. This is the most important structural reform for Croatia and it will do so by the parties that have now come to the scene and we from the party Change Croatia call on citizens, dear citizens, you have only one problem, one dilemma, will you support these two parties in the next elections that have ruined us or will you destroy new people, the new parties that, to those people who are more professional, fairer, more capable, give an opportunity or you will choose the people who have ruined us so far. Well, let's say the rest of my speech is arguments. Let's look at the countries that have introduced the euro and which have not introduced the euro and are located across the EU. The question arises why is one Denmark as one of the most developed countries in the world, in the EU, why has it not introduced the euro? It has been in the ERM for 20 years and has no intention of introducing the euro. Why didn't Sweden introduce it? Highly developed, one of the most developed countries in the world but let's look closer to the country why it did not introduce Hungary, the Czech Republic, Poland that is excellently standing and achieving the highest growth rates, economic growth. Poland, which has its currency, is the only country, one economy in the EU that has not experienced recession since 2008, all other EU countries have fallen into recession. Explain that to us. Why the Czechs who stand best are also a small country, why don't they introduce the euro? I was at their place a month and a half ago on a study visit with my associates, they just smiled and said, so listen, sir, why should we introduce the euro when we're developing perfectly with our currency. But that's why I'm going back here to this current political stage in Croatia. Currency is a sign of sovereignty. If you ask me as a citizen about the euro, then I'll tell you this is a technical question and it's not that important, it's even easier to have the euro because you don't have to change anything when you go to Italy, etc. But from the point of view of the economy, it's heaven and country, so there's monetary and exchange rate policy that when you have imbalances in your economy, you can use your currency, monetary policy, exchange rate. If you don't have the biggest problem that comes up, which we've seen before in 2008, he took a very good picture of himself on the example of Greece. And they said let's go in and even if we did, then we'd be better off, then the crisis came in 2008, Greece fell apart, and only a dear god could save her and no one else. Greece, therefore, is the EU's biggest problem and they don't know how to solve it and they won't... He'll have to forgive them all their debts and everything else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Italy is a time bomb of the EU and the euro project because the banks there are keeping 1/3 of their assets in government bonds. The moment interest rates start to rise and that's at the door, Italy won't be able to repay debts, it's over 100 billion a year just paying interest on government debt. So this speech that lies around the euro and the EU, please take it seriously, this is not a referendum we will-not because we know how the coalition partners who are in power are thinking, they are not up to us. If we lose our currency and monetary policy will nail us to the bottom of the EU, we will have the role Kosovo played in the former Yugoslavia. I call on all the sovereign parties, I call on all the citizens to resist this, indiscriminate procedure, and that if we are to go to the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146414	Thank you. Mr. Alexic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146415	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, what you said in the public debate I support, we should have conducted a public debate, it would certainly be good and desirable if we had done, unfortunately we did not. To your question of the Danes and the Swedes, I would dare answer that there is one pragmatism. The Danes and the Swedes are simply not convinced that the EU will survive. And because they are not convinced that the EU will survive they are still calculating with the Eurozone because if the EU does not survive they will be in less trouble if they do not have the euro than if they do, it is a very simple answer. As far as this last one of yours is concerned, I must tell you, however, that a referendum on not entering the Eurozone cannot be implemented, it would not be constitutional but it would be possible to hold a referendum on delaying Eurozone entry. Therefore, a referendum on the postponement of Eurozone entry is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146416	Thank you. Reply Mr. Lovrinović Mr. Lovrinović, you have your word. [[/Invadica Lovrinović: Thank you. A colleague, Alexic.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146417	Excuse me, thank you. A colleague, Alexic, is the first part of your finding, thinking is what the key citizens of Croatia need to know. Let my people be as wise as the Danes and the Swedes, if they do not believe in this project, so do they wait, so why are we in a hurry? We have the least reason, we are far weaker than them to rush, be wise and wait. And this second part, why wait? Because if a big problem arises a new financial crisis then they will use their currencies and their policies, so could we. It means you're wise to wait for what's going on. Maybe we didn't get along well, I'm not calling for a referendum against the euro, I'm calling for a delay in the euro, so that's what this is about. But three people negotiated everything about the EU economy is Martina Dalic, Boris Vujcic and Zdravko Maric. These people have systematically destroyed us for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146418	Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Lovrinović, and in my debate, and you heard that we asked for certain and answers from the CNB that we said should be there and answer these questions about the dissatisfaction of Croatian citizens because we saw that 48%, in my presentation, I said that 48% of Croatian citizens think that this will damage the economy, that there are serious doubts about how it will affect the economy, small businesses, small banks and certainly without these comprehensive analysis and quality answers from the CNB will also depend on the position of the SDP club. So we're discussing them, I agree in your part of the debate, and we know in particular that there was a crisis in the euro, what happened with Greece, they were talking about three speeds, right, which one of the countries where the rate of the euro is going to be. So what's safe is we don't know what's going to happen to the euro after 5 or 10 years. So we're definitely looking here for some kind of written answers from the CNB that will affect citizens' living standards, businesses, and then ultimately we'll make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146420	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146421	Dear colleague Lalovac, I will believe what you have said when the SDP has made it clear and we are looking for a referendum to postpone the introduction, and we want a serious debate in the Assembly then I will believe that the SDP is serious and that you may not be part of this coalition that is working on it. However, you used one poll, all the polls conducted say citizens do not want the introduction of the euro yet. You chose one poll she ordered and paid for by the CNB and I'm sorry that you interpreted that poll, and whoever ordered and paid for it, you know that this poll, it's the only poll that says that citizens will. So don't use that one poll against 50 others. It's a manipulation by the CNB, these governments because it's only important for them to reach the centre of power in Brussels and Frankfurt, but it's well said today that the question is whether it will survive at all. Such a hurry with the euro will destroy the EU's own concept. Let it be known.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146422	Thank you. Let's move on. Mr. Damian Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146423	Dear Vice President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Here I am now holding in my hand this bill and here is a shameful sentence that none of you have mentioned here today, I will read it: "HNB will implement all the guidelines or requests of the European Central Bank and will take all measures relating to credit institutions and requested by the European Central Bank." Here I will repeat this part once again: it will implement all the guidelines or requests of the European Central Bank. So, guys, I hope you've all listened to this sentence, that you've all figured it out, this is a tragedy and what's the worst going on in silence. No one's talking about this. I honestly don't know what our economy will look like. So this is how the European Central Bank decides who, what, where and how it will be produced in our country. It decides which sector of the economy, in which the economy sector will be invested. I mean, this is a shame, and with this, we've lost some last segment of sovereignty. Here I was listening to Mr. Lovrinović and Mr. Alexic, agreeing with them on everything. This is where we lose monetary sovereignty. I know that Mr. Plenkovic prefers the Brussels buildings and I am convinced that Mr. Plenkovic would sell the whole country to her on a plate, sell us the woods, sell us water. I know that right now in our Dubrovnik, the center of Dubrovnik, there are no more Croats, no more Croatian buildings, all bought by foreigners. The Italians are also fishing for us, I think you're all also aware of that. We're losing everything we own here, this is actually what you guys are here from HDZ, this is your policy, your service policy, your courtship, your battle for chairs. I must say, from the Living Wall, you will never, ever have our voice, our hand, nor have you ever had anything like this. I would like to point out one more thing, everyone went under the radar of this EUR introduction strategy as an official currency in Croatia from 2018. It's inexplicable to me how no one so far, I don't know if anyone has read it at all because on page 9 of that strategy it writes under the main point why to introduce the EUR next, here I will quote to the HDZ gentlemen. So, it says: The loss of an independent monetary and exchange rate policy does not make a significant cost for Croatia and you further explain that the loss of monetary and exchange rate policy is not so bad for us because most banks are owned by foreign banks anyway. And what do you tell you on this? You sold out everything, you destroyed everything, and then you still convince us that vassality is okay, that it's no big deal. The living wall definitely disagrees with this, I call on the Croatian people to resist this kind of policy. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146424	Mr. Alexic will be replicating you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146425	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You see, colleague Vucelic, it's not that much of a problem for me that the central bank is going to give some guidance, she's giving them now. We're meeting these guidelines now, and nothing special is going to change. I have a problem with something else much bigger. I don't trust the CNB, I don't trust people who work in the CNB, these are people who have allowed Croatian citizens to be robbed with unfair loans, these are people who aren't then when it's decided that that's how the banks stopped it, those are people who didn't order the government of the Republic of Croatia to take certain measures to bring banking business into legal norms. And that's why I don't trust the CNB, and the CNB will have one vote that's worth the same as the voice of all other banks when they go there to participate in the work of all euro area banks. I don't trust the CNB, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146426	Thank you. Mr. Vucelic's answer. Would you like to respond? No, well, thank you. Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146427	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear MPs, distinguished representatives today at this point on the agenda we had the opportunity to open the debate and the accession of the Croatian euro zone. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the CNB have taken these initial steps towards joining the euro zone, which is an application for ERN 2 course mechanism. Why is that worrying? It is alarming to see how support is for the implementation of the EUR by Croatian citizens. If we take into account official surveys, not these surveys that Mr. Lalovac cited, they are surveys from the CNB official pages, if we take into account the official Eurobarometer polls, so the Eurobarometer is an official EU survey paper and you will see that in these surveys more than 50% of Croatian citizens are not currently in favour of the introduction of the EUR. And now that you have a situation where Croatian citizens are not in favour of the introduction of the EUR, and you have a parallel situation where the Croatian political elite together with these banking conglomerate interests is trying to push us into the euro area as soon as possible. So these are conflicts of interest and these are obvious conflicts of opinion held on the Croatian political scene. What should be said that we must be a voice in the Croatian Parliament of Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens know that by introducing the EUR there will be an increase in prices and that is unquestionable. So these are experiences from other euro area Member States, you have experience from Slovenia, you have experience from Italy, for example. In Italy, support not only for the euro zone has fallen, but for the EU and there, the parties that are Eurosceptic have over 60% political, political support. Since prices will rise and wages will not grow simply logically is that Croatia is currently not in favour of taking over the EUR. So every push in the euro zone, without the wages going up, we don't have at least an approximate salary like Germany, Austria and France are not economically justified and economically rational moves. So these are simple political moves motivated by an agenda that exists. So there's an agenda and there's no economic rationality. Personally, I am not for such a policy, I am for a policy that will be more sovereign, which will be wise and above all look at national interest. Croatian citizens should be offered a referendum on this issue, the referendum had much more developed countries than we have on the introduction of the EUR, had Sweden in 2003 and I see no reason why Croatia would not have a referendum on this issue especially when we see that the public does not support the current introduction of the EUR, because the public thinks that our economy cannot currently endure such a process and that Croatian citizens will have damages from it. I understand the same thing when I see that the governor of the National Bank and the vice governors represent the introduction of the euro, however, the question arises whether they are motivated to introduce the euro because of particular interests or whether they are looking at a wider social interest. They are not afraid of price growth and it is understandable that they are not afraid of price growth because today their salaries are over 5,000 euros, and in this context it is clear that Croatian citizens here are not in the first place but first again the banking and political elite. It should be said with the application ERM 2 course mechanism, the ERM course mechanism remains at least 2 years, but what it needs to know is that certain countries have been in the ERM 2 course mechanism for over 10 years, so you have the Lithuania and Latvia case, so that we will enter the ERM 2 course mechanism, of course if they accept our application, it does not mean that in 5 years we will introduce the euro because then we are only moving to control macroeconomic parameters and only then will we see if Croatia meets those elements that include structural reforms because we have often received warnings from the European Commission that Croatia is not effective in implementing structural reforms. The second thing is to meet these criteria of nominal convergence, I have previously talked about real convergence where our salaries are not even roughly equal to the salaries in Germany, Austria, France and in terms of nominal convergence, the fact is that Croatia does not meet the public debt criterion because we currently have a public debt of over 70% of GDP and the nominal convergence criterion is 60% compared to GDP. This law also mentions the creation of a banking union. As for the banking union, we need to take a critical look at the creation of the banking union, why? Because I believe, personally, I believe that centralisation of financial power in the EU is not good at all. We see that centralisation of financial power becomes a huge problem not only in the EU but also in a world where certain private entities, private not public structures, but private structures, accumulate power that becomes much greater than the elected democratic governments, and then these private structures influence and create public policies. I personally strongly oppose such models. It should be said and stressed that Croatian citizens know that all EU countries are unfortunately not equal, I advocate the equality of all countries within an association called the EU, but you have, for example, Denmark, which, given the possibility to exempt itself from the introduction of the euro, had the same possibility as Britain, so some countries were given the possibility not to introduce the euro, we committed ourselves to introducing the euro, which does not mean that a referendum could not be carried out, but I am saying that our political elites are looking at the national interest a little bit, because for example. The fact that in Denmark they could have fought for such an option not to accept the euro and in Croatia our politicians could not have fought for such an option, which does not mean that in one 10 years we will not be ready to enter the Euro zone, so I am not categorically against the euro but I believe that the economic situation does not allow us to do so. And at the end of this speech, I must also look back at recent elections for main functions within the EU. What has missed many, because they have been more focused on the functions around the European Commission, but what many have missed is the function of the Governor of the European Central Bank. It should be said that a person who has been a member of the executive board of the International Monetary Fund for many years, namely Christine Lagarde and anyone who follows IMF policies, primarily economic policy, is known to be one of Christine Lagarde's most burning advocates of severe austerity measures, severe tax presses and severe restrictive both fiscal and economic policies and, accordingly, we can conclude in what direction the European Central Bank will lead in the future of policy, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146428	The first line has Mr. Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146429	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Skibola, so I am actually talking about this poll that I found on the CNB's pages, I did not speak positively but even the opposite, that it is terrifying that they have bad data and they have ordered a survey where even of those who say they are positive, 48% of Croatian citizens think that the introduction of the euro will have a negative effect, these are frightening data. Only 25% of Croatian citizens say they will have a positive and second thing, in the same poll, tell me they are very bad, given that they are customers, they say the majority of Croatian citizens from between 30 and 45 years of age are never required to introduce the euro. So these are the very bad indicators of the CNB that ordered the poll, and here we don't have them on the other hand to explain and we're entering this kind of mechanism, we don't have any answers to those questions and the very bad poll they ordered, they have very bad ones and let's imagine what you said is that there are other polls.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146430	Answer, Mr. Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146431	Thank you, Mr. Lalovac, for this replica. I must say that I agree with you, but it certainly needs to be taken into account how it is possible for the CNB to order these own surveys and put them on official pages that are probably not even relevant because we have a Eurobarometer that has the data that they have and that they are, this di is simply in a particular conflict. So, they are irresponsible to the Croatian public to create some public opinion that is currently not going down their hair and in such a way that it is incorrect that nothing good can be done. My opinion is that the governor of the National Bank, the vice governors, should open a public debate, be open, accept certain criticisms, accept certain advantages that the EURo brings but in an honest open way, not manipulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146432	Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146433	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Skibola, first of all I congratulate you on your excellent and reasoned presentation, you are a young economist, the youngest parliamentary representative, what I would like to ask you and tell you to order a CNB survey, pay it, put it on your site, and that is the only survey that says that citizens want a majority EURo. So she consciously manipulates our pay money and uses it. So the first thing we're going to do is change the Croatian Party, when we participate in the future government, and that's for sure, we're going to take part of the responsibility, is that we're just going to check very well because there means non-transparent, non-transparentity too. But I want to ask you something about the EUR, why does Croatia's citizens not say that salaries will be cemented, frozen, that the standard will be very low, that Croatia wants to turn into a country of waitresses, cooks and drivers, about which nobody tells me What's that for? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146434	Mr. Scibola's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146435	Thank you, Mr. Lovrinović, so I must say that, in addition to these, let's say the fake polls they put on the CNB official pages, they on these official pages assure citizens that the increase in prices is some mystic. So, it's not a reality, it's a myth, but from experience you as a professor of monetary economy, so I guess you're talking to colleagues from Slovenia from Italy with economists and you know that it's not a myth, but it's really going to grow, but now in what quantities the prices are going to grow it's a different question, but it's undeniable fact that they're going to grow because Eurostat himself claims that at least 0.3% will rise, and then in the CNB they won't look back on wages, they're not going to say whether or not the wages are going to grow, you understand, but just as a price increase it's a myth, and not reality, and as far as payin', it's nobody... [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146436	Thank you very much, thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146437	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretary of the Ministry of Finance, I must say that I and the SNAGA party are neither Eurosceptic nor against entering the euro zone, nor are we sovereigns in a way that we consider the kuna to be some symbol of sovereignty. Kuna is not a symbol of sovereignty. She's more of a romantic category. On the other hand, however, the Power Party listens to any nation and conflicts arise in the nation. Entrepreneurs in large numbers and exporters and importers believe that the EURo should be introduced. On the other hand, citizens in large numbers believe that the EURo should not be introduced. And now, in all this, we need to find some measure and see what would be best for the Republic of Croatia, if the situation is such that there is still no majority picture of the fact that the EUR should be introduced then the euro area entry should be delayed. Now some are calling for a referendum and believe the referendum should decide whether to enter the euro area. All those calling for a referendum in such a way, who say the referendum should be organised and ask citizens to answer the question whether we want to enter the euro area, they are wrong, because such a question would not be constitutional. It would not be constitutional because the Republic of Croatia signed a contract with the EU, and the agreement says that we will enter the euro area once the conditions are met, we agreed to join the EU in the referendum, and by that agreement we have accepted such a contract and we cannot step down from it. However, I also consider the SNAGA Party to believe that the conditions have not been met and that it is not time to enter the euro area. Let's just look at these more developed countries like Denmark and Sweden, as Professor Lovrinovic mentioned, which are pragmatically awaiting entry into the euro area, they may enter the euro area one day, but they wait pragmatically and do not rush into the euro area because it is not certain what the future of the euro zone is. We have a situation with these countries that are in crisis, which have problems and which could cause a riot in the euro area itself. And that's why haste, there's time, let's wait, but this appeal of mine obviously doesn't come across fertile soil because it's already a requirement to enter the euro area's entry system, so nothing can be achieved there. However, the SNAGA Party is against it for some other reasons. What are the other reasons? The reason is the CNB, first of all. As we know, once we enter the euro zone of the CNB, or our governor will become part of the council, and in that council, a piece of the sovereignty of the CNB will be even greater than a piece of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia in the EU because the vote of Governor Vujčić will have the same strength as the votes of all other central bank governors in the euro area. And you side that's good, but what's not good is the fact that I don't trust the CNB. Why don't I trust the CNB? Experience is such that I can't trust you. First, until 10 January 2013, banks agreed on unfair interest rates with most consumers. The CNB was warned in 2011, it was asked by the CNB to suspend such business of Croatian banks, but the CNB did not consider it illegal, although the CNB kept information on its websites that the administrative decision of the bank on the change in interest rate was in fact a legal and normal way of changing interest rates. Which means that in fact, the CNB kept the bank's loyalties foreign-owned to behave that way. I will pull the parallel with the Croatian Post Bank, which is the state bank in that bank, such interest rates have not been negotiated, is it not interesting? How come the Croatian Post Bank did not have such interest rates, while all other foreign banks had such interest rates. On the other hand, the mother bank never negotiated such interest rates in domestic states because they were not allowed to. Neither should our foreign-owned banks, but they did it because no one stopped them, and they needed to be prevented by the CNB. The CNB instead of preventing these banks from doing such a business, it kept their lojtries on the web site on which it informs consumers about the way banks operate, on that site it kept information on how it is a normal way of operating Croatian banks. And when did the CNB remove that information from her website? It was removed that day or maybe a week, two months after a final verdict was passed in the case of francs. And when I say the franc case, everyone thinks Swiss, it's not Swiss, the Swiss is only in the currency clause section, but the problem is much wider, and it's called illegal, unfair, and that's why a zero change in interest rate that's been going on since 2000 until today in those loans where it's not agreed properly. So there's the problem. This was to prevent the CNB, however, from removing that information which was wrong, which was illegal, which was the opposite of the law only when it was passed a powerful verdict in the case of francs and when it was found that the banks had negotiated an unfair interest rate which was therefore zero, only then did the CNB react to remove that notice from its pages, but did not do what it had to do again on the basis of that ruling because in that judgment, although in most parts it was not executed in one part of it, and that is the part which it says, neither banks should behave in the future nor in the same way, and the banks continued to behave and not in the loans in which they agreed on such an interest rate called on consumers and agreed with them a new interest rate. However, once a law has been passed that also in loans where the interest rate is not agreed on in the proper manner, banks must define the parameters, they must comply with the consumer and finally negotiate those parameters. Of these three items, the bank made only one, the banks only defined these parameters and informed consumers of maybe 300,000 that future interest rates would be determined on the basis of parameters that the bank itself, unilaterally without the contract, would define. And then the banks talked for a long time about how it was okay and again the CNB supported that way of operating the banks and said that, it's legal, so it's settled by law I don't know what we could do here. And only in 2018 did the Supreme Court in one audit decide that such bank behaviour is wrong. We have to keep waiting for the court to decide that there's something wrong with the bank's business. The court gave us the right, what we keep saying, which is that banks should not have arbitraryly defined those parameters because such a arbitrary definition of parameters is illegal, unfair and harmful. So it's not true that they were supposed to do it, and the CNB was holding their ladders again. I therefore appeal to the Ministry of Finance that, in the following amendments to the Credit Institutions Act, some things are finally resolved in favour of the citizens, not only of what they have to deal with but also of harmonising legislation with the EU, but also of sometimes acting creatively and in line with what is currently addressed to citizens' problems. So one of the problems is still this interest rate that can be defined correctly, it's not at all a problem I've suggested many times. It can also be defined how to deal with agencies that buy debts by 20%, 30% of the value, and then they are no longer in the jurisdiction of the CNB, and I believe that if it is based on a loan that has been sold or which has been cancelled, those agencies should be under the jurisdiction of the CNB in that section. Despite the fact that I do not trust the CNB, there is no one at this time better institutionally to act against banks in the event or against anyone who violates consumer rights. So, until the compensation of Croatian citizens is resolved, as these agencies get rid of each other, until some of the problems we have are solved, I am against entering the euro area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146438	Thank you, too. We have five replicas on your exhibit. First up, he's a pal of the Squibbles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146439	Mr. Alexic, I am interested in your opinion on these publications that the CNB puts on its official pages and on surveys that are irrelevant and unworthy. Why am I interested? Because I know that the Swiss franc was a similar situation, that even then they manipulated and that they did not want to say on their official pages that banks were unlawfully, illegally changing interest rates by their own free will, but also using some euphemisms and thus indirectly favouring foreign interest capital. Here's what I'm interested in is your opinion of this behavior of the headmen of the CNB, how is it possible that they manipulate, fabricate that data, in whose interest they're doing it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146440	Thank you, too. Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146441	Thank you. Dear fellow Skibola, so the answer is very simple, the CNB behaves as well as political parties, lobbying for its interest, lobbying for Governor Vujčić to go to work there as soon as possible, so it is important to them, it is not important to them what is the real situation in the country and manipulations are political, so it is typical political behaviour, it is not the behaviour of professional economists, lawyers, etc., but it is the political behavior of most of the parties that are here in the Croatian Parliament and that is my answer to your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146442	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146443	Dear colleague, I will agree with your exposure to most things, but I disagree with what you said about sovereignty, sovereignty. Indeed, it is a very important thing, I agree that this should have been a monetary issue first of all, but you and I will agree that the citizens of Croatia will not live better when we introduce the euro, we agree. However, I would like you to point out the other problem, which is that Croatia will be a less sovereign state by entering the euro zone, i.e. that the UK or the United Kingdom has a chance for Brexit precisely because it has kept its English pound. So that's a very important question and no less important than the question of citizens' standards.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146444	Thank you, reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146445	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleague Zekanovic, the point is that we have not used this sovereignty at all so far, because we have not been able to solve this monetary policy in a better way through the Kuna, we have not used it so far, nor from now on, and I have said in fact that in terms of sovereignty there is no role that we have used this kuna for our monetary purposes, that we have gradually increased the course every year 1.2%, that it has benefited importers, exporters, in fact the most exporters, of course, and not importers, then this kuna would have this sovereign monetary role that it has not yet had and will have no future and therefore it does not make sense on that side. As far as this Brexit is concerned, you're right, and that's why I said that we should postpone entry into the Euro zone so that we don't find it difficult today-to-morrow when the Euro zone fails because it can and can fail, which is why, of course, these stronger economies were very wise not to enter the Euro zone and we should postpone it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146446	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146447	Thank you very much. Comrade Alexic, you said it would be an anti-constitutional referendum because we signed a contract when we entered the EU and when we joined the EU, everything was counter-constitutional. However, when we look at what the Croatian Bank has done about the anti-constitutional issue, here are countless questions I can ask which one I have been asking. Is it constitutional that Austria's foreign credit cooperatives are saving the interest of Croatian citizens while the National Bank of Austria defends the state from where they rob our people, whether it's anti-constitutional to sell gold 15 tonnes and not ask anyone with the blessing of the Minister of Finance and the CNB, is it anti-Constitutional to give Agrokor bonds without cover, 10 billion kuna where monetary policy is threatened? So I agree with you in your fight, however, from the anti-constitution... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146448	Thank you, fellow Bull, for your reply to the line. Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146449	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, the thing is that a referendum on not entering the Euro Zone would really be counter-constitutional, but I'm going to take a look at what you've been up against, and I'm going to pay attention to just one detail, and that's the question of these cooperatives that you mentioned. We may again be saved by the EU court from ourselves. First, the EU court said that this law on integrity is contrary to EU law, so let's put it aside now. Someone is angry at the EU court, someone is not, it doesn't matter, the EU court is a very professional organisation, but on the other hand, we have a new issue at the EU court, which was set by the Zadar municipal court in Case C-277/19. These very important questions are raised whether the contract is harmful if it was concluded by a bank that does not have a license to work in the Republic of Croatia or if such a contract is harmful if the intermediary who intervened did not have a license? And so a whole series of interesting questions, I believe that the EU court will again save Croatian citizens, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146450	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146451	Thank you. Dear counterpart Alexic, I agree with you, means a referendum to postpone entry into the European Monetary Union, but you said that polls show that citizens do not want to introduce the euro quickly, but you said that exporters mostly want to, I think you are wrong, so the representatives of the Croatian Association of Exporters of which two, three leading people there are close to the current government, so they must speak. Here's the other day, a man who's president of AD Plastics' Administration, got the best exporter award in the last year, says that because of HNB's poor exchange rate policy, they lost 90 million kuna in 5 years and could have built a new factory. So it tells a man how important the course policy is, but I want to ask you something else. Wasn't the whole time forging, tying to foreign currencies the euro, the franc, was a thought-out policy of not using the kuna, of suppressing why we had blood problems, and we still have... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146452	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146453	Thank you. Dear colleague Lovrinovic, so what you said was proof that this exporter would have fit into the euro because if he had in the euro, he wouldn't have that loss, because of the kuna we have this loss and because the CNB didn't use monetary policy for export purposes, that's why it was. So that's exactly the opposite of proof that it would be good for that exporter to have in the euro, you wouldn't have a loss. On the other hand, when you talk about this situation of the euro, the franc, of course, the banks actually had an excuse in how by placing an franc, they could have less interest rates, which was a flossula, which was a lie, which had nothing to do with any truth than simply an excuse. The interest rates of consumers in Croatia are linked exclusively to the deposits of Croatian citizens for interest rates in deposits and has nothing to do with the franc, the EUR, the kuna, but only to deposits in those currencies, and in the francs of the deposit almost never happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146454	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. Here you go, pal Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146455	Thank you, Vice President. You said well in your presentation that all the laws, including this one, should first look at the interests of the citizens and how this reflects on the quality of their lives. We see now given the existing law, the legislative framework on credit institutions has enabled them to do what they want in Croatia, that whoever controls it, and that is the CNB did not do it. Meanwhile, the assets of banks grew, profits grew, we heard that last year it was over 5 billion in the Republic of Croatia, while citizens were brought into debt slavery, or forced them to go on a judicial path to solve their problem with banks, and unfortunately even some institutions warned the citizens not to go with lawsuits that it was questionable how judgments would be not come to a new financial cost. So my question to you is how many citizens have filed lawsuits against banks and how many so far are positive for the benefit of citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146456	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146457	Thank you. Your colleague Vlaovic, you see, has no exact record, but according to what I've received so far, there are over 20,000 lawsuits at this time, and several more courts have not given any information as to how many lawsuits there are. As for the positive judgments, anything, I would say 99% of the verdict is in favour of the citizens. The first-degrees also 99% and the rightful 99%, we are now awaiting a decision on bank audits of the decision, the Supreme Court's decision on bank audits of the high-level commercial court. If this decision is positive for the benefit of the citizens, which I expect because it is on the track of EU law, it is hardly possible to judge it differently than to make a positive decision, then we will launch a genuine tsunami of lawsuits because it will not work otherwise, obviously we are not able to pass a law here that would help people. So there will be at least 100,000 lawsuits against the banks. I'm almost sure of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146458	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Bull's Miro's. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146459	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed secretaries here are asking countless questions and the tribunal, of course, to discuss whatever these technical amendments to the law are very much, are opening a very important issue that is the introduction of the EUR. Of course, the first question that citizens, people will ask is whether to live better by introducing the EUR, of course there are then these other issues and issues of sovereignty, someone will say it, someone will say it is not, but the main question is whether the EUR is bringing something good. And then when we turn around and look that Denmark hasn't introduced the EURo, then the question arises why do we break the habit like geese in the fog. Why? Because they are based, at the outset, the secretary told the Ministry of Finance and I agree that here he needed someone important in front of the CNB, but the CNB is less important, they have obligations, they have more important waiters who will love wine with food, white wines with white fish, black wines a little stronger with game, etc., these topics are not important to them. However, the key question is always being asked here, which is why this people should not be asked if the assembly is not already asked. Someone adopted a strategy, when we entered the EU, certain contracts were signed, the fact and other countries signed certain contracts and obligations as Hungary signed to sell agricultural land, the referendum was announced, foreign land to foreigners in Hungary, and we are currently not equal as Croatia, because from 2020 on, we will be able to sell agricultural land to Croatian foreigners. So nothing here would be wrong to call a referendum, but basically the people need to know they're not even asking this assembly. These are the commitments made by the governments of Sanader, Racan, Sanader, I don't know who was doing all the negotiations of Jadranka Kosor, Milanovic, who was involved in all this, and then the assembly obviously had to nod its heads, and therefore this assembly does not tribune with its head because in practice it is visible that these contracts can be changed I cited the issue of agricultural land in Hungary's sale of the country. So, the referendum is a perfectly legal question, but the fact is that when we talk about the CNB that, the CNB that had to protect the monetary policy of the biggest strokes, I said it was a case of 10 billion kunas of bonds without covering Agrokor which was a direct blow, meaning on paper because Todorovic was signing and giving, it was a money official payment asset, it was a huge blow to financial policy. We had 15 tons of gold, I think that, 15 tons of gold sold to no one to ask, the people did not ask it astoundingly when all the countries surrounding their gold kept in the vault. The gram of gold Croatia is gone, gold has been sold without being asked in the referendum of the people and the many other things that were happening, here I mentioned savings-credit cooperatives we even brought the law on savings-credit cooperatives, about the nullity of these loans and unanimously here 2/3-ski and more, but our judges, the judge from our judiciary who, in an equivalent example of conflict of interest, has prevented it and is now in courts irrelevant which, however, is the fact that we would not debate at all. It's been brought two-thirds of the week. unanimously in this assembly that it was illegal loans. This is where the question is asked means key, I'll repeat it and here I'll ask him, I've asked a few questions to the secretary, I expect those answers too. So we remember here how much the CNB was defending itself and how much politics it defended, the ruling HDZ and all together, did not give any consent except for a few opposition smaller parties in the matter of the CNB's business audit, and it stalled, prevented. So CNB is now not sovereign, it does not work in the interest of protection of monetary policy, development of the economy, as I said with 600 and some employees, which does not know what pay is, what is the tender, they are, who call the competitions, much more important to them than I said to call the competition, as Governor Vujčić wrote in 2014 where they needed people with special skills, but not economic, not financial, but I repeat, they are much more important skills of chefs, how to connect ethnology with gastronomy. how to combine white fish with white wines, like I said. And that is a fundamental problem that we do not have a sovereign monetary policy within the framework, so if we need to talk and of course we are within the EU, but we do not have to go in like goose chases in the fog and why are we afraid of the referendum, why are we only calling for a strategy and we in the Assembly do not discuss it? So let the people discuss, let the experts argue, I want to hear all the people experts who are in favour and who are against the introduction of the euro, I want it, I have my position about the introduction of the euro, it's my position but why not hear the experts who say we are or against, means the reasons. This is when we entered the EU, I will return to the beginning of this debate, then the Constitution was changing and against constitutional i.e. Laws on elections and on a referendum where in the last year no way to change the way to choose i.e. in this case, the referendum issue for EU entry was no longer required by 50+1 votes, 50% + 1 vote. So it's anti-constitutional to the people, the vote was made but unanimously then here in the Parliament, then, it means unanimously. We have now entered the EU in this way, in my opinion unfairly towards the people because the Constitution has changed, the referendum is such a question, when you want to expand the road in the local committee and you need a referendum question that will be left and right, 50+1% of the locals should come out and no need to join the EU, gentlemen. It wasn't necessary. It's one of the great scams of the people, it's taking away that right that people choose power and people decide on direct democracy, it's a constitutional obligation, and I don't see any problem to call a referendum after a public debate, after round tables, and not what Vujcic has done, I don't know who else, Maric or who else, they've made some kind of strategy with European officials how they got to the secretaries in the European Council and it doesn't matter, we'll take the euro, what the Danes won't do, we won't set the conditions, we won't ask ourselves why. And other countries of the Czech Republic, or I don't know which countries. So this is where the basic question is raised, dear secretary, and I'd like you to answer these questions, I know there's new information, probably on the cell phone you're getting, I don't know, but the key question is, who's to guarantee that it's going to be a better life? How will you live when the euro is introduced? How will our citizens, what will be the standard? What's the economy going to be like? What you said, here's a question for the question. Why hasn't Denmark introduced the euro? Here, I'm curious, you're the Minister of Finance, you have a cell phone, you call Vujčić, you must have some kind of contact, I know he's a Pharaoh, that you're doing what he says and how he gets the directives, and that's how the system works. So here is the key question that Croatian citizens must know what the introduction of the euro brings. I will publicly present my position to the citizens on the introduction of the euro. I've made that clear, I've done it five times and I've said it again, but that's the least of it, that's my attitude. All experts need to be heard through public hearings, see, to call a referendum or delay or not to introduce or introduce, to let the citizen decide on this. And you have so much allowed the monopoly of the Central Bank, in fact the CNB is no longer the Croatian National Bank, so it was the least protected and about what I cited a few cases regarding our i.e. The CNB, it's much more important to them to listen to advice from the Central Bank and it's most important to them as I said, which waiters buy and love wine food, was black, was white, which fish, game, and that's the most important thing to them. I call upon you, Madam Secretary, to answer these questions, which is why these states that have had an obligation, which are also in the Euro zone, have not entered, which is why they are delayed and why they are thrown away. Maybe the indicators say we're more economically developed than they are, our economy is better, our market is better, our demographic position. What's better than these countries like Denmark that doesn't want and coke puts off the euro? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146460	Thank you, fellow Bull. We've got two replicas on his display. He's my first mate, Schibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146461	Thank you. Mr. Bulj, there are some topics, the most important topics in my opinion in which HDZ and SDP always agree. Some of these topics you mentioned in your discussion, which is the entry of the State Audit into the CNB, you know both HDZ and SDP were against the State Audit entering the National Bank. Mr. Bulj, you also know that the governor of the current governor Vujčić, regardless of all the failures that this man made while running the National Bank, both HDZ and SDP supported. I would like to say that after the next parliamentary elections, it is very certain that their co-operation, whether indirect, is direct, is only a question of how it will present it to the Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146462	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146463	Well, there's obviously Governor Vujčić and that date, so the central figure, the binding, the main player that binds all these interests, and he connected it together, and of course it's visible from what you said. When is Governor Vujcic, I called, when was he elected here? It was chosen the day that Croatia played with England, when the whole of Croatia was directed towards the game, of course, the fans' passions were, it was a great success, it was appointed, then Vujčić was re-elected, just like the voices of SDP and HDZ and he and is the connective tissue of this whole story and of course as you numbered it, this case of revision in the business of the CNB for which no one would take the right to decide on monetary policy, but here it is obviously a central figure of Croatian politics and it is a binding tissue, he is a binding player, he is basically Messi in the centre, we can say, he is Luka Modric for the connection of HDZ and SDP. They chose him together, and they'll keep him safe together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146464	Thank you. Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146465	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, in your presentation you mentioned a lot, land sales, loans, referendums and so on. We need to know, and I need to figure out what we want. Whether we want an open country, a country where people want to invest, whether we want a stable currency where we can be sure how much interest we will be, if we go back a little bit, then we'll see that before the interest were 6.5 to 10%, that the interest is from 0.7% to 2.3%, and what is the sign, the state's stability sign, the euro stability sign where our citizens have a very, very large amount of money in the euro. I personally think that the euro was suitable for all, and both craftsmen and businessmen where they would be safely protected currency, therefore, I see no reason why we would not allow someone to come and buy something in Croatia and ultimately invest, we ourselves do not have the opportunity to invest as foreign capital could. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146466	Thank you, answer. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146467	I respect your view that you are for the introduction of the euro, this is your position, your right, however, and it is the right of someone else to listen to experts and people say in public through public debate and that only then after a public debate is it decided why the example of Denmark will not be in the Euro zone, although there are much more euros in Denmark than in Croatia only if Croatia is not more developed, I asked you, what makes Croatia more developed than Denmark, is the economic secretary asking once more so that they have the caution to introduce the euro, to enter the Euro zone? So here's the question of profession and expertise, and in the end, it's up to the people to decide. This is the weight left by the governments that started negotiations from Racan, Sanader, Kosorica, Milanovica, all who had completed these processes and procedures, they left weights and then they had to raise their hands here unanimously under pressure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146468	Thank you, colleague Bulj, we continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Zekanovic Hrvoje. Here you go, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146469	Croatian sovereigns are against the introduction of the euro, Croatian sovereigns are in favour of retaining the Croatian kuna. The introduction of the euro is not a monetary instrument, it is a political instrument that seeks to create an additional cohesion within the EU, which is trying to strengthen a single unitary EU, which is trying to reduce all attributes of the sovereignty of all European states and so does Croatia. I would say here at first one very important thing that this law is wrongly called, this law is called the formal proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions, but it should have been the law on the European Central Bank. Here's if you've listened to an esteemed secretary of state, he's said 50 times exactly the Central European Bank because it's actually about her exclusively. And what is very important here to stress that, here I do not know how clearly this will be the public here a few days ago, more precisely on 4 July, took one key step in the introduction of the euro without it being a public debate, that we understand each other, is not obliged by Prime Minister Plenkovic to have a public debate because he was not obliged to listen or listen to 400,000 Croatian citizens when they asked for referendums, so he can do whatever he wants, so here his Minister Maric sent a letter to the EU asking us to enter the European course mechanism, so to speak. ERM 2. And what citizens know is that's exactly the prerequisite for the introduction of the euro. However, there are some countries like this. Sweden, such as Denmark, which did not, regardless of its obligations to introduce the euro, did not introduce it precisely because the European exchange rate mechanism did not enter, they did not. You can do that, too. Besides, I'm going to tell you this thing that's very simple. The contracts are to dispute and to change if the voice of the people is so. Well, we had a contract, it was in the end, it was the AVNOJ session, so we challenged that contract, so we have an independent Croatian state, right? We challenged that contract. ... The Croatian people challenged him, Mr. Maras, yes, the Croatian people challenged him. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Yes, so we have an independent Croatian state. Please, would you warn your colleague to be quiet? That's right, yeah, great. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Please, colleague Maras.]] So, and what is very interesting to me, colleague Maras, and you, of course, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, are like-minded here with colleagues from HDZ, although you were also a member of HDZ, a colleague of Doncic, so it is actually the same to you, what is important to highlight about all the key topics in this conference of the Croatian Parliament, you are like-minded. So SDP and Plenkovic's HDZ, this modern, liberal HDZ today, they're like-minded. It won't bother you, Vice-President of the Parliament, because you've been jumping from party to party anyway, but here's some of your colleagues might be a little unpractical, but here you are, the one beautiful bond between the future HDZ coalition and the SDP. Here is my colleague, Boric, the HDZ is meaning to smile, he hears this because he is ready for that coalition in a year and a half no matter how little mandate he will win, he hopes that with the help of you colleagues Doncic and colleagues Maras will manage the Croatian state...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146470	Comrade Zekanovic, please come back on the subject, I will not give you a warning that it will not turn out to be personal, if it is just, go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146471	Let me, let me talk. Therefore, the Croatian public must know all the key facts, which is the fact that you were once a member of the HDZ and that the big coalition is happening and that this bill is about it, that the SDP and HDZ position is identical or that you are both both Plenokovic's HDZ and such SDP that they are for the introduction of the EUR. I will say what I said at the outset Croatian sovereigns are against the introduction of the EUR because the EURo is not a monetary instrument but is one political instrument that seeks to further strengthen the spray, cohesion within the EU, and reduce all key attributes of the sovereignty of any European state. Here when we talk about the sovereignty and sovereignty of any country can be protected in different ways, however monetary sovereignty is very, very important and just the most beautiful example is the UK that has kept its English pound and that is exactly what made it possible for the UK, the United Kingdom, that today there is a possibility that through Brexit, through the exit from the EU, there is a return of its sovereignty. If the UK had introduced the EUR, it wouldn't have opened up the possibility it has today. And from this place I will call once again on the Croatian institutions, and here I am thinking first of all of a single person that is our President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović to make his view of the EUR loud and clear. That Croatian citizens know who they're going to vote for president tomorrow. Whether it will be her or someone else, whether it will be a person who advocates the introduction of the EUR or it will be some person who is to protect the sovereignty of our country, which is to protect monetary sovereignty. I will agree here with colleagues who had discussed before, unfortunately Croatia has not taken advantage of the possibility offered first by Kuna, which is to protect its monetary space, to strengthen exports because CNB today is one of the exposures of the Central European Bank. However, at the moment when we introduce a EURo that will not lead us to a better standard then we lose that little opportunity that we have so far. So, I might just be back in my debate two steps back. When we talk in general about the creation of the EU, the EU is designed as one space that will give everyone a better standard. Unfortunately, today, the EU, apart from the ideological laws, which, like the Istanbul Convention, the Marrakech Agreement, is not a good thing for our country, and the EUR is the only one I will say again for the third time, an instrument that further tries to make a single European state which means it will work against the last attributes of Croatian sovereignty.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146472	Thank you. You have two replicas. The first one's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146473	Thank you very much. Mr Zekanovic forgot that during the oath in this house, he committed himself to implement and respect the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which among others says that the historical right of the Croatian people to full state sovereignty was manifested and now, in one provision, he said in fact that in the establishment of the foundation of state sovereignty in the period of World War II, expressed against the declaration of NDH in the decisions of the Earth Anti-Fashist Council of the People's Liberation of Croatia from '43. years, which he said we broke up and canceled, so that's what it says in our Constitution. We should inform Mr Zekanovic and then the Constitution of the National Republic of Croatia in '47. and amendments to the Constitution of '63. By the '90s, that's where our right to have our own country was manifested. And it's written in the Constitution, and you're talking here that we've given up something. [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Marasau.]] We didn't think anything [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Cancelled. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146474	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146475	Who's gonna talk about what, if they don't want Maras on anti-fascists. So, a colleague if you don't respect the Constitution here, so the Croatian people changed the Constitution so he decided that marriage is a community of women and men, and then you later passed a law here that you annulled, so you ignored actually one decision that is very important because it's constitutional and then you actually played the Constitution and made one law that allows everything that is forbidden by the Constitution. And as for AVNOJ and AVNOJ values, you continue to respect them, the Croatian people also in the Homeland War and the decision on independence said what they were thinking, and your party, your contemporaries said at the time when they left the assembly when the decision on independence was made as they thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146476	Here you go, fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146477	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Zekanovic, I know you said you were against the introduction of the EUR. I personally think that in my view I am thinking about it, I am not a member of the HDZ, of course, that the EUR-o is much better for the Croatian people and simpler. We had Yugoslavia where we had a problem with the dinar, so we have now everything is recalculated into EURo. We see especially by interest and stability today we have a surplus in the budget and we see that the interest is from 1% to 3% and we need to know the other thing is that we want this kuna and we regret it, but we have to develop, and if we go to develop in line with Europe. We know from Austria to today what we did in the former system that I think was wrong, but today we have to open up to Europe and show that we are part of Europe and that we want the standards of Europe, but of course we cannot compare with England, Sweden and Denmark. The English would return to Europe tomorrow if it were [[Intruder: Hvala.]] The second referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you, please time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146478	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146479	So I'd just look back on this mantra about the surplus. Croatia has no surplus, unfortunately I will say it has a slightly smaller deficit than was planned. Here when the surplus account says we're going to be in charge or we're going to have more, we're going to spend more than we earn, so we cut that deficit a little bit, and then we're talking about surplus. So Croatia has no surplus because Croatia is additionally in debt each year, reprogramming its debts, so we don't have any extra money and that's one big lie. So we have a slightly smaller deficit that's true, but the surplus we don't have I'll say unfortunately. As for the EUR, I am for one analysis, let's do one analysis of what the EUR has brought to some countries, which has allowed the retention of national currencies to enable the countries that have kept it. Let's do an analysis and see if it's good or bad, and the voice of the citizens at this point is that, that they want to be asked, they want a referendum, they want to say their position on this key monetary issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146480	Thank you. Next individual debate, colleague Maras Gordan. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues after this hill, a lack of observation and a return to the topics of our statehood, which is the session of '43. ZALOH and all that followed and what allowed us to become a country means Republic of Croatia independently, independent and should be free, a country of free people, unfortunately in many of the things we see in the Republic of Croatia today it is not so. People don't feel the perspective, don't feel that they can live here freely in Croatia, work to enable themselves and their families to have a decent life and hundreds, hundreds of thousands of our citizens leaving the Republic of Croatia. This is one law that I would judge as even unnecessary, since most of the supervisions that will be carried out by the provisions of this law in Croatian banks are already being implemented and implemented by the owners or banks that are the banks of our mothers, our banks in the Republic of Croatia. So the Austrian legislation and those countries already members of the euro area have provisions where the stability of the banking system and banks in these countries are carefully analysed, including their companies or banks owned by them. As you know, unfortunately in the Republic of Croatia most banks are owned by foreign owners, in particular Austrian and Italian banks, we have another bank that is HPB which has remained for the last 4.5 years, I want to say a little bank, I'm not saying there are even smaller banks owned by investors from the Republic of Croatia, but let's say some small larger bank has remained, where we can just testify that it is possible in the last 4.5 years to transform that bank from one bank that was a bank case if we remember all those court processes in 2008, '09, '10. and turn what was going on around that bank into this respectable business bank, which expands its business, which in some way could even those unfaithful Tomes who think that where the state property is must immediately fail, show how one bank can be placed on its feet. But what I was going to say, so within this law and everything that comes out of it is already and now the central bank can, for example, cross-reference Raiffeisen Bank or some Italian bank, control the state of our bank, or what is the state of our banking market and what is also a paradox, can be seen in these reports in recent years, that banks owned by, say, Italian banks are much more stable than their mother banks and have fewer risk assessments than they have of some of their investors or investments in their own countries. So one thing I'd like to apostrophe here is that the problem of course is in the entire system that is privatized in the Republic and the way it's privatized. Especially one very crucial segment, which is the banking system, and when we talk about this whole, the whole amendment to the law is impossible not to mention. As far as further goes, it would be very interesting to see what this means specifically that our banks have fewer risks than their mothers' banks, and in some ways they have more interest rates for our fellow citizens than the mothers' banks in those countries do, I'm specifically talking about Italy now, for citizens and for those who operate in the Republic of Italy. So, because our citizens pay so much interest, they are now at historically low levels, but yet they are 1.2% more points than the citizens of Italy pay as if in Italy the situation of both the economy and the employment, let's say, especially down at the top of the Apeninian peninsula, where traditionally Italy is more vulnerable to the economy and standards of people or employment than the northern part, which is why interest rates in Croatia are still 2 to 3% more points than they are there for example. And we should talk about this, of course, we should talk about the introduction of the EUR, too, so the SDP's position is also known that we should not go into the euro zone as we now, I guess in the absence of any success in the internal plan, the current government has estimated that the process of entering the euro area and emphasising it in every other month we see some spectacular announcements and press conferences as if it were some monumental success that would have been achieved if we started the entry process and let's say we entered in 2, 3 years. I just don't think it would be in our best interest, it wouldn't be in the interest of our fellow citizens until we stabilize the economy and start achieving growth rates that would satisfy and employment, which would satisfy and ensure our fellow citizens from this shock that would eventually happen by entering the Eurozone, increasing prices, certain instability. The least I can think of is these motives that my colleague Zekanovic used to talk about earlier because it is obviously more important to him than content at some point in time, in this case, it is much more important to me than to get into the Eurozone on our head and nose and I think that one day we will enter, but at this point, as long as our economy is not ready to pursue it, no matter what certain mechanisms have connected us, where we are practically related to both loans and everything that exists on the market, it means a lot, 80, 90% of the credit is tied to the euro, more than 90% of the savings are tied to the euro, but anyway, as long as we don't have, I would say full certainty that it won't affect the standard of our citizens, I don't think we should be chasing it, and it should be opposed. Well, I don't see anything problematic about whether or not we're going to enter the Eurozone, but when we enter the Eurozone, we call a referendum. Many proponents of quick entry into the Eurozone such as colleagues from HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic, they speak, and we have already decided that we have decided to enter but we have not decided when we will enter. So there are countries that have been members of the EU for 30 and more years and that are still not members of the Eurozone because they are wondering if you think our country is ready to join the Eurozone and this is how the referendums that then respond are discussed. And I think our citizens have absolutely the right to do that. And that's why I'm an advocate for calling when we decide that we should eventually come in and our citizens say if they think they're ready and they're ready for such a step because I don't think it's a small thing. So I think that changes a lot of people I would say even the lives of the Republic of Croatia and that citizens have the right to say and decide in their own voice whether they are for and against what does not mean that I am against what we have signed as a member of the EU when we have entered the EU and of course we should stick to it. So if the issue of passing this law is, I don't think it's a problem in itself, given that at this point, the vast majority of the things that are being defined here are being controlled by the European Central Bank, looking, analyzed through the reports of the owners of our banks and thus giving a certain assessment of the stability and of our banks. What can cheer us up as a state is that they are more stable than I said to some banks that own their own in their own countries. And on that side, a much more interesting debate would be for me at the moment, which is the dynamics of entering the Eurozone, in which way we will allow people to see this moment, or what our expectations are as EU member states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146482	Thank you. Next, colleague Josip Boric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146483	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Your Honor. So I also want to say something about this law, amendments and additions to the Law on Credit Institutions because we have heard all sorts of thoughts here in the Assembly today, and sometimes man wonders whether it really should look that way, given that this is a short law of 5 articles that was supposed to sort of regulate some future relations between the European Central Bank and the CNB, but then it started out in what we like to do in our country, it's a divination, predicting, it's always true, it's mostly true, and that's how the whole debate is conducted. So today we have heard such findings say that there are no more Croats in Dubrovnik, that it is simply the result of policies of some, that we do not live in Croatia either anymore, that we are not even a state anymore, that simply everything we hear here, especially from this last order that has now entered the Parliament in the last term, that simply so far the state has practically not existed until they have come and that they simply are hitting some new rhythm of Croatia in the future. And then a series of contradictions, comparing why Denmark didn't when it entered in '73. And she wrote that she didn't want the euro, why they didn't introduce the euro. Why do we want it when we say we want it, why Ireland is great so it introduces it and nobody's the problem. So we've heard various theories on the subject where better or worse lives and, of course, everyone knows everything. I remember when negotiations were being negotiated to join the EU and then there were people, politicians who were diversifying Croatia's future in the EU. Believe me, nothing seemed different than today's debate. The first and basic thesis then was no longer to eat homemade cheese, home cream, we will not be able to bake brandy and what I know, there will be no necklace, because once you join the EU, it is automatically banned and we in the EU will not be able to function as a state. How much of this has come true with all those other lies about being more unemployed, about destroying us, etc. And let's hear it then, of course we've entered the EU, after 5.6 years of experience since entering, it's not exactly the way it's been spelled. There will also be no around this story because there are experiences and the experiences of the countries that have entered and they have the euro and they have their currencies. So we have experience of countries that have entered the EU and those who want to and cannot enter. And we're hearing from these here today that it's better if we stayed in the company of those who didn't come in, so we're calculating in the Balkans. Yeah, right there in that European community with some rules and it's not good because it's important whether I don't know the field red or white or whether you can do this or not. The economy is nothing, it's aside and that's not how you live. It's simple to wonder where we're having these discussions and why so much defetism, depression, and such a bad opinion of the state you represent and of the citizens you represent. That's what we hear every day, it's nothing, so no one's leaving. We heard a party that is against everything, the euro, and they split up about one salary in euros, destroyed the party for one salary of several thousand euros, and they hate it. And what do they hate about it? They don't hate it, they love the euro, they love it. Ask Croats I don't know us all or don't know us on the coast, there's tourism going on, there's someone paying in euros, someone in kunas, and I think citizens still prefer to take something in euro when it comes to paying a bill. And saving in euro. And what did we end up questioning when we were listening to these discussions today? Polls don't work. What poll would be good? The one that would show that Croats are not 10% aware of the introduction of the euro, that would be good but the one where they are over 50, that is not good, that is ordered. That's how it is when the party polls count, when you get 2%, it's not good if it's 6.7. Well, it's not the point of polling it, the point of the survey is to recognize what's the problem and they recognize it. And even that famous one on the CNB pages. What is considered bad, which should be corrected in the process if we introduce the euro, which citizens are experiencing as a threat and as a possible benefit. And for a thousand citizens, it's a very good sort of thing, you could tell me one way or another. But there are parameters. So this whole story where we were supposed to go through one law and debate that should take a short while because it has all really 5 articles and edits future relations that are allowed by the European Central Bank to the CNB or to the banking system to make us better. I think that by entering a community of rules like the EU and some different behaviours, we may be bothered by it, but we must admit that it still makes us feel a little better every day, a little better, and in each segment. Whatever you want me to think of yourself. We may not want it so badly right now, but every segment and every law, directive and regulation makes us do so. So he's talking about whether or not we need the euro, a referendum or not. If we wrote it down, I think we wrote it down, we also had a referendum on EU accession. Did the citizens now misjudge who then came out and say that we want to be EU members? Here, we ask the question, no answer. Have they made the wrong decision? Although it was then claimed to be a large minority that the vast majority wanted nothing to think about but it happened. Tomorrow we'll do it on the euro or something. We've heard of all the Benefits, we've heard of what these could be some kind of dangers or defects. But that's what we heard I say from being a member or not being a member of the EU. So what happened? That we have the right to formulate our own rules and determine certain activities. So I don't think it's right for us in the assembly to discuss it in a way that, of course, I won't argue with anyone, so let everyone say what they think they should say. But about your country, you always talk about the negative sense, it's always bad, it's just a question of why we can function that way at all or why you don't leave the room if you're not feeling well. It's always something bad, it's always a disaster. And on the other side, we look at it, but it's not like that. There are numbers if the truth is wrong in terms of words. There are numbers. And we heard that today, again, nothing even matters, is that what some politicians think is important. But here, the election will be in about a year, and then we'll see if it's that or whether the citizens want something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146484	Thank you for your exposure. We have three replicas. First of all, he's a colleague of the Squibbles. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146485	Mr. Boric, in your debate, I have not heard any arguments as to why you are for the introduction of the euro or not for the introduction of the euro. I just heard you analyze what the previous speakers were saying before you did. So you just don't have a specific attitude, but you're now criticizing us who have a certain critical reference to this bill and you're saying that we're spreading defetism, how we're the bad guys, how we look down on Croatian reality. And the fact that over 200 thousand people have left our homeland, that we have a huge number blocked, that's not what you're interested in. You do not care that public change is such that 50% of citizens are against the current introduction of the euro. And you're saying, we here shouldn't be the voice of Croatian citizens who are against the current introduction of the euro but what? We should keep our mouths shut like you repeat the phrases of the governor of the National Bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146486	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146487	Comrade Schibol, you're talking about 200 grand of those who have left, they've probably gone to countries that have the euro in force or is their official currency, and we'll agree on that. We also have practical experiences a day, here I am in my community. See what exchange offices do today, how they treat those who come as tourists and what they are offered in the money change market, which means in our banking system, why Croatians save in euro and not in kunas, which are the benefits of all that, so you'll figure it out yourself. But if we don't have the right to say what you, you don't feel right, that's your problem, we have the right to say. If you're against it, there are those who will be for it. And it will show time, which is why I was describing the situation when we were entering the EU as we were then discussing and what experience they are today. And we have experience of some who have their own behavior but try to show themselves completely different from what they actually are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146488	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146489	Thank you very much. Comrade Boric, in your debate as a party representative who does not agree to the ultimatums, you pointed out one thing that is scandalous. I don't think anything more scandalous has ever been said in this House no matter what we've heard. So there have been various discussions and various comments, but to tell people, Croatian citizens that unless they like it and are satisfied with how they manage Croatia to leave Croatia, we have never heard of it. So you said who doesn't like what it's like in Croatia to leave Croatia. You have invited 75% of our citizens to move out of Croatia where if the name does not like it, they are not satisfied that the Croatian Government is ruling Croatia on your call they should leave. Well, that's scandalous, you're ashamed of that statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146490	Thank you. Here's your colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146491	Thank you very much. I don't think we were sitting in the same room, I didn't say it, no, no, you're wrong, it's said by your president with the character of Milanovic, that, read his statements, he said it, I didn't mention it in his debate today for sure, that you made it up to be convincing, and your president with character said it, who doesn't like to get out of Croatia and let him look for his happiness there. And so it's an adventure and adventure for them. Don't tell me what your president is saying with character, no, that's what got you confused. So, I didn't say any of what you're saying here today, not and it's one insolence to abuse someone's argument in such a way to make them look important to you. Not in one word, not accused, nor told anyone to leave this country. Shame on you can be.../Speakers speak at the same time./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146492	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146493	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Article 238, I think you have witnessed the level of discussion that Mr. Boris, the party's representative who doesn't agree with the ultimatums has said here to me, so this is really scandalous, I guess, in a nervous state because of all this that's happening around HDZ, the affairs that I'm pressuring Mr. Boric is losing his nerve. I'm begging you. to intervene in the following situations because speaking to someone and so aggressively [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We have not yet experienced this in the Croatian Parliament, calm down [[Thank you, Mr. Maras.]] Mr. Boric, [[Thank you, Mr. Maras.]] All will be well, [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Everything's gonna be fine. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146494	Please, Mr. Maras, thank you. So please, please. Slowly, so please both Mr. Maras and Mr. Maras continue to ask that you do not address "you" representatives, please, please address "you" as fellow MPs as colleagues, you said "you", please, come on please. Here's another violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146495	Thank you very much, Vice President. Article 238 was injured, so because of the true information of the Croatian public, it should be said that the president, i.e. the candidate for President Milanovic, did not say the words or invite people to move out of the country, but one other person did so in our country, [[All right, all right, come on...]] if you remember well two years ago it was said by the President of the Republic of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. [[I beg you, I beg you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146496	Comrade Shuker's breach of the Rules of Procedure is not, like this, let's not now use a subject called the Final Proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act for any election. Here's your colleague Shuker. Please, give a warning, back on topic, EUR-o yes, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146497	So I think the Rules of Procedure was injured, why, because counterpart Klisovic didn't lift a plate of injuries to the Rules of Procedure at the moment when he spoke to his colleague, Boric, but he did it as he spoke to his colleague Maras And according to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it can only be done when the speaker speaks. [[You're right, you're right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146498	You're right, so no one gets a warning, please come back, no more replicas, please come back, no more replicas. Let's move on, Comrade Babic. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146499	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. It is true that this debate on the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on Credit Institutions has turned into anything but a conversation on this law and you have well noticed fellow Boric, that individual colleagues approach this debate in a defetistic way. As guilty or not, they forgot that by joining the EU, we have committed to introducing the EURo into the Republic of Croatia, but when the conditions are met and when the time comes. As far as the debate itself is concerned, they will certainly be held as such both public and academic and professional, besides here you and all colleagues are warned about the EUR introduction strategy as an official currency in the Republic of Croatia on 90 pages where everything is thoroughly and professionally explained. Whether, when and at what point will it be acceptable for us, it will be decided by the Croatian government or the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146500	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146501	Thank you very much. I'm glad that you also mentioned the strategy, meaning that we have the wholeness of the process from the beginning to the possible introduction at the moment when the conditions are created, and of course there will be a lot of words and more than we've heard of today, and all sorts of opinions, but fundamentally it means that there are those who want to think about the future of the state and in a way that it is good, well arranged and that it produces and that there are different opportunities and those who simply accept absolutely nothing, whatever it may be, but for that reason or the argument doesn't state or generally state the wrong ones, and those who told us when they could, when they were power, so they've put us in charge of 80 billion or were ministers like this, I say and I don't know anything or shut down, so we need to separate ourselves and to know what's on one side the result, which is on the other side, which is not the result.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146502	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146503	Thank you very much. I will be persistent, until this anxiety with my fellow Boric is quieted down. So I don't think Croatian citizens deserve these nervous turns out 238 means Boric [[Intruder: Where did he hurt the Rules of Procedure, which point?]] 238 So my colleague said I owed Croatia 80 billion, I think come on, please gather around [[- Okay, but you didn't call.]] I know it's hard to live under ultimatums [[- Okay, please.]] And you do not accept them. [[Come on, stop, stop.]] Stop is there going to be a play? [[Stop, stop, I say stop fellow Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146504	Easy, easy, easy. Please sit down. Thank you. We'll continue the debate with your colleague, Curaj. ... Rules of Procedure continue to debate, we return to subject, no more, first abuse, warning. [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146505	I thank the chairman, so I wanted to say you're in accordance with an article. 236. Explain any injury and then sanction 239. But trying to sublime this today won't be easy because we've heard all maybe what someone found purposefully to say under this extended, I can say, the agenda point, although it's actually talking to me about this being one of the first steps that this banking union is to introduce a single supervisory mechanism that should actually ensure that EU policies relating to prudential supervision of credit institutions are implemented in a consistent and effective manner. So actually, the single rules for financial services apply in the same way to all credit institutions etc., etc., in fact as one of the first steps to introduce the EUR and then the story of the introduction of the EUR where we heard some arguments, a lot more impressions, a lot more of them, so let's say, the aspirations for some sovereignism, national consciousness, whatever it is we call something, I mean that absolutely has nothing to do with these... arguments. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we are in the company of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Sweden, those are the countries that have committed themselves to introducing the EURo when joining the EU. The only country that isn't that, which is the exception, which she asked for when she came in, is Denmark, and these are some of the countries that we've heard today, in which we live much better than we do, they're much smarter than we are. So let's say, of all of these, someone here mentions Sweden and Denmark, the same Sweden that plans in 2 and 3 years, respectively. to abolish the currency in printed form at all, so there is no food that was both neutral in both the First and the Second World War that has its history much different from ours, so the war has not seen 200 years. etc., etc. And countries like Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malta, the Netherlands, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia and ultimately Spain are those countries that don't know anything, they're not good or we don't need a bit there. The truth is that the next introduction of the EUR carries certain risks, two are the main inflation and the cost of conversion. Through all these countries that I listed, which belong to the Eurozone, the average price rise was 0.2 and 0.3% respectively. Something that could be done by smart monetary policy, even tax laws, and the level of potential inflation, is being overrun by, say, a delay in the reduction of this general VAT rate from 25 to 24 the moment we have that conversion, so that we can make some equilibre, or to mitigate it as much as possible. The cost of conversion averages 0.5% of GDP. Now, what brings us the EUR-o? Elimination of the currency risk directly related to the interest rate level, the risk of adition or depreciation that is directly linked to the economy that we have heard, which comes from foreign investment, the security of investment, means lower interest rates of more investment, lower transaction costs and higher ultimately credit rating of the country itself, and thus the possibility of borrowing, and thus lower interest rates for both citizens and the economy. 75% of today's EUR savings, 60% of the trade we do with the Eurozone, not with the EU, but with the Eurozone, I think that we have long been tied to the Eurozone and that our citizens, when you buy a car, apartment, land you want, may all speak in the euro, when you save money, all speak and save and 75% of them in the euro, which does not mean that 25% is in kuna, but other currencies. So long ago, we in our heads and everything we decided on for the EUR, a lot of us think so, a lot of us who are against doing the same thing, so only when you look at the property cards of those same people as those savings have, so it's not like they don't have in the EUR's, and why are they sovereigns? So I think it's a matter of argument here, not an impression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146506	Thank you. And the application also for finals, colleague Miro Bulj, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146507	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, secretary, we expect a number of answers to the questions of parliamentary deputies they have given, but we are the only thing we get that means without an answer, I don't know what that is for you here. However, here I am sorry once again, I repeat that there was no one here from the CNB, but the HNB is clearly not concerned, they are simply Croatian, they are not national, and at least they are in the interest of the Croatian people, the bank. I would repeat once again what was said in the beginning for the club, the strategy that was adopted, nor was it adopted in the debate in HS, nor was the public debate carried out in the way it should be, nor was it considered a referendum or any delay in the introduction of the EUR it simply had to be respected by the directive, so that this debate and it was pointless whether it had no effect on those who would make a decision on behalf, in this case HS, on behalf of us, means this is a single debate of whether it was not barren then you secretaries would also give the answers to certain questions of the parliamentary representatives, and you did not make it a minimum courtesy when talking about such topics that the tribal would come and respect your function, but Minister of Finance and Governor of the CNB, but what I told the governor was much more important is how to find waiters with special skills and cooks how to make wine with black or white wine, white or white wine. It's more important to him than this debate. Finally, we did not get an answer as to why the distinguished ministers, respected secretaries at the Ministry of Finance, why the Danes did not, delayed the introduction of the euro, whether Croatia was a richer state or maybe there was more savings in the euro or not I know what everything. Some reasons should be given to the people. But I think if we're realistically saying that the CNB was neither protecting nor protecting under this kind of management, that is. Introducing monetary... Croatian citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I said to the biggest crisis she produced, I also raised a criminal report, namely the CNB, through the Monitoring Stability Council, monitoring the financial stability of system companies where they mean 10 billion kunas has enabled Agrokor to spend the funds without money, without cover, the bonds without cover. Here's a savings credit cooperative, an franc problem, all these problems are meant to be caused by unhappiness or work in the foreign interest of the CNB and... interest in protecting Croatia's monetary policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And here we see the last days, i.e. Here we see that the President of the Republic is also calling for us to live again in Switzerland, we see that we are calling for numerous, to be introduced to the euro, we are calling for everything, but right now in Croatia the situation is chaotic, I can carry it from where I come from. So this topic is barren, this topic is not allowed in the Parliament to decide on it, it is predetermined, so that we fellow MPs are all we say in the wind. This Parliament has lost its dignity, lost its sovereignty. I can confirm that for a thousand and one reason and a thousand and one argument. However, obviously this is all that we are discussing here is good to debate but some others have decided before us, these are both the Governments and from Racan to Sanader, Kosorica, Milanovic, all these governments have put this burden on the Croatian people until they join the EU, we see that agricultural land will also go. Our employee is not protected at, at the airport, I am telling you, at the airport where we boast of increasing the number of arrivals in Split workers, cleaners via outsourcing companies, foreign companies do not receive kunas while paying people. However, we have countless problems, just as we are now talking about the euro, this is a barren debate, this Parliament has lost its dignity. We, colleagues and colleagues must return to that dignity. Of course, it will be very difficult because no one cares whether this House decides whether it will be a referendum or not. In Croatia it is normal to steal a referendum from the people, in Croatia it is normal to change monetary policy without any public debate. Therefore, we ask and expect from you the secretary of the CNB to be Croatian and national and you are not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146508	Thanks, buddy Bull. I am concluding the debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Completion of the Law on Credit Institutions, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 660 and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146509	Final proposal of the Act on Supplements to the Law on credit institutions, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. Number 660. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 78 for, 22 abstentions and 7 against the Law on Supplements to the Credit Institutions Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146510	Members of the European Parliament and of the Council shall be responsible for the implementation of this Regulation and shall be responsible for the implementation The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose a joint debate on the following 5 points: - Proposal for a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation for the Support of Peace "SEA GUARDIAN" in the Mediterranean - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia as part of the activities of the strengthening of the presence of NATO in the Republic of Lithuania - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation of the Coalition Force "INHERENT RESOLVE" - Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Mission of Peace "NATO MISA IN IRAK" - Proposal for a decision to send members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the duties in NATO command structure, NATO structure and other national (Multinational) commands in operations and other activities abroad under NATO-led by this proposal? If not, then we will conduct a united debate on the mentioned points of the agenda, i.e. on the proposals for decisions. This Decision is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 54. Defence Act and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Mr Tomislav Ivić, State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, is with us. Here you go, Mr. Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146511	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the well-respected Parliamentarians and MPs. The Croatian Army, with a fundamental mission of defence of sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia and providing support and assistance to civil institutions in cooperation with allies and partners, actively contributes to the stability of the international environment by participating in operations and missions abroad. His first participation in the UN peacekeeping mission, the Republic of Croatia, began in 1999 by sending Croatian soldiers to the pension mission in Sierra Leone as a peace observer. In addition to the UN pension missions, Croatia has started its engagement in NATO missions, and has been a full-time participant in the Afghanistan mission since 2003. So just 28 years ago, we were users of international aid and today we are contributing to building global stability and security by participating in international missions and peace support operations in part of the world. Croatian soldiers with their professionalism, humanity and all tasks represent our homeland in the best possible way. The Croatian soldier is free to say recognizable brand in the world. By participating in operations and missions, we strengthen interoperability with our allies, exchange experiences, learn from them, but we also convey our knowledge, build friendship and promote our homeland in the best light. One of the operations in which the Croatian Army participates is SEA GUARDIAN, this operation contributes to the development of maritime security and supports the fight against terrorism, contributes to the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and helps to develop the capabilities of warships of partner countries in the Mediterranean. The Croatian Army is from 3 to 24 September 2018. participated in this operation with a crew of 33 HMR members and a Vukovar missile cannon. The involvement of forces in the area outside the Adriatic Sea and the Mediterranean is foreseen through a sequence of operations called Focus Operation, proposed in the SEA GUARDIAN operation in the Mediterranean in 2019. to direct up to 50 members by boat of the Croatian Navy. In the Republic of Lithuania it is in December 2017. in a combat group led by SR Germany, a mechanised pedestrian company with 188 members with up to 20 combat armored vehicles including logistics support. In July 2018, Satan returned to the Republic of Croatia. In Lithuania, Croatian soldiers successfully trained and presented Croatian military equipment and weapons. It is important to note that the Croatian soldier is fully equipped with the equipment and weapons of the Croatian defence industry, and by participating in operations and missions we promote these top products and support our defence industry. For example, Lithuania bought combat helmets from the Croatian company Sestan Bush. This decision proposes the re-participation of the Croatian Army as part of the battle group led by the SR Germany with the possibility of sending up to 200 members to the Republic of Lithuania during 2019 and 2020. In addition to the armed forces of the SR Germany, the armed forces of the Netherlands, Norway, Belgium, the Grand Duchy, Luxembourg, France and the host countries of Lithuania are involved. Operation INHERENT RESOLVE is an intervention of coalition forces led by the United States against the so-called Islamic countries. Since September 2017, the Croatian Army has been participating in the deployment of an officer to the Kuwait Operation Command on the duty of the planning officers for a period of 7 months. During 2018 We took part in an operation with one of the headquarters officers on coordination and planning tasks. It is proposed to continue participation of members within the US-led coalition forces with the possibility of sending up to 3 members who can be deployed to Kuwait and Iraq during 2020 and '21st. with the possibility of rotation. NATO's mission and Iraq is a non-combat training mission in supporting and building the defence capabilities of the Iraqi government, stabilising the country and against terrorism. The first Croatian contingent in NATO mission and in Iraq of 7 members of the Croatian Army was sent on 22 December 2018. It is proposed to continue the participation of our members in the NATO mission in Iraq with the possibility of sending up to 10 members who can be deployed to Iraq during 2020 and 2021. with the possibility of rotation. By joining NATO membership, the Republic of Croatia accepted the obligation to participate in the work of the NATO joint bodies, primarily in the commands and headquarters. Today, most of the positions in the structure are dislocated. The members of the Croatian Army referred to such positions may be directed to NATO-led operations as a strengthening of other headquarters and commanders because of the crisis situation and other activities abroad. This Decision lays down that, in accordance with that Decision and for the period for which it is taken, there may be a maximum of 80 such references, such a decision has been taken both in 2013 and 2015 and in 2017. In the last 3 years. We've had 25 staff officers sent from those bodies to Afghanistan. What should be pointed out in particular is that the funding for the implementation of all these missions is secured in the state budget at the level of the Ministry of Defence. I propose that HS decide to refer members of the Croatian Army to those missions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146512	Thank you, too. We've got three replicas on your display. He's my first colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146513	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, of course you are calling for NATO membership, the Croatian Army, a Croatian soldier who is recognizable, not only because of what is in the missions, but is recognizable that he has had the cleanest operations only in the Storm, which was a clean, brilliant action of the winner who is an area larger than Kosovo, so we must look through these missions. What is returning to the Croatian state from NATO? Now imagine, we're putting into the most difficult crisis situations of our soldiers, our troops, and we're blocking the purchase of planes, at least combat. Well, at least, what's our soldier like? Well, at least if it was someone's interest to have fighter planes, we're being held back by a Croatian soldier losing that power. I want to know who the brake is. He gave us our diplomacy. [[Intruder: Thank you]] or incompetence [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: Thank you, answer...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146514	...in replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146515	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Bulj, the Republic of Croatia is a responsible member of all associations in which it is present, and so from the EU, NATO alliance and is responsible for fulfilling, of course, all the obligations it has made. Of course, the benefit can sometimes not be directly measured and expressed through financial effects or means, but also in the opening statement, I said that by participating in these missions, Croatia shares its experiences with other members or members of other countries. It is also a matter of increasing interoperability between our forces and other forces in the operation, and I also said in the opening statement that, specifically when it comes to Lithuania, it is difficult for this business to be about selling helmets to Lithuania that Croatia did not participate in the mission in Lithuania.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146516	Thank you. Next replica, Comrade Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146517	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State Ivić and Chief Secretary of the Ministry of Barac, we know how difficult it is but also dangerous to be a normal soldier in Croatia and let alone in missions and operations abroad, but I am only interested in the difference since I have spoken to some fellow soldiers who have been on missions and operations, and we know that with the salary they receive the diaries for when they are abroad, I wonder if there is still a difference between soldiers as to the daily and receiving certain fees of those who are in command and those who are constantly on the ground who are somewhat more exposed once again than those who are constantly at the base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146518	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146519	In fact, they are all equally exposed to such different dangers and all are practically staying on the ground because they are in another country, so there are some differences in fact there are no.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146520	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure. A colleague of Klisovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146521	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State in your presentation, you said our soldier in the peace missions was equipped with Croatian military equipment, which is commendable. I hope that equipment truly meets all those conditions that must be for the actions of the soldiers. However, I would like to know whether the Ministry of Defence has tried to present or organise, to present the results or products of the Croatian military industry within the framework of the NAMSA Agency, the NATO Agency responsible for the purchase of military equipment. If it isn't I suggest you do it because it's a good format network through which you can place your military equipment in all NATO states, and let's say the military helmets of Sestan-Busch are really very high-quality, world-class and you just need to get to know people, and this is one model, a network of information that can go through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146522	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146523	Of course, we have co-operation with the NATO agency, and sometimes Croatia gets such weapons, equipment and what is needed for members of the Croatian Army through this agency. Of course, there is one problem in selling this equipment abroad, especially in NATO member states because the vast majority of these countries have also developed their domestic industry, but this one that should point out that Croatia has developed an extremely defensive industry in the last 20 years and that it has indeed offered other very high quality products, and it must be done much in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in order to end this equipment on the foreign market.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146524	Thank you. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? If not, I'm opening a debate. The first debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is a colleague of Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146525	A number of decisions to be taken today regarding the deployment of members of the Croatian Army to NATO mission and the EU mission are held before the assembly by colleagues and colleagues. Allow a few words about individual missions. So, we have the first deployment of members of the Croatian Army on NATO command or command structure and other national and multinational structures or command. The clear point is that the proportions that individual Member States share are related to the size and strength of these armed forces, armed forces, or armed forces. So the Croatian stake in NATO command is 18% of the officers' and officers' positions and one general position. On the other hand, I think that this decision should also be renewed and supported that these officers and officers are sent to these tasks, especially as Croatian officers have participated in the so far participated in three different centres of excellence, to remind NATO's center of excellence for mountain warfare in Slovenia, these Croatian officers have been active since 2016, and since 2016 they have also participated in the centre of excellence for counterintelligence in Poland and NATO's Centre of Excellence for Cyber Defence in Estonia. I think this is particularly important, these participations in centres of excellence because they are new organisational forms in NATO structures where they are acquired are perceived not only by operational experiences, but also by the insights of how the NATO structure works, but also by the individual national units that have in their compositions of this new organisational form, which can also affect the structure of the Croatian Army, as we have seen recently here, the Minister of Defence and Vice-President of the Government explained the formation of a single Cyber Security Centre in the formation of the Armed Forces of Croatia. Another proposal is related to the participation of the Croatian Army as part of a strengthened NATO's frontal presence in the Republic of Lithuania. Here, it should be said that this entire programme is related to the presence of NATO troops in 4 countries, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Poland, with this presence in these countries being organised through 4 combat groups deployed in these 4 countries and Croatia is already participating in a fighting group in Poland under the command of the United States and here it is also proposed to participate in a combat joint in Lithuania where 7 NATO member countries, under the command of Germany, are participating. In Lithuania, Croatia participated, participated, or decided to participate from 12 May 2017. There was a mechanized pedestrian company with 188 members and 20 combat vehicles, which was a decision on one-time participation for 6 months. Today we need to make a decision to send up to 200 members of the Croatian Army during 2019 and 2020. The next proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Croatian Army in the Mission of Peace Support "NATO Mission in Iraq". This, this mission takes place at the request of the Iraqi government, it's a training mission, it's not a combat mission, and it's in support of building Iraq's defence capabilities. Several hundred NATO instructors are engaged. These instructors are tasked to train or advise technically, to provide technical advice to Iraqi officials on the one hand and to train and train and train Iraqi institutions at military academys and related institutions, and in the field of anti-arming, pardon, anti-explosive action, civil, military planning, fighting vehicles and military medicine. The mission's commander is a Canadian general and 21 members of the NATO alliance are participating. The proposal is to make a decision to send up to 10 members of the Croatian Army during 2020 and 2021. What do you actually say about these decisions in principle? Those clear things have a primarily political dimension, and this is, in fact, also the main focus in making this decision in the House and also in both the Government and the Presidents who have proposed that such a decision be made. This political dimension on the one hand has geostrategic significance in order to ensure stability and European if you will, but also globally. On the other hand, this includes strengthening the reputation of NATO alliances as well as strengthening the reputation of the Croatian military within either the alliance or Croatia as members and political alliances, NATO as a political commitment and not only as a military alliance. The other decision also has a professional dimension because on the one hand we must be aware that the Croatian Army has its reputation as one of not so many countries that have experienced combat activity because part of these members are, our members of the Croatian Army are also participants of the Homeland War which in professional terms gives our troops a special reputation in the performance of these tasks. For the Croatian military, however, this also means an additional confidence and self-awareness of their own responsibility, professional responsibility and personal and institutional improvement within these multinational operations. The military often likes to use and this term interoperability or in plain language means networking into an international institutional action that we are not always aware of or people are not always aware of which means something that may look like a simple operation to send a military, one mechanized military company outside Croatia. This assumes not only the transport that must be provided in a special way but also the resolution of a series of legal problems as one, the other, third border passes in order to reach the destination. But it also assumes a number of other logistics problems about the supply and functioning of these units in other countries that must be resolved not only financially but organisationally and logically, so that it is a special problem, a special dimension within the framework of institutionalisation or interoperability, or that we are not talking about communications that must be solved not only in the military sense of communication with units in which they work together, but also in communication with the country of origin and Croatian Command in Croatia. It is clear that this decision also has an economic dimension because, on the one hand, something has already been said about the placement of military equipment produced in Croatia but the main problem for manufacturers is that they must provide references to where this equipment was in operations, as it has acted, how the tests were satisfied or what tests t equipment could satisfy in the real situation so that these missions also contribute to this indirect contribution, and to the economic dimension of our products to other NATO alliances or to those who do not. And the clear thing is, there is this educational dimension that is from personal or operational, day-to-day perfection, practical improvement to seeing these institutional forms of improvement that all armies have, so it is also one special dimension that we need to take care of when we are going to make this decision. The HDZ Club will support making these proposed decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146526	Thank you. After you, a colleague, Vesna Pusic, is on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club. Here you go, colleague Pusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146527	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's 5 I would say specific projects, of which 4 specific missions are sent to members of the OS, so members of the Croatian Army and one related to NATO's command structures where and then people can be referred to different missions at certain levels of command structures. The participation of Croatian armies and officers and soldiers in international missions of this kind is good for the Croatian Army, it is certainly good for the missions they are on and it is good for Croatia. We have always supported this and we will support it this time even though we would like to say a few words and these different missions because, as we know, times are changing and certain missions in the new political context are also getting a new meaning or new political consequences, therefore, or repercussion. Why is it good for the Croatian army has been said several times, because it trains with other armies, has the ability to co-operate and network with members of other armies or from NATO or EU member states. It's also good because these people have had opportunities in these missions to get into situations that they may not have been in so far. Why is it good for those missions? Because where OS members of the Republic of Croatia were, they received not only the best and the characteristics of the command but perhaps more importantly, in their communication with domestic people because our people have some experience of different cultures, different religions in the same place, when they come to the country, it's not the first time they've seen a mosque like many other OS members and have shown themselves by the characteristics both written and verbally given, that they have much better or better communication with the local population, which has proved to be one of the main ones not to say the obstacle but the main criticisms that are referred to the account of the international forces in certain countries that are concerned. However, as I said, the times have changed and the presence in these individual missions is a political message, so it sends a certain political message, I think that we are able to discuss it this way today in the package and 4 plus one mission or 4 concrete missions and participation in NATO command structures, but I think we will need to assess each of these missions in the future in particular, not for military reasons, but rather for political reasons. So "Sea Guardian" in the Mediterranean, 50 members of the OS Republic plus ship of the Croatian Navy. In the meantime, this has become what I would say is a humanitarian controversial topic, given the disagreement between countries that are members of these different or these few missions that exist in this respect in the Mediterranean, which is their task. So, is it their mission, you saw from the media how controversial it is where ships that save refugees or migrants, so rescue people who flee and come from the coast of North Africa, where they can land them? The other day it was, I think about 58 people where Malta agreed to land them in Malta, and it demanded that the other EU members take over the accommodation of those 58 people, I think half of them, half of them are resolved to this day, and there is still a question of the other half, so that's less than 30 people, when you say half. Therefore, whether and to what extent this mission on the one hand is humanitarian when people are already sinking in the Mediterranean, and to what extent it is a prevention that they leave the coast of North Africa at all, in this case, in fact, most often from the coast of Libya, and that Croatia should have and should be given that there is no defined common position, should have a very clear view. What and how to behave here, whether people are allowed to drown in the Mediterranean or there is this human or humanitarian dimension of saving people at sea. The second mission is Lithuania, to the NATO mission in Lithuania up to 200 members. When we decide that, we need to be fully aware of what this is about. So it's from a point of view, for example. Russian Federation one extremely controversial mission. It sends a political message. I think we should have people on that mission, but it certainly deserves at least a conversation, so to speak, at least some debate deserves that political attitude and the consequences of that political attitude. We may all agree, I will certainly stand at the point that it is good to have people there, but I say, it is something that is not uniform, so within Europe is one controversial or has become a controversial topic, so I think we should discuss it in the Assembly next time we decide. The third case is a NATO mission in Iraq. I think it's necessary to underline and emphasize here because people might get the wrong idea, that it's not a mission that's related to an American or a group, so to speak, but from America, a leading attack on Iraq that has caused many consequences. It is a mission organised in co-operation with the Iraqi government and heading towards strengthening the defence Iraqi forces and there are up to 10 members. It is already said that people are experts in anti-explosive action, civil military planning, maintenance of armored combat vehicles and people, military medicine experts. So this should not be mixed with the war in Iraq in the sense that this is a mission because, as you know, the war in Iraq is not being waged by NATO, so it wasn't a NATO mission and that's why, I mean, it's important to underline it here. That shouldn't, but I think it would require a certain explanation, to mix with Operation No. 4, and that's Inherent Resolve or the fight against ISIL. The fight against ISIL made a lot of sense, it was a really important thing. So, against Islamic, so-called. Islamic states, these terrorist organizations. It's focused on Iraq and Syria. There are seats in Baghdad, so Iraq, and Kuwait. Up to three members, therefore, a small presence. The issue is relations between the NATO mission in Iraq and this mission of Inherent Resolution, so they are in the same country. In which way they participate or may not cooperate at all, as we know, the American President, and many others have declared victory over ISIL, therefore, that ISIL has been defeated and no longer poses a threat. So what exactly is going on here, and in what way is this mission, whether it is co-operated or not with NATO mission in Iraq, or possibly now focusing exclusively on Syria, or, therefore, I think it would also need an additional explanation of exactly what these two missions are leading from the same country and which are in line have different objectives, but one of the objectives is reportedly achieved. So, the question has now been redefined, but victory over ISIL has been reportedly achieved. And finally, the participation of up to 80 members of NATO command structures, I believe, is useful in every way, so also for our people who gain experience in this kind of international military, but absolutely and political cooperation, and that should be borne in mind, therefore, is in some way taking their full place. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that in future for such decisions we will need one serious political evaluation of each of these missions in order to be able and, as we know, time is all in such things, so something that is true in 2012 is not necessarily true in 2014, it is not necessary in 2016, it is not necessary in 2019, therefore the circumstances are changing, the situation is changing and from that point of view we really need one serious political evaluation and should indeed be able to discuss or gain insight or, or at least hear what way the Republic has tried or even managed to participate with its equipment and services in equipping NATO troops and NATO headquarters and various other institutions. This is for the Republic of Croatia any such job represents a huge opportunity and an absolute economic benefit since we are active in all these missions and we participate in all these missions, we certainly have the right and foundation to seek and participate in NATO's equipment units, given the experience we have so far with certainty I can say that in at least 4 products we are competitive, so nothing over what is possible, nothing by grandmother and uncles, but surely we are at least in 4 if not more, but in 4 I can safely say we are competitive and we can be competitive, therefore there is certainly room for progress in that field. As far as the Voice Club and HSU are concerned, we will support these decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146528	Thank you. Following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of fellow Members Miro Bulj on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146529	Thank you very much. The important thing for this diplomatic echelon to be the most important and security aspects of the aspects of the aspects of the aspects of the aspects of the aspects of the aspects, but the most important thing in the security of the aspects of the aspects, is that it is all about this, that it is important for all of us to be able to speak about this matter, that it is possible for us to be able to be able to understand the importance of the Croatian people, that we should be able to be able to understand the importance of the fact that the importance of the fact that it is not only the importance of the Croatian people, that we are able to be able to be able to be able to understand the importance of this matter, that the Croatian people in these international circumstances contribute to peace and stabilisation. Now, which is the Croatian interest, it is now a question that we have sold the helmets to the Lithuanian army, it has given some other perhaps problems in these controversial operations, because if someone else bordering with these countries is in trouble, it is not, and the force is, and Russia is the force, which the Republic has from it and what the Republic of Croatia has by sending soldiers to these areas, the question arises, and especially when we see that the abilities of Croatian soldiers collapse when we talk about combating aviation, whether we as Croatian diplomacy, the Croatian army used such operations, such involvement of Croatian soldiers in such missions, were also in this valley humanitarian ones who also had certain problems in the Mediterranean, either in Iraq, or in Iraq, now here is the fight against ISIL, and as the US president has said on several occasions said that ISIL had disappeared, that this no longer a problem. So, at this point, the question is raised from all these operations that the Croatian state has and has given the Croatian state in the diplomatic aspect, let's answer diplomatically and make good use of it, I would say that it is not, not because of what we are losing that ability. Here I can only observe, we have a problem with fighter aircraft, here in 2015 Croatian planes are being sent back to the remont, and they could be headed to, where the states are in NATO, no matter where it is not NATO aircraft, however, they are being returned to a terriblely bad job, regardless of what we are in NATO, we are NATO, these planes are being returned to parts, we are getting rid of it, and this acquisition of the aircraft is, we are now talking about the Government of Zoran Milanovic, and this government has not carried out this public procedure well, and I do not blame only the Ministry of Defence. I blame diplomacy more because obviously Croatian soldiers, if they need somewhere per population, the number of soldiers, and then the Croatian state, the MARH, the government will say no, to Lithuania, we will send 200 soldiers, regardless of what Croatia needs 100 soldiers. We do not have to exclusively protect here nor the American interests, nor are we the Croatian Army here for American interests. We only have to look at Croatian interests, and the problems and causes, where certain wars are caused by which America is one of the reasons we don't have to, and we see that they're blocking us precisely in the purchase of aircraft because I don't see why, I don't see any reason why we don't have planes. Not them, probably our diplomacy or possibly the mistakes of our diplomacy or the error of the process. So we lose our ability, and in NATO operations we give the largest number of people to show how much bigger we are for NATO than those who are founders of NATO and so on. I think that Croatian soldier and Croatian diplomacy, MORH i.e. Croatian diplomacy must co-operate closely. Not only are we going to do everything, we will do everything, we will bring all the documents, all the directives, and only because we have a secretary of the Council of Europe or any other role. Then it should be much broader to look at this security aspect and Croatian soldiers, the role of Croatian soldiers. I expect that the Croatian soldier will be paid as well as these, as will the German soldier in operations that are in joint operations, that he will be... Because the Croatian soldier is a gold we must not just drop, we must not allow this system to collapse and I expect this to open up wider public debates about all these missions that are controversial. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do not have to look exclusively at the interest of America, the interest of Germany, the interest of certain groups, the interest of certain Member States, but exclusively of Croatian interest. Only Croatian interest. For this reason, the Croatian Army is gold and the Croatian soldier is gold, a diamond, a wrinkled diamond that must not just be thrown in front of pigs, that the mud is valid, and our political elites on that diamond only realize their personal breakthroughs and their personal interests within, meaning world structures, whether NATO, any EU, any council, any other institution, we must protect Croatian soldiers, Croatian people within the frameworks in which it is possible, but exclusively in the interest of the Croatian people, Croatian economy. The diplomacy has failed to protect the Croatian military's ability, the MORH has also failed with certain shifts that I was talking about. The Croatian soldier bought, the Croatian army also bought hoodies, German hoodies who are not yet fully operational, and this is what the people of Bogo paid for. I am simply asking here that this Croatian soldier, who was created, as I said at first, in the defence of the Homeland War, be protected and only used in the interests of the Croatian people, and any international operation or anything. And not just to get someone to handcuff themselves to someone and to personally watch their breakthroughs, whether in NATO, or in the Council of Europe, whether in the UN or anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146530	Thank you, too. Now we continue with individual debates. He's his first colleague, Ante Bacic. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146531	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Secretary of State, Secretary General. In front of us, as we have heard from the Secretary of State, a series of decisions on the participation of the OSCE in various operations and missions around the world, all of which are consistent and consistent with the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Supreme Commander of the OSCE and normally based on Article. 7th century 5th Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is required that we adopt this proposal as well. It is important to highlight certain operations and missions of importance, not only for the Croatian Army but also for the status of the Republic of Croatia and the entire society, which the benefits bring, but also for how much it helps in the visibility and our armies themselves, but also for us as Croatia, as partners with NATO and our allies. It is interesting that this peace support operation, the Sea Guardian in the Mediterranean, where last year our warship of the Croatian Navy Vukovar with 33 members of the team participated in this operation, and that received all the thanks to NATO commanders and who had just participated in this operation through the sight of the exercise, but also the surveillance of the Mediterranean, increased the capabilities of the OSRH and for the safety of maritime navigation, but also for the fight against terrorism, and of course the prevention of human trafficking through the Mediterranean, and we do not need to stress in particular how important it is that our Navy is not only well equipped, but also that it has experience for these missions and operations, and we know how much it means both to us and security, not only to us but to the safety of the entire coast and all people who are bound to tourism and to fishing and in general on our coast. It is therefore important to highlight this particular operation, as one of the most important, where we have proven ourselves, as a very high-quality army and a very high-quality ally, and will definitely bring us just these new abilities, benefits for the future work of not only the Croatian Army, not just the Navy, but also the coast guard and all our employees, we know that now our soldiers and Navy infantry are in the plates, so this experience will be very helpful. There is a proposal for a decision on the participation of armed forces and in the Republic of Lithuania, we heard from some colleagues this is not only about Lithuania, but about the presence of NATO alliances in both Estonia and Lithuania and Poland. It is important to point out that the NATO Alliance has made a decision regarding the presence in the southeast parts of the territories of the alliance and that so far we have participated under the leadership of the SR of Germany with 188 members, 20 fighting armored vehicles and that we will continue to do so in 2019/20. Keep working. The next operation is the coalition forces of INHERENT RESOLVE, it is interesting because under the leadership of the United States, we know the whole problem and decades and more how long the fight against ISIL has been going on, and why it is important that the Republic of Croatia since 2014 is one of the members of the global coalition against ISIL, not only against itself, not just from the aspect of the fight itself against the Islamic state, but also the elimination of terrorist threats and in the area of normal Europe, we know in which Europe and the Republic of Europe are located, how real and how much our members must be in that part. Here it is important to highlight the training, equipment, counselling and assistance of the command structure that Croatian soldiers carry out in some way and brand, but the export product of our army which is precisely the training and equipment offered by other NATO alliance members and uses it as its advantage and tomorrow as its product which in a certain future with these helmets tied to this mission Lithuania, we can also sell tomorrow. As for the participation of members of the armed forces involved in the NATO Peace Support mission in Iraq, this is the experience that the Croatian Army and our armed forces have just had from the Homeland War and all the activities that have passed so far, right here we take part with 10 members through training of the Iraqi forces themselves through the construction of the military academy in Iraq and this is an unsustainably normal experience that our soldiers will also pass on to Iraq themselves, but also bring from there and continue here and at our universities to pass it on. As far as this latest proposal for a decision regarding the deployment of armed forces in NATO's command structure is concerned, we have committed ourselves normally and as NATO member to participate in the multinational command, that in particular for this department and the growing threats in cyberspace, therefore the NATO Centre of Excellence for Cyber Defence has been established in Estonia, we know that in our military we have just called and made a special division related to cybersecurity, it is important that we participate in this kind of NATO command structure with one general position and originally what was in the plan, and that this is 18 positions of officers and officers who will participate in the commandership itself and thus so far, and also in the future I believe to demonstrate the same willingness and training of our officers and honors, so that all of us in all our positions when we look at and the great respects of the NATO and our trust in this mission are now taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146532	There's a replica on your exhibit. Here's a fellow Uncle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146533	Here, thank you, fellow Bačić, in your debate you highlighted the possibility of terrorist dangers in the south or southeast of Europe after being defeated, for example, the Islamic State, you also stressed that the goal of all these actions is one humanitarian character, but that the Croatian Army has new abilities. I only here would have added to you that currently in the world there are 25 crisis hotspots, that none of these crisis hotspots are exasperating, but we have witnessed that many of these crisis hotspots are actually getting worse. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146534	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146535	Thank you, colleague, for pointing out, it is important to note exactly where the Republic of Croatia is located, how interesting it is as clean as the traffic centre and where terrorism can be very interesting in crossing our border. Why is it important not only in this part with the United States, but also in this part regarding SEA GUARDIAN in the Mediterranean why our forces participate, precisely for the purpose of preventing, for the sake of new abilities, and for this reason not only to protect normal and our allies, NATO allies, our friendly European countries, but to primarily train, gather knowledge, be visible enough and to prevent all possible threats and threats that threaten tomorrow, God forbid, RH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146536	We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Damjan Vucelic, please welcome colleague Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146537	The Honorable Chairman, the esteemed secretary, respected colleagues and colleagues, is now sending 80 people outside Croatia at the border with Russia to Lithuania. I think you must know that NATO alliance is neither a defence alliance nor a peace alliance. Here's where I listen to you all the time speaking NATO alliance for a peace mission, NATO Alliance defense alliance, I must remind you that NATO alliance is one branch to the Americans, to the United States. The United States is leading an aggressor policy towards other countries, destabilising the entire region across Asia and Africa. The NATO alliance only implements the policies of the United States and the Americans. You can't expect me to. that NATO is called the Defence Alliance if it participates in the trafficking of blood and the lives of people in that area, every dollar, every EURo that enters the United States, but also in some EU countries is bloody, it's bloody money. The Americans are going after the natural resources of these countries, going that their companies can work in these countries how to restore and or restore these countries are all under some cover of democracy. NATO alliance is nothing but one branch of it you must be aware of. Now there's a war going on in Yemen where over 100,000 children are starving, who's interested in having a UN report so look at it, at that time the West is just looking and not responding, here's just that you have one fact that's happening right now. As for Croatia, our president, the President of the Living Wall, was in Bego Razlož in Gorski Kotar, the whole area has problems with migrants, breaking into cottages, breaking into mountain homes, tourists fleeing from them, so there are no tourists in the area anywhere. The Croatian Army is a place in Croatia not in Lithuania, not elsewhere but in Croatia and Austria and Hungary, but Slovenia their army is within the country too. What are we doing? We're sending it to Lithuania. You must, the public must hear and know that NATO is everything but a defense alliance. We need to break that myth that you keep saying over and over again. You have chosen that we participate in this aggressor alliance that is conscious of you, I have already mentioned that every dollar and every euro is consumed with blood, it will one day be on your conscience, but at least be honest with the public don't pack it in some defensive alliances. Here, that's it, the attitude of the Living Wall that we will not, of course, support this proposal. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146538	Thank you. And the last individual debate is a debate from Mr. Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146539	We are talking today about the participation of Croatian soldiers in military missions around the world within NATO alliances and other missions, we are talking about Sea Guardian or the protection of the Mediterranean from terrorism where it also participates if I am not mistaken now it is the Vukovar rocket gunner who participates in the control of the Mediterranean against terrorism. I would just like to point out here that today what my colleague pointed out, the world was politically different than it was 10 years ago, is very different than when there was a war in Croatia or even when we entered the NATO alliance. Today we still have a constitution that has changed, at the time the United States was an uncircumcised ruler of the political and military world, and today it's a political constellation, and I'm going to say a military constitution a little different. Here, however, I would like a little bit of the Ministry of Defence, given the participation of Croatian soldiers and in that area a little insight into the situation in Syria where Russia, for the first time since the Cold War, defeated the NATO alliance in a quiet way. To pay a little attention to the crisis in Iran, to the crisis in Yemen, to the crisis in Libya. So, today we have one confrontation I'm going to say two more powers, we've taken sides, we're in a NATO pact, Russia's not so hidden today is at war against the United States against the NATO Pact. I wish Croatia had a little better influence in that NATO pact, which I mean, specifically one thing that we almost forgot, which is getting military planes. So, if the United States were to take us for a serious, relevant partner, we would have those famous hunters in Croatia today, unfortunately we don't have them. I'm afraid that's the relationship that our allies are experiencing today. Although he would say that the biggest blame here on Croatian politics, specifically for the government of the Republic of Croatia, which has not done that political engagement, has not succeeded in lobbying America in creating predispositions, assumptions that Croatia today has military aviation, and today it is not. So, we chose the side but whenever we pass laws like this, we make sure that they are Croatian soldiers who either protect the Mediterranean from terrorism or all over the world so that we are very, very careful. And one more thing that I wouldn't ignore here at all, which is the financial aspect. You yourself know that the NATO Pact has now significantly increased the criteria related to the share of GDP that states must invest in their defence, Croatia is trying to follow, and this is not exactly about insignificant funds. I would like to see him here a little bit and in this home what these funds are being spent on, which is exactly the conditions of the NATO Pact, or what Croatia is investing money in, and I would like the Croatian government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and of course I will also say President Kolinda Grabar Kitarović a little more actively on lobbying for the political interests of our country. In this case, we're talking about lobbying for, uh, getting military equipment where it obviously failed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146540	Thank you. You want some? Here, you can, you can do it. Proposer's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146541	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, I would like to thank everyone who participated in the debate on the participation of members of the Croatian Army in various missions and operations. I hope that you will take that decision to the vote and that it will be as it has always been, in general, the vast majority of parliamentary representatives and I would just like to tell Mr. Zekanovic to you, right, you were talking about that the US does not take Croatia seriously or in that sense, right, I have to say that the United States is our strategic partner and there is no dilemma at all and we have long been defined, right? What should be pointed out is that today there are also significant transfers of military technology and military technology to Croatia. that there would be no good above all political and then military relations between the United States and Croatia. I'll remind you of the Warrior helicopters we got free of charge from the United States. The United States has also decided to donate two Blackhawks to Croatia and there are a number of other projects that we are working on together with the United States, putting it in the context of the aircraft, I think it makes no sense. There was a debate in this House about both planes and the reason why the whole business wasn't realized. Croatia simply could not influence it, it relates between the US and the state of Israel and it is out of line, the possibility of Croatia at that time either, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146542	Replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146543	Dear Secretary of State, thank you for your comment, so that there is no misunderstanding, I am not against North Atlantic integration, I have, for, I believe, chosen the right side, I have just pointed out here one very important thing, that the consciousness of the geopolitical and military past 10 years has changed significantly, and that I would like us as a Parliament to have a bit of discussion and that the Croatian public is a little bit aware that the time of our entry into NATO pact is not a consolidation as it is today. As for the purchase of military aircraft, I still won't agree with you, I think it was one key moment where the Croatian government really had to lobby, make it a political engagement for us to have those planes. You'll say you couldn't, I'll, my opinion is that it could, we'll stay in our positions, I think that's where she's scheduled to mean not so much to the Ministry of Defense, I think it did a good job than the Prime Minister and the President that they've made an appointment in lobbying on that matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146544	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a decision on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the "Sea Guardian" operation until the proposal for a decision to refer members of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, we will vote when the conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146545	Proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "SEA GUARDIAN" in the Mediterranean. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I stress that. 7th, Art. Six. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia states that a majority of all MPs' votes are required to make a decision, i.e. 76 votes. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "SEA GUARDIAN" in the Mediterranean, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 99 for, 2 abstentions and 6 against a decision on the participation of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "SEA GUARDIAN" in the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146690	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The report on the request for a national referendum on the citizens' initiative "67 is too much" is submitted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system on the basis of Article 60. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. I ask the representative of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Željko Reiner, to further explain the report, please welcome colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 55th session held on 17 June this year, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request for a national referendum of the civil initiative "67 is too much" which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much". You are reporting that, a summary of the report as discussed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system was received in writing, so I will now just read you the conclusion that the Committee has made. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the list of voters and requests for the publication of the State Reference of the Civil Initiative “67 is too much” which was submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative “67 is too much” by an act of Class 014-01/19-01/01 URBROJ 361-19-04 of 13 June 2019 and that the report on the submitted verification to the Croatian Assembly. It is also called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures were collected in accordance with the provisions of Article 8c of the Law on Referendum and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of authority and local and regional and regional self-government. This would be about a report on the request for a national referendum on the citizens' initiative "67 is too much", thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146692	Thank you. On your opening argument we have one replica, colleague Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146693	Dear colleague Reiner, I'd like to know if that situation will happen the way it happened last time, and I think the Ministry of Administration, regardless of the personnel changes that have taken place. Is this exactly what happened in the APIS? And I'd like you to explain to us a little bit what happened here at the APIS because nobody actually knew because nobody had any insight into the validity of the signature. It is one scandalous act that in the 21st century, in one far-fetched non-democratic way, I am interested in this referendum, here is the third one in the series of terms of this government, what will be the position, will someone get a warrant this time that the referendum has to collapse and will the citizens who have signed the referendum issue be able to have insight into their signatures and not have it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146694	Okay, I am opening a debate on the report on the request for a national referendum on the citizens' initiative "67 is too much". The first registered on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOSTA Independent Lists is colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here's your colleague, Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the MostA, I would like to stress immediately that we will not accept this proposed conclusion. Apparently, it is a very short, simple and routine conclusion as many before, and this is about the fact that after handing over the citizens' initiative, a check of these signatures and a feedback to the Croatian Assembly is required whether the formal preconditions are met or whether a sufficient number of signatures have been collected. However, in this conclusion it is not a routine thing because it is proposed and it is crucial to call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to check whether the signatures have been collected in accordance with the provisions of the articles of the Law on Referendum and to report it to the Croatian Parliament. And it is precisely the problem that the government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to carry out a check, and this particular thing is controversial from a number of different points of view. First of all, we have a very ugly experience with the verification of signatures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Administration a year ago from past initiatives which, about this time or somewhere in June of last year, brought their signatures here to the Croatian Parliament and we all know and we all know well and remember this painful episode that the government with the Ministry of Administration, along with their commission, had stolen a referendum with the APIs, which was signed by 400,000 citizens. And I still remember very well that I have done everything, as well as my fellow representatives in this Croatian Parliament, to determine whether and objectively the report that has been submitted that there are not enough signatures. The fact is that, unfortunately, I remember very well, no representative in this Croatian Assembly, but no representative in the highest body, the highest representative body had the right to see into this material brought by the organisational committees of civil initiatives and to see the signed lists they worked on in the APIS, in the board of the Ministry of Administration and on which they found that there were 40 or more thousands of invalid signatures. None of us, after all written requests, have been able to see any of the only invalid signatures of that 40,000. And all of this unfortunately went without a major public reaction, and it was stolen, beware the referendum was stolen by a huge number of citizens who signed it, 400,000 citizens. I had to remind myself of that ugly episode that happened last year with the signatures of two civil initiatives, and now again, the same conclusion is proposed, as if we had not had one ugly experience, is again asked by the government to check the correctness, accuracy and number of signatures. Of course the government will trust it to the Ministry of Administration, they will establish a commission and perhaps the only good thing in the whole story is that this time there are far more signatures than necessary, there are twice as many signatures than the number needed. Good luck, because otherwise I would really be afraid whether the Ministry of Administration will find a huge number of invalid signatures that again no one will be able to determine whether they are truly invalid or not or if voters are not able to sign, whether they have forgotten their name or misspelled their last name, whether they have forgotten their OIB, or whether they actually do not know what number they should enter at all, or some third imaginary reason served in the government report we received last year. There's even more reason here to not accept this report than the one that was last year. In this particular case, it is an initiative that calls for amendments to the Pension Insurance Act by its referenda question, so it seeks to amend the law proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and here it was adopted by the parliamentary majority as part of the so-called pension reforms. So, this is clearly about a classic conflict of interest, that the government, which absolutely did not support the citizens' initiative in the whole collection of signatures, which did everything that the citizens could to respond to from the signing of this initiative, which in countless advertising videos advertised and led their protureferendum campaign, the money of all of us paying taxes, which is unfortunately at the end of the story the Constitutional Court said was quite okay with what they were doing because the referendum had not yet taken place, and now this same government that struggled bitterly against the civil initiative, that the trade unions would collect a sufficient number of signatures, now it is believed that it was doing a signature check. It is precisely because of such situations where the plane simply shows that there is a conflict of interest, because of this and similar situations elsewhere in the world or in Europe, because the Venice Commission has recommended, in its different opinions, the Member States of the Council of Europe that, in their legislation which regulates the referendum of the citizens' initiative, verifying this trust with a neutral, independent body. For these very reasons. According to the logic of the thing when citizens seek a referendum on the fact that, to propose some law that is contrary to the existing legal arrangement, when they propose something that is quite clear against the interest and policy of the current government, it cannot be the government that will verify the number of signatures or in any way participate in the process of determining whether formal assumptions for the opening of the referendum have been met. It is so clear that in fact I should not explain at all at the speaker of the Croatian Parliament, but I must do so for the public, and I must point out that in all opinions of the Venice Commission, in all guidelines and code of good practice, one independent body is required to verify the signature. And we have such an independent body, it's the State Election Commission. And it was also necessary to regulate the Law on Referendum that this check and everything else is done by the State Election Commission. And to remind you, colleagues and colleagues, this year we passed a new Law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. And in this law, we have defined that funding for referendum activities will be accompanied by the State Election Commission, as it does for political parties, for independent candidates in individual elections, so will civil initiatives when they start collecting signatures for a particular referendum and eventually when a referendum comes within the framework of the referendum campaign. And the law actually applies to this civil union initiative that collected signatures. So, the State Election Commission has already been active since the very beginning when trade unions started collecting signatures and they had to report on the financial aspects of the referendum campaign State Election Commission. However, in the second part of the story, when the signatures were collected, it would just be logical for the process to be fully done by the State Election Commission. Of course, it was promised in the media when Minister Kuščević said he was preparing a new law on the referendum that he was preparing, preparing and which is long in preparation and every little appears to be already at some final stage, but I am afraid that we will not see the law during this term. And I'm afraid we won't see him in the way he has been advertised recently in the media as a law that is going to revive the Swiss model of the referendum not in Croatia. They were alive to see, but it is necessary to warn that this small routine conclusion is not routinely he is reminding us of last year's episode, something that this Croatian Parliament should not vote in such a way as to send a message to the Government that it is obliged to amend the Law on Referendum, to install in this law provisions that this process of verification of signature is entrusted to the State Election Commission, as the State Election Commission participates at the beginning of the procedure when, when it comes to financial aspects and, of course, when the referendum itself is being implemented and then it is the work of the State Election Commission, or a special commission appointed for a particular state referendum. The problem is only this stage of the procedure which is actually completely unregulated and that's why it happened to us last year that the referendum was not called, that no formal conjecture was met, and we all knew that the referendum was stolen and that there was a huge number of signatures that were not recognised and no one could be convinced what was actually incorrect in those signatures. And for this reason, we will not support this proposed conclusion, we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose a referendum law on what was written in public, that at least these legal aspects that can be regulated by law rather than the Constitution will be such as to match the Swiss model of the referendum. And if I can say what it means for us at the club MOSTA Independent Lists, it is the following that it should be more significant to extend the time for collecting citizens' signatures, which means that the current 15 days should be extended to a much longer period, if we indicate that it is in Switzerland 18 months for the constitutional initiative, watch out for 18 months, a year and under to collect 100,000 signatures, slightly less than 2% of the total number of voters that Switzerland has today over a year. For the legislative referendum is 50,000 signatures and a 100-day deadline, I must say that I would even be overjoyed if this less than 100-day term was accepted in our referendum law but I can dream of someone proposing in the government for a year and a half. And not to forget one important aspect, in Switzerland, it is free to collect signatures, any citizen who is part of the initiative or for a particular civil initiative wants to collect signatures, can do so anywhere, in public places, at home, among friends, among relatives and explain the reasons of a particular civil initiative. Unfortunately, you know how impossible that is and how subordinated to the rules that exist where local units make it impossible. If these two aspects are regulated by a new law, then he will certainly have a chance to be accepted in the Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146696	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of whom the respected representative Anka Mrak Taritash will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146697	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the conclusion that has been reached by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the body that is responsible for this is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would have come before the conclusion is a sentence which I think opens up what is the problem, or what is the topic, says however, given the insufficient legislative solutions that regulate the matter of the referendum, the need to respect the procedure so far in dealing with the request for a state referendum on the citizens' initiative is "67 too much". What's a referendum? The referendum is a form of direct citizens' statement on a matter of personal importance for the tight or wider community and when we discuss this issue, we can discuss it in two ways. One topic is that it is a referendum and what should happen with it, and the other is that it was a matter of this referendum. I'm sure we can all agree on one thing, and that's that we need a law that would define the way, which would be a referendum, which would define how the process of collecting signatures, where it can be done, the way that the verification and credibility of these signatures are, so, of course, this topic really concerns us in GLAS, we're trying to get the law that will be regulated as soon as possible. What I'm afraid is that in this session this law will not be, we see that we are bombarded with a series of laws that go into first reading, into second reading, which are more technical, which are harmonising some things and this which is one of the serious topics, we are neither going to be nor going to come to this session for the simple reason which would show a series of problems which they are and we all know that when it comes to the referendum that the first problem which is what is the question for which the signature is being raised, whether to call a referendum or not. We have a partial constitutional coverage here, but we don't have until the end, and that's how it's supposed to be defined. Then the places where the signatures are collected, the way they are, and then we have the next topic, and that's the theme of checking numbers and credibility. My colleague and I see that in the debate, one of the bodies that can do that is DIP. You know who for the DIP. Do you know who checks the number of signatures and credibility for the DIP? Apis. APIS is a company that is half owned by the Republic of Croatia, half owned by the city of Zagreb and a 15-year-old trying to settle that property but failed to resolve it. The following is the signature that will be collected, will be collected for the president, so we have at the end of the year choices for the president or president of the Republic, these all the candidates that are given and we have now 8 candidates if I can count it well, I'm sure there will be 10 of them, they just said that they would like to be but would really be, they have to collect the signatures, hand over those signatures, we remember one candidate who submitted the required number of signatures that were written in invisible ink that only he saw, they'll have to collect all these signatures and then the DIP will check but won't they check it? They'll be rechecked by the APIS. But nobody's going to check if that signature that's been there a day or five years ago when it was being collected is the same as the signature. Whether the signatures that may have been collected when it comes to European elections, when someone as an independent candidate went to European elections. Whether these signatures may have been collected towards someone running for mayor or chief, you must also collect signatures. So this signature check if no one trusts anyone and it's very difficult and it opens up a series of questions and a series of dilemmas, at some point we have to say that someone trusts someone because otherwise there's nothing. So who's going to say that someone who went as an independent candidate for European elections, part of these signatures won't be placed in boxes, put different title pages, name and signature, signature, and the OIB answers and the word these are the signatures that are for the presidential candidate? That someone wouldn't be using other signatures for this. So these are some manipulations that we can't come up with, so whether the government is going to do it at this point or it's going to be DIP, it's always doing the same body, it's APIS. When you go in 5,000 signatures, let's say you need to be mayor of the city of Zagreb, collect signatures, date and know how, the DIP checks you up to the first 5,000, behind that, if that's okay, he doesn't check any further, no matter how much you gave or for the president's 10 grand. So it's something that one moment needs to make a decision and you need to trust the bodies. If no one trusts anyone, we can never get to the green branch. But what I'm absolutely sure is that one law that will define all of these topics, dilemmas and questionnaires that are above our heads or in real life, we need to have a law that defines a referendum, which will define the number of days, which will define perhaps some others, where, under which conditions, as checks and everything else are done, absolutely should be talked about, should be sat down and that should be defined, and so moreover, here, I will repeat that sentence, says the lack of a legal solution. We admit in this letter neatly that we have insufficient legal solutions, but in order to get enough, or one to define, we have done nothing. And the second topic is the initiative 67 is too much. Indeed, I must say that all these signatures that were collected, collected from one side, seemed to be working on their hand, which was the period when the EU elections were being campaigned, and then you can partly use it for that, but we all remember well that it was collected in the time in which it was in the entire May of 31 days it was 27 days of rain, that it was very difficult, in difficult conditions, to collect signatures. This was on the one hand so globally related to climate change and the conditions under which it was, and on the other hand, it was an extremely intense government campaign that was always trying to say it was unnecessary, that the solution they had was the most perfect possible. The campaign was in a way that all the media were used, videos were ordered, videos that were funded and funded from, all the citizens of the Republic, no matter what they think or don't think they funded, wanted or didn't want, all those videos. Also, I've said it a few times, and I'm going to repeat it from this pay phone. We at the GLAS Club are absolutely at the point that there are topics, there are really things that can be defined through the referendum. When it comes to this referendum 67 is too much, there are people who can do their job up to 67 and should be allowed to do so. Those who can work up to 67, up to 68, up to 70, should absolutely be enabled. But don't force everyone to do it, and those who can't, then penalize them. It's just not a good legal solution, that's what we talked about when it was a pension reform. That's what we talked about when there was signing for 67 is too much. I always talk and try to talk about things that I kind of think I understand. I'm asking any of you, would you send a tin on your roof or someone you need to cover the roof with, say, a log, and it's 67 years old, and it takes two helpers to put it on that roof so that it can replace the tins or replace the logs. No, you wouldn't. Therefore, there is a sure interest where it is absolutely impossible to work until 67, and those who cannot, not in this sense penalize them but really need it with a lot, a lot of energy and effort and engagement to define them in a different way. We absolutely advocate and think it is extremely good that the referendum really as a form of direct declaration of citizens should be, but should be defined. It is not necessary and every referendum issue should be converted into a world-wide issue, turned into a matter of left or right and should not really be used in such a way. But in order for that to be possible, we must have a law that will define it. We don't have it. I am absolutely certain that in the wake of this government, we will not even get it. A new minister or minister of the administration would somehow be in charge of preparing the law and coming in front of MPs and MPs with the law. I'm sure some new minister or minister of the administration won't go there, will not be exposed to having to answer questions he doesn't want to talk to. Until then, we have these insufficient legal solutions and it would be good to check the signatures that are needed, I hope that these 700 thousand are quite enough, that there will be no other evidence, but then we come to the question of calling a referendum and we will see what time the question of this referendum will come, because no time for now's ruling structure will be a good time. If it is going to be autumn, it will not be good, then it is the session, that is, the chairmanship of the Croatian EU, so we will either prepare ourselves or there will be presidential elections, or we will prepare for parliamentary elections and what I am sure, and that is that the ruling will try everything to make this issue as long as possible so that it can be seen, whether or not I am sure that there is no time in which or no time at all will be in charge that this referendum will be called. So there's also a need to discuss this somehow we at the GLAS Club are looking at somehow in three parts, the first part really, to define the law and define how the referendums are conducted. The second part, and there define a series of things, the second part that the topic was this question, and the third thing that is actually the most important thing. Let's follow up and see what happens to this. Is it going to be long because we now have, of course, so we'll get some new, new person at the head of the Department of Administration, so when that new or old person gets through, so when he starts checking the signatures, so how long it's gonna take to check the signatures, so the way it's going to be signed, what I'm absolutely sure is that he's going to do everything he can to do that referendum, which, in which he's touching the pension reform in which he swears that he's the best thing they can do, and I'm sure that's the best thing because I can't do better than that, it'll hardly come to that referendum so soon that he doesn't overshadow the president, so that he doesn't get into some other story, so that the first question that we have a law that we have to define some procedures, some deadlines should be respected. As long as we do not have that law, while we have as insufficient legal solutions have been stated in this matter, the ruling is extremely well-managed and we will certainly end this session of the referendum with insufficient legal solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146698	The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Arsen Bauk will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the club, as regards the SDP Club's criteria, will support this proposal, and if any other proposal comes to a conclusion calling on any other body to check the signatures, we will have nothing to do with it, just so that the procedure continues. These kinds of discussions usually come in handy to remind us of history, so let's go back to history. So, this provision came to the Constitution in 2000 at the request of the HSP, so as a condition for their support of their 5 votes then with constitutional changes because it was on the bench, so as to ensure that constitutional changes were safely made, that provision was put into the Constitution and HSP representatives voted in favour of these constitutional changes. And the first referendum to be tried under the constitutional provision to be called was the one on co-operation with The Hague court that was not called, although I suppose a number of signatures were collected. After that, there was another tampering in the constitution, as well as the result of a certain political compromise, it is to abolish the censorship needed to make a decision in the referendum. So by 2010, we can theoretically change the Constitution with one vote in the referendum, which in itself, puts less emphasis on the referendum itself and on the referendum campaign, and increases the importance of collecting signatures and processes that are in the collection of signatures. And then of course it happens that we have a strict regulation of what is less important, and we have no regulation at all of what is very important, which is the very way of collecting, collecting signatures and deciding on the constitutionality of issues, etc. Mrs. Mrak Taritas spoke about what a new minister or new minister of the administration should do first, and I have my own vision here, which is that I should propose to the government or should propose to the government to write a positive opinion on the proposal for constitutional changes that are right in the procedure in the assembly, that should be done, it should be the easiest. Because the problem with regulation of referendum matter is not so much in the Law on Referendum but in the Constitution, which is that there are no restrictions, restrictions on what signatures can be collected or what a referendum can be discussed about, which topics are not subject to a referendum statement and others that there is no prescribed minimum number of votes that would be needed to make a decision at the referendum, because then it makes sense to a referendum campaign. This is how the greatest emphasis is on collecting signatures. And when these two things are solved, then there won't be this much tension on this issue about collecting signatures, checking their numbers, etc., etc. And maybe people will make it easier to choose to sign. As regards this particular referendum issue and this request, this is some kind of warming for the debate that I assume will happen when the parliamentary majority decides to assess the constitutionality of this issue, or at least when it decides to adopt a referendum initiative or laws that are proposed without a referendum. Namely, I, it doesn't seem logical to me that the government is risking in the election year the conduct of a referendum on which a hametice would be beaten, their best as they say reform, and on the other hand by accepting these proposals doesn't really lose much because they step into force in 2030 and some or something earlier, and then we can expect that with the fig in their pocket they will accept it, and after that, when they first get into the opportunity and when tensions around this topic fall, they will do the same again, and then they are just naturally assumptions that we can and we don't have to assume exactly. We supported this referendum initiative, we called on both our members and our voters to sign, most of us personally signed a request for a referendum, and it is logical, therefore, to support those decisions that will lead to the achievement of the objective, which the referendum initiative has outlined, but we must also not mention that contrary to the previous customs, the government has also had a promotional campaign against, allegedly against, this initiative, and in fact, my impression is that it has only further motivated people who have already been irritated by the injustice that this law has already caused to sign further. So I think that one part of the credit for the success of this initiative is at least part of the collection of signatures belongs to the government, and it is a shame not to mention it, that they are given one recognition. After all, this campaign is also the minister who was not so focused on the public during the current part of his term of office vinnel among the top 3 or top 4 of those ministers whom the public considers to be the worst doing their job, so here's what he needed from the other one who counted the signatures the same. This one, so we're going to support this conclusion, we want, of course, the government to count the signatures, to determine how many signatures are submitted. I expect this time, given the large number of signed submissions, that the check will be carried out on a sample and that it will be somewhat faster and slightly less cost than this last one, and in this sense, of course, we are waiting for this autumn debate on this referendum when we will still be a little more dissonant than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146700	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST, a colleague of Sladolev has asked for a break, will ask for a break as far as I understand it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146701	On behalf of the MOST Club, I am asking for a break on the fact that we are consulting what, so we are discussing a referendum, and a man is coming to the Croatian Parliament, so the former minister in the most legislative body, which is therefore the murderer of the referendum. We find this unacceptable, so HDZ was otherwise protourendum all the time, so he was when he had no referendum initiatives on his hair. Now we also have the fact that he will also represent his views in the assembly, we do not believe that the relationship to the referendum will change if another minister especially Josipa Rimac comes, we colleagues from MOST went to the Ministry of Administration, we asked for those 30,000 signatures so-called. illegal, never got them. We believe it is scandalous, therefore, that the killer of the referendum is coming to the Croatian Parliament, that in his resignation he has not explained a single item, which is why he resigns, but as a weight of the government, and it would be fundamentally his resignation that he actually brought down the referendum on the electoral law. We ask the Croatian Parliament to call a referendum on the electoral law, we consider it one of the main reforms in the Republic of Croatia, and it is impossible to implement referendum initiatives when a party sometimes fits, and when it does not fit according to the authorities, the Most Independent Lists is always for referendum initiatives, whether it suits us politically or not, because we believe that the citizens' will is the most important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146702	Thank you very much. Of course I'll take a break. So I'll see you in 15 and 20 minutes. It's 3:10 a.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.20 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146704	Thank you very much. Dear Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, right here in front of the HDZ Club, I will brief on the proposal for this conclusion. In accordance with the Law on a referendum, the President of the Croatian Parliament was sent by the citizens' initiative "67 is too much" to request a referendum with the delivery of signatures as evidence that the call for a referendum was requested by the required number of voters. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System concluded to the Rules of Procedure that the signatures were sent for verification to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that the verification report was subsequently submitted to the Croatian Parliament. It is a common procedure, and I think that we should all essentially agree on this proposal for the conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I also don't think it's a good thing to keep doubting the work of our institutions so in this case and the Ministry of Administration that will carry out this signature check. We have concluded ourselves that the current Law on the referendum has certain gaps and that, accordingly, we need to act according to practically the usual procedure in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, which is why we have reached this conclusion, and it is certain that in the near future we will adopt a new law on referendum which will resolve the existing legal gaps and we will certainly have a more complete referendum law in the future that will more precisely prescribe all phases of the referendum procedure, and thus we will no longer have such misunderstandings as are currently being highlighted. Here, according to everything I say, the HDZ Club will support this committee's conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146705	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146706	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, says the initiative "67 is too much" and it is really too much, the HSS supported this initiative and we will always support it because 67 years of working in today's conditions is really too much for our workers. Unfortunately, the "67 is too much" initiative has collected more signatures than HDZ has received with its partners in the past parliamentary elections. The initiative has collected nearly 50,000 signatures more than HDZ has won with its partners, and HDZ is now managing the state without any checks. I believe that this refusal of the ruling, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and I must say that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is equal to HDZ because they are the main partners, and the chips only raise their hands as they are told. We believe that this conclusion that came from the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure is a conclusion that the HSS will definitely not support because we believe that so much chemistry about allowing a referendum in Croatia is really too much. I do not know what condition it can be satisfied that Croatians would go to a referendum on a very important issue for them such as this initiative, so we also had some initiatives before that, and we know that a referendum can be held in Switzerland with 50,000 collected signatures. Unfortunately, we have sold out a lot in Croatia without holding a single referendum and asking our citizens if they agree. The Croatian economy has been destroyed and several thousand people have left Croatia and we should ask our citizens what they think. However, I do not know who will be more encouraged to try to make some new initiative for the referendum if this initiative, with nearly 800,000 signatures collected, is not enough to hold a referendum without any significant checks, double what is needed. We consider it to be taken in one particular sample and that would be enough to determine whether the signatures are valid or not. Just because the last time the signatures were being examined when they were gone, when they were destroyed, when they could never be seen again, those signatures that weren't valid, it's simple for anyone who had a mind to understand what was going on here and how citizens wanted to hold a referendum. These collected signatures of the "67 is too" initiative are citizens' wish to hold a referendum. And I don't know why they're so opposed to it. I understand that their most significant reform will fall, as they say, but this is the will of the citizens. It is not the will of the citizens of one minister who campaigns against the collection of signatures and against this initiative with taxpayers' money who have signed this initiative here. A referendum like this should be held. So in what other land on this earth does the globe have what's in the Republic of Croatia? It's better that they gave these money to treat seriously ill children or put it in a pension fund and at least increase the pensions to our pensioners. How long are we gonna be like this, how long? Well, it is clear that the threshold must be reduced, that citizens' initiatives must be adopted and citizens' wishes to hold referendums, so there is no greater democracy than the referendums that the citizens themselves asked for with their signature. So you're just confirming by this that you're an unnatural government, that you don't respect the will of the people, their signatures and their desire, I don't know how long the people will choose you with these 700,000. We have 3.75 million voters in Croatia, HDZ with its partners received 700,000 votes about plus tokens of harassment and destruction of the entire Republic of Croatia. So where are we in the last 25 years? We've all sold out, there's nothing left, what resources can get us out of this situation we're in. And despite all this, no respect for the citizens' will at all. I ask you no longer to draw such transparent and poor conclusions and to conclude that the referendum should be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146707	Now we're going to move to an individual debate, so the first one will be a respected representative of Snježana Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146708	Thank you very much, Vice President. These initiatives are actually proof that the government is leading us in the wrong direction. In recent days, we have had the opportunity to see a variety of Kuštevićs who, if there were moral policies, would never have sat down in ministerial chairs. When such and similar people make up the fate of the pensioners, it's actually a question of how much they actually think and if they even think about their citizens. Bad decisions can fall, the 67 initiative has shown and proved this. We also had a peace reform in 2002, the second pension pillar destroyed the pension system. The fact that Croatian pensions today are 37% of the average wage is the worst result in the EU. It is clear that there is no money for pensions, it is clear that the Croatian government has impoverished workers, insulted and drove away youth and ruined a dignified age. Maybe now that there's a gentleman who can't count, who can't count the signatures and his real estate are more referendums and more successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146709	Thank you very much. The next debate is the respected representative of Hrvoj Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146710	Your Honor, here's to the referendum again. It is interesting that the government of Andrej Plenkovic has been hit by even three referendum initiatives if I am not mistaken. The first two were, the first two attacks, the attacks were successfully rejected in a simple way, and that was by counting votes because we ourselves know that the key role has now been played by former minister, Minister Kuscevic. And here we come to the third referendum initiative, and now what I'm interested in, and interested in the entire Croatian public, whether the same pattern of behaviour will be applied as the boredom, or maybe some different form will apply, but I don't know who's going to answer this question, here maybe you vice president of the assembly because you were in front of the rapporteur board. Whether or not I have to get an answer now, so I don't want you to ignore me because I don't have anyone to answer, whether the same pattern of conduct will be applied or whether all the signatures will be counted or only a relevant sample will be taken, as my colleague Bauk did at that time was Minister Bauk. Are we going to go with this method to save a little bit, or are we going to go with a radical method to try to challenge this referendum? That's the first question. And the second question is what criteria determine when only the relevant sample will be taken, and when will absolutely all the signatures be counted? So, who is this, who is this person in the APIS, perhaps in the assembly, in the government, at the Ministry of Administration who determines when the method will be applied? Here, this is now one question of all the questions, I am sure all the thousands of volunteers who have worked for this referendum, and with the moss have done the same volunteers for both of them and for the third referendum, they are now interested in this, meaning which pattern of conduct will be applied or which rule is applied and who, who decides it. So I want an answer to this question, meaning as a representative of the Croatian people in the highest home of the Croatian people that the Croatian public is hearing the answer. And if there is any method of being, it means in the APIS whether it will in the same way enable or disable all those who have given the signature to have an insight into their signature. And someone asked a question today, was it a colleague of the Podolnjak, when, for example, A colleague, Petir, brought here the signatures for her candidacy for the European elections, after Prime Minister Plenkovic refused to put her on the list or wanted to, so she did not want to because they agreed on such a matter, no one reviewed her signatures. So no one was looking, she was not just saying one example, neither was Colindi Grabar Kitarovic, nor was he looking at Ivo Josipovic 5 years ago. So, what kind of pattern does it even mean, what is the rule, what are the signatures being reviewed? Those who can potentially endanger power or other criteria. So that's the question of all the questions. What happened in Croatia during the term of office of this government is, I will say, an outrageous world scale. When you try to convince someone outside, here last night means a fellow Kovac who has a great international experience and many colleagues outside when trying to question the referendum, one referendum question for only 0.5% of signatures, I'm sure it won't be easy to stand by that decision your government made, which your Minister Kuscevic made, which APIS under the control of this government means made. It's incomprehensible. In fact, it's one method that I'm trying to find a comparison now, not to be as drastic as the worst totalitarian regimes, but in one soft way, it's not a pendreka, it's not a prison, it's not a boot, but the will of the citizens is disabled. The most important democratic right directly to the democratic right of citizens to decide their fate, to decide on key issues for which those assessments here have been disabled. And I wonder why the government is afraid of the referendum today, what's the problem? This question "67 is too much," so some are against it, but I would let the people really decide at the referendum, let them say what they think. But if the people have sinned, he has sinned, so he has sinned, and it is about him. On the other hand, when we talk about the EU, everyone is calling for the will of the people. Today we heard it here several times when we talked about the European Central Bank how the Croats voted to join the EU and what is done since the introduction of the EUR further has legitimacy. And it was legitimate for the Croatian people to decide directly, and when it comes to some other topics, then it cannot be decided. And in the end, he would say something about here, something about the announcement that our great leader is going to mean the current eating of our homeland, Andrej Plenkovic, who failed to escape to Europe, I am very sorry, I feel bad for him because I know that these are huge losses, and it also shows that he is quite upset and I feel bad for my country for staying here, and I am glad for Europe because Europe will not have an oligarch who has Croatia. I wonder if Andrej Plenkovic, on the subject of the new Law on Referendums, will yet make any democratic changes or will fearing the democratic will of citizens pass one of the most restrictive referendum laws in Europe? So we will often look up to the countries of Western Europe, for example. Swiss specifically and we'll talk when we talk about the standard of this, that's great, and when it comes to the referendum, that's not good. Why is it wrong for a liberal law on referendum, which is wrong for the people to decide directly? But not to be too long, ask yourself a few questions, ask for an answer, look for this session. So, Vice-President of the Assembly, since you were a rapporteur in front of the board, I'm looking for an answer to the question, will all the signatures be numbered just one small sample and will there be the same way of verifying or seeing the validity of the signature? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146711	Thank you very much. I can answer you, I don't decide, so I can't even answer you, but the next individual debate will be a respected representative of Mira Bulja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146712	Thank you very much. Here is the topic that is very important for democracy, it is also in the Constitution in the first article, the people choose their power, the power comes from the people and the people can decide by direct democracy. The impact on the referendum is so great that it is amazing, here we now have of course on the wallpaper Lovro Kuščević and everyone mentions it, but it is the politics of Andrej Plenković, Lovre Kuščević is only the performer of these works. That's why my colleagues here are mostly HDZ wonders why they didn't then vote to go to a referendum on the electoral system as the most important referendum, which will always surprise me. For what? Because we asked Lovra Kuštević of the then minister, we from the MOST Club to show us 40,000 signatures that have been declared invalid. We didn't get them until today. However, the referendum is very important, a referendum by the Triba if political parties for their bids mayors, commissioners, all who collect signatures can collect wherever they want. Why can't it be a referendum? We can start here from the fact that here's my colleague Bauk proposed to me was while he was a minister that only signatures could be collected in the offices of the state administration or somewhere, I don't know how to be exactly limited, which would be extremely embarrassing and which would be a direct blow to democracy. That's what HDZ is proposing right now, and it's pushing it. Why wouldn't all those who wanted to sign for certain referendum initiatives be entitled to referenda questions, why? But Lovro Kuščević as the gravediver of this, graver of the referendum on electoral law, amendments to the electoral law that collected the petition this association did not allow. I remember, I was a co-ordinator in the Cetina region when there was a signing collection, we picked out the name and last name of the representatives in 2014, we collected a huge number of signatures in that area, mostly in Dalmatia, and the simple people asked for it to come out, but there weren't enough signatures then, because nobody wanted, I couldn't, but now that enough signatures have been collected, which is why I didn't support it. So this initiative that has twice as much, this referendum question, twice as many signatures, which is why, here I am colleagues from HDZ that we don't immediately give it to us as parliamentary representatives, that the people decide whether they are for it or not. I simply give the people democracy into my hands and I see examples of Switzerland, here I see that the president is in Switzerland, she called for Switzerland, that Croatia will be like Switzerland. However, we have become here I do not know at the level of North Korea about the issues of expressing the democratic will of the majority, we are violating the Constitution, we are violating the first article means a referendum of direct democracy is what is in the first article and therefore I do not see any reason why the referendum would not be called and the Republic of Croatia is its independence. With the will of the Croatian people from detachment from other states, from other republics of the former state essentially paved its way towards independence, and that was when I think the dictator Milosevic led and then succeeded. However, now that Plenkovic has not been able to carry out this referendum, and therefore I am surprised, here are my colleagues who are here, here is my colleague Stier, who was not louder, you fellow Reiner who were not louder and said so the referendum is the right of people if the People's Initiative decides to collect a sufficient number of signatures, this initiative now 67 is too much, why is there no referendum being called? It's democratic, it's minimal what we need to do to make our people decide, it's a commitment, our constitutional obligation. However, it is obviously still a mental assembly in the Croatian people that we simply have to be obedient to the one who manages at the moment, and at this point is still Andrej Plenkovic and thus you act. Once again, a great dissatisfaction and the proposed conclusion, I think the trial is a conclusion immediately or, and I call for what we have declared 40,000 invalid signatures to be valid, and that we have never received these signatures in HS, so one initiative has been thrown away, it has spit out to the people 400 000 people. 400,000 people spit in their faces on their efforts, their work, now you imagine what it is to organise a referendum in such a short time, all those books, records, people, volunteers, so all those people and people were able to collect, that civic initiative, the signatures, and you threw it under your feet. And the only thing that is right for any referendum to be done is that I agree with the question or disagree, any initiative if there is a sufficient number of signatures, the people have to decide, no violation of the Constitution is either this, nor is it a violation of the Constitution that the people asked for amendments to the Electoral Law, but at a time you could change the conditions for a referendum at entry, in a referendum on entering the EU, where 50 + 1 vote was no longer required, 50% + 1 vote minimum vote to come out of the vote, then you reduced it in the election year, and now you're holding people back and I think that the key problem here is essentially this direct democracy, the brake of direct democracy, the right of the people to decide, we call on Switzerland, in Switzerland are calling for referendums on most issues of environmental, economic, social, social, numerous social political issues, meaning all the issues that are relevant to the regional and regional spheres of culture, which become regional and culture through the dialogue. We don't try to get along and disagree in some things, but if one initiative has collected a sufficient number of signatures, I don't see any reason not to call a referendum and the people decide on any issue, of course issues that are in accordance with the law, the laws of the Republic of Croatia. So in Switzerland, we have enough environmental issues, and even the question of whether bulls should be kicked by horns, it's a referendum issue in Switzerland, the people decided on it. However, we are talking about no important issue, privatisation, introduction of the EUR, a number of issues that are not allowed to be discussed publicly and a referendum. So we have enough experts for people who will be both for and against, but the referendum is stalling. I believe that this HS would triangulate with its conclusion, but not with such a conclusion, but with a conclusion where it has been collected more, twice as much as the required signatures in very difficult conditions, so it is clear from this it means to facilitate the collection of signatures, to extend the deadlines of signing is it not easy to organise civil initiatives throughout the Republic of Croatia to collect signatures, and even if we limit them, what is proposed by HDZ or what is nice fellow Bauk as minister suggested to collect in special offices, then it is the end of democracy, direct democracy, it is a direct blow to the Constitution, and of course it will not lead to good, that this will lead to an even greater revolution of people, do you imagine how these people feel, here is now these 700 000, 700 000 people are collecting signatures, and we don't have what to wait for, we call it, some people decide, also imagine how the people who have been able to choose to do so now? It can't go away when HDZ is in power, it can't go away when the SDP is in the majority. Let the people decide once, and in particular on this issue, I think it is unequivocally unequivocally that HS would triangulate this without the conclusion of any additional which we at the MOST Club disagree with, and that is our obligation to sign, and these counting, counting, I do not believe that counting and counting, 40,000 has declared the invalid signatures of the initiative, 40,000. We asked him to give us an insight, we didn't get an insight, the only thing I did when I asked for that was when the chairman of HS forbade me two days of right of speech, and we never got 'Cause we have to, buddy Stier. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Stop this blow to democracy. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, we have one replica...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146713	...respective representative of Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146714	As a result of the minutes, so as regards the initiative, let's choose representatives by name and last name, although no referendum has been formally called, the amendments to the Law on Elections in HS that initiative have been accepted, so we have introduced a preferential vote in elections for HS, with some restrictions on the type of electoral threshold for this, but I believe it is justified and as regards this second proposal, which was also because of the accuracy of the proposal of the Ministry of Administration but also possible in other areas of state bodies, but in order to compensate for this single technical difficulty, it was precisely proposed that the signatures be collected in one version of state bodies, so not only in the Offices of State Administration, but also in other areas of state bodies, but in order to compensate for this single technical burden, it was a significant time limit for the collection of signatures which would ultimately have had the same effect, So, because of the record, [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Intruder: The Answer of Respected...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146715	...Advocacy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146716	Yes, this initiative was chosen by the representatives by name and partially pressured, and then it came down to the fact that one MP was chosen preferably, of course that three MPs were asked to choose the name and last name di would have been a much smaller influence of political party leaders on the relationship on the list, simply that would have been what was required, however, that pressure succeeded. And as for the collection of signatures, I cannot agree to give people their signatures in public administrations, offices, places. Just like when the president's signatures are collected for the candidate for the President of the Republic and for the other candidates, mayors, mayors, independent lists, anything that collects the candidate lists of a group of voters, the same conditions should be in every place to collect these signatures, not limit them to an exact office and now some grandmother from the Velva will burn with, ic to the office in Split il Sinj I mean an impossible mission. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146717	The next individual debate is the respected representative Marko Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146718	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the item of the agenda is the report and acceptance of the conclusion of this report and I am in favour. The item of the agenda is not a debate on the referendum at all as we see what the history of this referendum is and possible voyeurism in the future to see what the referendum should look like. However, when it comes to the referendum, about the referendum initiatives, and this theft of the referendum, stealing the referendum can be carried out in three ways, it is the first theft that the organisers of the referendum initiative can carry out in a way that is signed by citizens who have not signed from the dead, children to those who have signed on some previous initiatives. This theft is a theft where someone steals someone's civil rights and I think that stealing is the most dangerous thing in the world and can be tied to a referendum initiative. Another theft is a theft that may be carried out by some small-scale government that will be declared invalid thanks to engineering. These first two thefts are thefts that we can hardly prove. The one we can, and as regards the theft of so far's procedures, is that because we are lovers of some pure referendum we vote against this conclusion and prevent the procedure from being carried out in accordance with current practice. It's also stealing a referendum and stealing a referendum initiative, as we speak. When it comes to this referendum and the procedure that I thought of it, I think it should be implemented because it has been implemented in previous cases, and the content of the initiative itself is 67 too, 67 is too much for a society that is unable to bring social change, for a society that these social changes must bring thanks to the referendum initiatives, not with those that citizens have chosen. Each referendum is also a failure of the delegation system. The delegation system, when citizens delegate their right to say parliamentary representatives, and these representatives play them on any basis, whether they do what they say they will not do or otherwise play the will of the voters, then the referendum is beneficial because citizens actively participate in thinking things through the way of the first person of the plural and first person of the one, to realize that everyone is responsible for what social we are. This initiative is an initiative that ultimately concerns what our pensions will be or what our age will be. We need to agree and accept that it's not the same age as someone who has 1,000,00 kn pensions and someone who has 15,000,00 kn pensions, that time doesn't go the same way, that time can narrow down and expand, that it can be shortened, accelerated, slow down, and that it depends on what kind of income we have and what we can do. Consumer society can spend anything but a man. The peace system that does not take care of man has spent pensioners through consumer logic and consumer society logic. Peacemaking can be the ones that have been done after full-time work, can be the ones who are privileged or who are according to special regulations, but can also be made-up pensions. What do those imaginary pensions look like? Well, for example, made-up pensions are the ones you deserve after your imaginary job. The imaginary workplace is a place in the Croatian Parliament. And when we talk about referendum initiatives and about who is a fan of the referendum initiative, it is everyone who wants the referendum to take place according to regulations and procedures, and if the regulations and procedures are not good, then other laws and regulations and procedures change, and under the current law, we must not disable any referendum initiative, or this one now. That's why, in my own name, and I'd like all my colleagues to support this conclusion whatever we think of it, because if we don't support it, then we've just become thieves of this referendum initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146719	Thank you very much. He will now speak finally on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club, the respected representative Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues after this relatively brief debate on an extremely important topic because let us not forget this union citizens' initiative, the request for a legislative referendum has been signed by nearly 750,000 citizens almost exactly twice the number needed by the number of voters and indicators we received from the Ministry of Administration, so 373,000, twice the number. Every fifth citizen in the Republic of Croatia has signed a request for this legislative referendum. And we at the Most Independent Lists supported the Union's initiative, we talked about it in the Croatian Parliament and we tried to convince both the government and the parliamentary majority that it was a huge mistake to insist on a pension reform that would cause a great revolution in the public, citizens, trade unions, a reform that was legaled without the consent of social partners, of course primarily unions, without respecting the positions we have said here as opposition clubs, without respecting the fact that pension reform was carried out only in some segments, and that in no way did it have any courage in those painful points relating to those privileged or pensions under special regulations, which was also necessary for the government and parliamentary majority had no courage. We said we would not support the proposed conclusion calling on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose, to carry out a check of the number and credibility of the signature, and therefore propose an amendment to the proposed conclusion calling on the State Election Commission to verify the number and credibility of the signature and to report to the Croatian Parliament on whether formal assumptions for the calling of a referendum are met in accordance with all the recommendations, opinions and guidelines of the Venice Commission and of the Council of Europe, which requires that all tasks related to the organisation of implementation relating to the state referendum, especially when it comes to civil initiatives be carried out by an independent body, and not by the Government and the other dependent state bodies. And so the only solution to our legislation is the State Election Commission. We note that it is already running a check on the financing of the referendum activities of civil initiatives under the law that this Croatian Parliament has adopted this year. There is no more logical solution than to entrust these matters to the State Election Commission. And in the end, it is absolutely undeniable that the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this particular case would find itself in an absolutely classic conflict of interest if it were to verify the number and credibility of the signature. So, the government that proposed the pension reform proposed by this Croatian Parliament, which is behind the Pension Insurance Act as it is now in force, cannot be objective, nor has it been all this time before the signatures were collected, when the government carried out an anti-referendum campaign financed by the money of the budget bonds, it cannot be an objective, neutral and impartial body to verify the number and credibility of the signatures. It is clear to us that this time there are enough signatures that there are no ministers and there is no commission of government that would declare 400,000 or more invalid signatures, but the principle of principle is undeniable that the Government must not do so in this or in any other case. That is why we propose that this work be entrusted to the State Election Commission and that is our amendment to the proposed conclusion proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146721	Thank you very much. I would like to conclude a debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions, first reading, P.Z. Number 657. Have a good afternoon. The session was interrupted at 16.01 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146722	We move to a statement on the amendment to the Report on a request for a national referendum on the citizens' initiative "67 is too much", is the applicant of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and the debate is concluded. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists submitted an amendment. We have the first amendment, or one amendment, which is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please the representative, the Honored Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Zeljko Reiner and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to declare the amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146723	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected colleagues and colleagues, given that the existing law governing the matter of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia is not prescribed who is carrying out the number and credibility of the voter's signature but given the current practice of which it has been warned on the occasion of the debate on the request for a call for a state referendum of the civil initiative "67 is too much", the Committee proposed that the Croatian Parliament be rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146724	Thank you. I ask the Government's representative to appear, please welcome the Secretary of State, Your Honor. Katica Prpić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146725	Thank you very much. The government is shown not to accept the amendment for the same reason as the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146726	I thank the secretary of state. I'd like a statement from my esteemed colleague, Robert Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Our amendment suggested that instead of the government of the Republic of Croatia, the State Election Commission check the number and credibility of voters' signatures in the request for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much". The fact is that it has been a practice so far, that this Croatian Parliament has entrusted these tasks with the voter's signature checks to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, even though it is nowhere in particular by law, no law is prescribed. The fact is that it was a bad practice because the government is not an independent body and has proved in the past that the government in doing this job and acts as an independent body. The National Election Commission in a series of laws is authorised to carry out certain procedures relating to the implementation of the referendum or to the verification of the financing of citizens' initiatives. The State Election Commission is a permanent and independent state body, and it is also recommended that the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe check the signatures of the initiatives required by the referendums. It is for these reasons that everything is in support of the need to break up bad practice and that this job should be entrusted to the State Election Commission as the only permanent and independent body qualified to carry out the tasks of the signing, the number of signatures and their credibility, so we are asking for a vote on our amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146728	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-09-0.u146729	Report on the request for a national referendum of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much". The applicant is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, the debate is closed. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists submitted an amendment. We had a statement on the amendment earlier in the session. The vote on an amendment which the applicant or government do not accept. So you, we have one amendment to the Alliance of Independent Lists Club, so it's not accepted by the motionary. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes, so I am then voting on the next conclusion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to verify the number and credibility of the signature of voters and requests for the call of the State referendum of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much" to the President of the Croatian Parliament, which was provided by the Organizational Committee of the Civil Initiative "67 is too much" with an act of class: 014-01/19-01/01 URBROJ: 361-19-04 since 13 June 2019 and that the report on the implementation check is delivered to the Croatian Assembly. It is also called upon by the government of the Republic of Croatia to verify whether the signatures were collected in accordance with Article 8c. Law on referendums and other forms of personal participation in the exercise of state authority and local and regional (regional) self-government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 102 for and 9 against the conclusion proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. We are now on the agenda, first item: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 657; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85 Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia. 172. The Rules of Procedure of HS. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to this item of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal. State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, Honored Darko Nekic. Here you go.
