ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128856	I thank Mr. President and welcome all MPs and MPs, so before you is the Proposal for a Law on the Source of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities stipulates that members of national minorities with the aim of promoting, preserving and protecting the position of national minorities are to elect their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through councils and representatives of national minorities in self-government units, therefore, municipalities, cities and counties. Members of the National Minorities Council and representatives of national minorities shall be elected directly by a secret vote for a period of 4 years, and on the election procedure and other issues related to their election, the provisions of the laws governing the selection of members of the representative bodies shall apply accordingly. The 2012 Local Election Act It was prescribed that the selection process of members of councils and representatives of national minorities would be regulated by a special law and that is exactly what is currently in front of you. The adoption of this law has also been established through operational programmes for national minorities in 2017, 2020, and this electoral law proposes to fully regulate elections for councils and representatives of national minorities. Which are the basics, here I will try to point out in a few sentences the basic issues proposed by this law, so other than prescribing active and passive voting rights, the time for holding elections is prescribed. According to this proposal, this is the first Sunday of October of every fourth year, it is prescribed that the authorised applicants are in line with the provisions of the constitutional law, the association of national minorities and members of national minorities, or voters, depending on the number provided for in the constitutional law. A ban on running, therefore, for police officers, active military personnel, municipal commissioners, etc. and ban multiple candidates in the same constituency. Along with candidates for representatives of national minorities, the candidacy also lists the candidate as his deputy. So, so far, the representative has had no deputies, and this law introduces that newspaper. The provisions concerning the publication of a list of candidates for council members and candidates for representatives are prescribed to be published on the advertising board and on the web pages, so we also abolish that part in the public ballots, in order to minimise costs for units of local or regional self-government. Election promiscation is required with this law not to provide for provisions on electoral silence, it is also a newspaper, and we think it facilitates the implementation of the elections because it is the bodies that play an advisory role in the work of local and regional units, so we estimate that the exception, this exception, would facilitate the implementation of the elections. It is also prescribed the right to the cost of election promotion. It is also prescribed that the electoral authorities are, therefore, all those bodies that normally conduct the elections, from the State Election Commission onward. Compared to the voter count, it is prescribed that if after counting the ballots, it is determined that the number of ballots is higher than the number of voters who have joined the vote, the voter's committee will draw up an official note in the record, and the competent electoral commission will decide whether the excess ballots could affect the result of the vote. Depending on that decision, the results obtained will be respected or the re-election will be determined, so this also represents one newspaper and allows for more flexible treatment, given that according to other electoral laws, the situation is nevertheless different. It is also prescribed to start and end the term of office, and it is prescribed as a newspaper that the president of the National Minority Council is authorised after the end of the mandate until the Council is established, only in the new mandate to carry out those tasks necessary for the regular operation or functioning of the Council. Compared to the constitutive council sessions, the constitutive meetings are prescribed to be convened by mayors, mayor of Zagreb, mayors and municipal chiefs within 45 days of the final election results. The funds necessary for the implementation of this law are provided in the national budget for 2019. and in the 2020 and 2021 projections, and the application of this law will contribute to the promotion, preservation and protection of the position of national minorities in the section relating to elections for councils and representatives of national minorities, and to their participation in public life and local affairs management. Therefore, HS is proposed to adopt such a bill, of course, after the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128857	I thank the Secretary of State, we have four replicas, the first colleague is Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128858	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, what interests me more than purely technical choices of new rules, I wonder how much, do you have any analysis, how many representatives in the councils of national minorities contribute to certain activities and see if the purpose of the law or what we are aware of in the Republic of Croatia is that national minorities are the wealth of the Republic, that we as a state are a completely open society and we want to promote and protect the cultural and tradition of national minorities, so I wonder if you have any analysis of how much of the input other than what they are taking part in certain sessions, what we have in certain cities, given the law and the builders and the parishioners of the national minorities, I want to see what is really useful And how much, which we specifically benefit from from the law that is proposed. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128859	You want an answer or later? All right, then, second replica, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128860	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, here are three questions, but I'd like to ask you an answer. So, the date is scheduled for October of this year, will that date, in view of the proposal and the Committee on the Rights of the National Minority, remain for 4 years or will it be transferred to May? You said the money was secured, which means the money was secured in the budget? It seems to me that the elections are being paid by local self-government units. And on the third question, Article 107 of the 2000 kuna fine will punish the applicant for a violation of the wrong data. It doesn't seem to be a dragon's punishment. What's with the 2,000-dollar decree in the first place? It's like, let's say, if we transferred it to local elections, if the mayoral candidate were punished with 500 thousand or millions of kuna. That's not a good provision. It is sufficient for the competent electoral commission to notify the competent municipal state attorney's office and then the court to decide later on what extent the law has been broken and to impose a penalty. Here are those three short questions. I'm asking you to answer if you can't get in the replica right now, so at least take a later word and answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128861	We're going to the third line. Comrade Kajtazi, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128862	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, thanks. I welcome the amendments and additions to the Law on selecting councils and representatives of national minorities. But we need to know to the public that, with the fact that these councils of ours with the exception of the city of Zagreb are difficult or in no way working. Many councils are on the verge of survival. This way I want to know whether the applicant has taken into account this dimension, i.e. the fact that most councils at the level of municipalities and cities and counties have no space, resources and working conditions and thus do not even have the possibility of action. We need to find a better model, support the work of the council, and in the future elections for representatives of national minorities to hold parallels with local elections so that there is a greater turnout.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128863	You won't answer? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And the last one's a fellow Uncle, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128864	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. I recently had a meeting with representatives of the National Minority Council from the Varazdin County area. We were just discussing the meaning of their work, providing space and better conditions. They're familiar with the passing of this law. However, one important question to them was whether it is possible for them to have more polling stations, at least according to a former structure, means that larger centres have their own polling stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128865	A good secretary of state will mean after the debate of counterpart Jankovics for five minutes. And now I'm asking the committee's rapporteurs if they'll take the floor? If not, then we'll go to the hearing. Here you go, fellow Jankovics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128866	Dear Mr. President, esteemed secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I would first of all like to express my satisfaction with the fact that this law, after so many mandates, when we were trying to get him on the agenda, came to the agenda. Here thanks comes from the Council for National Minorities, Mr Tolnauer, who has been pushing this law for six years, and this is the first government to accept that this law, that elections for the National Minorities are important bodies, and these are councils and representatives of national minorities, we regulate, we regulate their choices by special law, not by the basis of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, are actually the Law on the Elections of Local Self-Government Units, which we have not applied at all since 2012. So that was one legal problem that we're solving with this new bill. And I say, on behalf of the National Minorities Club, I can generally say the opinion, and I'll go into a few details later that we are satisfied with this proposal. This does not mean that it cannot be fixed but the whole picture reflects the position of this government that has fulfilled the promise that this law will come on time on the agenda. And I can only repeat that we also have the fact that this government has also adopted an operational programme for national minorities 2017/20. which, according to the position of this club, is the most important element of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. So the message is good and now we think that this law is also OK and the fact itself is he here is good, and then some things maybe even because of the Croatian public we need to explain. I'll try to do it briefly and maybe warn you of some things that we need to fix by the second reading. As for the councils and representatives of national minorities themselves, they are therefore formed, they are also established by the 2002 Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. For the first time in 2003, therefore, we have just expired the mandate of the 4th meeting of the councils and representatives of the national minorities. The elections for the councils of national minorities are the most direct elections, so where each member of the council of national minorities and national minority voters choose, directly choose, choose directly, choose preferentially, this is a popular name. So I may be illustrating to the Croatian public, so on the county list for some national minority council, 25 candidates are elected in a way that each voter votes for the number of candidates who want up to 25, so 25 preferential votes. This presents an interesting task for the election committees, a challenge. However, here are the four times we have held such elections and we can indeed say that the legislator's intensity is that in the councils of national minorities they are members, members of national minorities who have the best legitimacy that this objective has therefore been implemented. What in this law compared to previous, previous 4 election cycles, so we propose this is 5, so I'm going to say some newspapers that are on the proposal of the National Minority Representatives Club, which had its own members on the board, so in the commission that produced this proposal before and before the public debate, and then we're also a club of national minority representatives was part of therefore an intensive conversation with the Ministry of Administration about this variant that is here. So, as far as the papers are concerned, maybe it's important for potential candidates to know in time if they haven't yet been able to read the bill. So as Mr. Secretary of State has said, we are introducing the institution of the deputy representative of the national minority. So we've had over the past 16 years of mandates, so in the units of local self-government where the number of national minorities is given between 100 and 200 and what happens is what life already brings, does death, does resignation, does anything else give that unit of local self-government although constitutional law should have a representative for... A national minority, she's lost it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are now introducing the Institute for Representatives with this law, which means that, together with the candidate for representative, he and his deputy, ap, if events happen during the term of office, then we do not have to go to a new choice. As far as the council is concerned, there is a case, therefore, that the end of the term of office is regulated in a way that enters the first unselected mandate, and if it has not been elected, it is important that we have over 50% of the members always. As far as the date is concerned, we welcome the fact that he is fixed by this law, he is currently in a different position to be in October. So, the fact that we had elections in these 4 mandates from March to July, so, one very stretching one and those elections in July resulted in a catastrophic turnout, so I think it was 2011, so we welcome the fact and welcome the legislator's idea, along with us, that this date is fixed, about when it will be, maybe we still need to think about it. As for the ban on running, the ban on running is good, therefore, as well as the elections for units of local, regional self-government, for active military personnel, for police officers, therefore, there is a ban on running, but we welcome the fact that our proposal is respected, that the deputy chiefs, since we have a number of local self-government units, where there are deputy chiefs, from the order of the national minority, therefore, as a special institute of representation of the national minority in the executive body, are allowed to run for them, and that they are actually banned from running, the politically elected deputys of national minorities from the order of political elected deputies, which are the circumstances of members of the national minority. We think it's a nice nice idea that these two institutes are separated. We also welcome the fact, therefore, that, apart from the largest number of candidates, which the proposer in this case may propose to be established, except for the highest level of 10 at city level 15, at city level 25, therefore, that a minimum number of candidates, which a particular applicant may propose, have been established. So far they could have suggested one thing, so if they were the only ones if they proposed, then it wasn't worth choosing that one, but it was established that the smallest number of seas, that there was a minimum number of candidates that a particular applicant had to propose, and that's at the level of municipality 6 at city level 8 at county level 13. And besides, there's a new institute that we're going to try first, which is that under this law there will be no electoral silence. Which means that all of those possible problems that were repeated on the day of the election, because since usually the stress then is a little higher than the previous days, therefore, that we failed to control it, too, we failed to institutionalise, so we're going to be a little more liberal, or, therefore, on election day or Saturday, there will be no electoral silence. Maybe it's one lax paper, let's see for some other choices, because there are numbers of countries where there's no such thing as that institute, and the fact that it's also here where we've introduced it, for many elections, how we can even control it or sanction it. So, a general picture of how I said at the beginning that there was great progress in the government's mandate, that we also adopted an operational programme for national minorities, which is being implemented. There is great progress that here, after six full years of the National Minority Council initiative, we have come to this stage, that this government is proposing it, and I am convinced that we will adopt it very quickly. Two things, though from the National Minorities Club, we think should be considered until the second reading, which we propose to be quite fast, so the first fact is whether it's good in art. 7. that the elections are scheduled for October, as this term of office is elected on 31 May 2015 and according to the National Minority Rights Act, the term of office shall be 4 years not 4 years and 6 months. Not four years and four months. It's been four years. And we're suggesting the impression is that it's feasible, implementing, if soon enough to return to the second reading, that the elections be the first week in May, that would be far enough from European elections, and still feasible, besides, the Council and representatives who are now in office, well know when their mandate expires, because they were elected, as I said on 31 May 2015. Therefore, the proposal of the National Minority Club remains the Ministry of Administration to hold elections in May. So, first week of May. As far as our second proposal is concerned, given this very significant liberalisation in the election, therefore, each, literally each member's choice, namely, individually, we have proposed, the National Minority Representatives' Club has suggested that on the electoral list, consider introducing a so-called and shortened name of the applicant, with the name of each of the candidates, because we are among the individual national minorities, where we have more than 4 or 5 associations, and that on the county list means 100 or 125 candidates, where there is a good chance that numerous candidates will be the same name, even the same name and last name, and then does not appear only the problem with voters who do not know exactly who they vote for, if they vote for some Petrovic, but there is also a problem after the election, that Petrovic does not know whether he is elected or choose any other Petrovic. It would be good, therefore, to write behind each candidate and that is the proposal of the National Minority Club, that the short name of the proposing association should not be excessively, demanding or technical on each candidate's ballot. We think it's done, it's an art. 19th and 56th of this law. As for my predecessors here in replications, they talked about some problems that we cannot solve, therefore, by electoral law, these are the number of polling stations, these are the means for the work of councils and representatives of national minorities, i.e., the problem which is not mentioned is a legal personality, the representatives who serve their own OIB in transport, which has shown that there have been all kinds of gambling situations, so these are the problems, they can only be solved by amending the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities, which is, therefore, the law that we would bring to the two-thirds majority in 2002. I don't see a real possibility for that. As for the number of polling stations, it is indeed a burning problem, and when we watch news reports a day or two after the elections they show very little turnout, and one reason very small turnout is just a very small number of polling stations. So, as far as the big picture, the general picture, I can say that the National Minority Representatives' Club, as probably the most interested in this House for this Law, is satisfied, so we are satisfied with this Bill proposal, and the fact that the Law is here, it shows an unequivocal message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia that it seriously intends to deal with problems affecting national minorities, and by voting this Law we are actually closing the full legal picture of the achievement of all the political rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. We call on the Ministry of Administration and the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself to consider Article 7, so on the term of the elections, we believe that it would be even against the law to extend the mandate of the Council and representatives of national minorities elected on 31.05.2015. Our concrete proposal is to make it in May's first week, all the time. The second proposal is therefore to make the short name of the applicant mandatory after the candidate's name on the ballot. We believe that these proposals are real, whether they pass or not, however, the message and the content of this Law itself is good and we will surely support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128867	We are going to another debate, or, excuse me, now it is on behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Nekic. Here you go, five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128868	Thank you. So, as far as all these proposals and questions are concerned, there are those who can get rid of this law, as you said, and there are those that we cannot solve by this Law. As for the date of the election, I think it's kind of the most important issue that's been crystallized through this debate, so the Ministry of Administration is not reluctant to accept this proposal, but we're just warning, so on schedules. Today, on February 14th, if the elections were on May 05th, so our deadlines start on April 05th, this means that by April 5th, this distinguished House should be passed by law, and we have another reading, in addition, so the government must make a decision, and only after the Government of Croatia has decided on the vote, so, the deadlines are running. In order to start deadlines from April 05th, the government should enter into force by April 04th at the latest. So, given that, this, in parallel, the Ministry of Administration has to work to prepare for, so, elections for the EU Parliament, we, therefore, have to conclude electoral lists for these elections, and for each unit of local self-government, we must, in some units, have a lot of national minorities, so for each unit we have to make special lists. So we are not reluctant to accept this proposal of yours, and I really do thank you, so not only to you personally, but to all the representatives of the national minorities who participated in the creation, along with us of this, of this Law. So, as far as your second question is concerned, it's the introduction of a short name, I think I can say now that it wouldn't be any problem for us, but here, let me do another reading, consult a little with people who have been operating on this bill, so we'll give you the final answer then in the second reading. As to the meaning, the local self-government units themselves, the esteemed representative Kajtazi here mentioned that the Council has no space, no financial resources, so it depends on the unit to the local self-government unit, we have positive examples, and we have unfortunately also those who are not so positive, so here we are trying with local self-government units, like, working on education to say yes, so that all local self-government units realize that this is extremely important, and to set one whole standard for all units equal. As for the contribution analysis, I certainly don't have that analysis right now, but on all these issues, I'm going to be ready for a second reading, so here's Agent Maras, we're going to try to answer, so in a second, second reading. I don't think I've forgotten anything. This is the only penalty of 2,000 kuna. We'll consider your proposal. Let's see if it's an excessive number, so I'll give you the final answer in the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128869	We're going with two replicas. Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128870	Thank you very much, Mr. Neklic. I think it is worrying what the representatives of national minorities here say, and I am afraid that this is part of the issue in Croatia, and in the political scene in the Croatian Parliament of political trade, because you allow some political actors to collect and taxpayers' money in this way, for example in the city of Zagreb, it is particularly expressed, because when the state does not provide, when cities and municipalities do not provide for action, what MP Katezi said, then local political traders, such as the Mayor Bandic, and the money of Zagreb, or Zagreb taxpayers, will sort of trade. And that's what's wrong with me when we talk about National Small Councils, although it's a miracle that national minority representatives are all in the Milan Bandic Club. This shows you only how national, national minority councils operate in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128871	Thank you. Answer, please. You won't answer? Comrade Jankovics, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128872	So here I would just like to thank you once again, of course, that all these doubts with Mr. Secretary of State about our proposals have been passed so far, I am just warning you all, therefore, that in the current composition of the Council and representatives of the national minorities were elected in May 2015, and Article 24 of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, says the mandate lasts four years. So we need to concentrate on the fact that most likely constitutional law we won't be so soon changing power, and then we have to stick to it. Accordingly, I think that these technical things actually, that's our position, us eight, so the National Minority Representatives Club, yes, that we can do it in this short time period, I'm sure the government will show enough understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128873	Now, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Marija Jelkovac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128874	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is what the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities said on behalf of the Proposer, in fact, prescribed that national minorities, through their councils and through representatives of the national minority, participate in public life and in the management of operations in units of local or regional self-government. The constitutional law also provides for conditions for the selection of councils and representatives of national minorities, it is prescribed that national minority units account for 1.5% of the total population, i.e. the area of which more than 200 members of a national minority live, and the units of the regional self-government in which more than 500 members of the national minority live, can choose the National Minority Council. In the case where at least 100 members of the national minority live in a unit of self-government, they shall select their representative. The National Minority Council elects 10 members, 15 members and 25 members of the county. Candidates may be proposed by associations of national minorities or individuals, members of national minorities from the fields for which they are elected. To determine these parameters, the population list is appropriate. The Council of National Minorities and their representative shall be elected directly, by secret vote for a term of office of 4 years. The selection of the councils of national minorities and representatives of national minorities has so far been subject to legislation governing the selection of representatives of local self-government units. Since the Law on Local Elections entered into force in 2012 and Article 136 of that Law stipulates that the selection procedure of members of national minority councils and representatives of national minorities will be regulated by a special regulation, we are now also facing this Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities as a special regulation. The proposal for this law shall primarily regulate the selection of members of councils and representatives of national minorities, voting rights, freedoms and rights in the exercise of electoral rights, calling and holding elections. As we heard, the elections were found to be held on the first Sunday of October every 4 years. The procedure for running and prohibiting the running and banning of candidates for those voters who are police officers and active military personnel, as well as those who act as municipal mayor, mayor, mayor or their deputies for that unit in which the council is also elected, or representative of the national minority, shall also be regulated. The paper introduces the possibility of a candidate for a national minority representative, also proposing his deputy and thus resolving the situation when a national minority representative ceases his term before the end of the term of office of 4 years, so that the national minority would not be left without its representative and we believe that the newspaper is a good one. The obligations of the electoral committees and the manner of publication of the lists of candidates and the summary lists of candidates to be published under this proposal on the advertising board and through the network pages of the units for which the units of local self-government or regional self-government for which elections are conducted, not more than so far in public ballots are then prescribed. Election promotion is also prescribed in a way that starts on the first day following the publication of the lists but is not prescribed for completion, which means that no electoral silence is prescribed, unlike the application of provisions that have been in force so far. This is proposed as a newspaper, and maybe it's good because the role of the national minority council as well as the representative is, in fact, an advisory type and in order to carry out this election process in some way and easier, I think this kind of newspaper can contribute and we don't expect it to harm the conduct of the election itself. It is also prescribed the right to the costs of electoral promotion and electoral bodies participating in the procedure itself as well as in all other elections from the DIP of the Republic of Croatia to lower through the county election committees, the Election Commission of the City of Zagreb, election commissions of cities and municipalities and election committees, and there is also a provision of compensation for them. The deadlines for determining election committees and polling stations have also been set and it has been established that members of national minority councils and representatives of national minorities are elected by a majority electoral system. It shall be governed in a special chapter by the conduct of the elections, the contents of the ballot, the actions of the electoral bodies, the obligations of the election committees and other electoral bodies. The provisions on observation and the protection of personal data of those participating in the electoral procedure and in accordance with the applicable laws are also prescribed. The mandate of members of the council and representatives of the national minority and the establishment of the National Minority Council has been established, so in accordance with the draft law, the mandate of members of the National Minority Council begins from the moment of constitution until the mandate of representatives of the National Minority begins from the first day after they become the powerful results of the elections. It is also prescribed that the constitutional sessions of national minority councils are convened by the mayor or mayors and I think that in fact this Proposal for a Law on Elections of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities in a special regulation, in an integrated manner, regulates the whole selection process and that for the first time, this area is separately arranged to avoid certain irregularities due to the analogy of provisions which so far concerned the selection of representative bodies. We have in this bill of law and a certain newspaper, that is, through certain provisions of the law, some things are a little bit different than they have been before, and we believe that implementation will prove to be good. So some provisions have been improved in relation to the practice so far, and also because the practice so far has shown some indeterminateness, some things have been corrected in this way. We believe that in this way an orderly election procedure for representatives and for the council of national minorities will certainly contribute to legal certainty. And the HDZ Club will therefore support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128875	Thank you, too. We are now going to the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives and Honored counterpart Rechim Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128876	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honored Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I must stress that I thank my colleague Jelkovac for this debate which has implemented us through the Constitutional Law and the bill of this law, so I do not have to lose that time, so I will only remain on two articles of this bill. It is good that we have repeated the material relating to the law, the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, which has been applied directly so far and then we will go to this new law that addresses only the issue of choice because it turns out that some cities or units of local self-government between them and the city of Zagreb give funds for the programming and material costs to the councils of national minorities as advisory bodies by their own will and not by the basis of constitutional law. In Zagreb we have 18 councils and representatives of national minorities. So it's the largest multiethnic unit that has the largest number of councils and representatives of national minorities on its territory. But back to the bill, first Article 7. We say in October every 4th year the proposal is a mandate for elected councils to come out on 31 May this year. And Secretary of State, you yourself said that we were just pressed by deadlines but that's no reason not to go back to that proposal that was in public consultation, which is the beginning of May. So there's no reason. As a club, we also held a meeting with the state election committee and with you normally as a promoter and with the APIS. There's no problem in keeping this deadline in May, there's no problem. We therefore urge that this term be found in the final draft of the law in October, the first Sunday of October every fourth year because their mandate expires and we would actually extend the mandate of elected members of the National Minority Council with this adoption of the law. I don't know what that would look like, no matter what the bill is now. And let me do that, and that's causing big problems from the constitution if we go in October to budgeting and budgeting for next year's council work. That's why I'm talking especially about the city of Zagreb. That's why we're talking about May of the month. As far as Article 19 of my colleague Jankovics is concerned, something on behalf of the minority club has already spoken about it, it seems to me, I have also warned of this on the Legislative Committee this article 19 is very complicated. We should actually go on, and it's not a problem, we also talked about it with both the APIS and the State Election Commission, should go on to indicate candidates and their deputies. Here's why, let me show you a ballot what it looks like. Here it is, so on that ballot so far there were 18 Mitrovicas, I'm only talking about last names, 18 Mitrovicas, there were 12 Stankovics, there were 11 Nikolics, without other markings, so if you even have the same name and last name in that ballot. Let's say you have Mitrovica 3, same name. You have Nikolic, two, three, so I don't count now, it doesn't matter. So it would have to be an exact mark on the ballot to which the candidate or the deputy candidate is involved. If that's the same name you say in the first-reading proposal then it goes to the date of birth or the address of the apartment. I think it would be more logical and easier to say in the final proposal for a law to be marked on the ballot by the Proposer, the Proposer. In this way, when the results of the vote are determined, they are determined by a regular number, so it is known exactly which, which is the regular number in the final line bearing the name and last name, any address or year of birth which the candidate has received under a certain regular number of votes, but we know who suggested it. And then we avoid this problem with those last names, the same last names, the same names. Here I have that ballot, you probably have it, and it's very clearly shown, that problem. and I think that this article should, in that sense, be prepared, in Article 19, to make it as simple as possible with the name of the candidates for members, i.e. their deputies. I would so, in fact we will support the adoption of this bill and in the first reading, it is not a problem, believing that all the remarks and suggestions you have heard in this debate will also take into account all these reasons that we have presented. I do not want to owe it, even though I have a letter, which was sent to me by the coordination of councils and representatives of the National Minorities of the City of Zagreb, I can hand it to you and it would be good to analyse it, because it is a really big problem regarding the budget of the City of Zagreb, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128877	Thank you. Before we go any further, he would welcome students and students from the 10th high school in Zagreb. ... Let's move on, now it's the club of Independent Representatives, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128878	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Mr. Nekic, colleagues and colleagues, I will try to say a few things that seem important to me, regarding the adoption of this law, but above all, we welcome, as a club, the adoption of this law, because it will contribute to a clearer and more transparent and better choice of representatives of the National Minority Council. Of course, in addition to these objections that the representatives themselves have already said, and one of these is certainly what we have to take into account, and that is a small turnout in these elections and in this sense playing with the date of elections or the time of maintenance is not very convenient, so in that sense the ministry should take a position, of course, but also in coordination with the presidents of the local self-government unit who must carry out these elections, because if we say it like this, be careful all policies are local, all elections are local, and we have a lot of choices, and here are the election cycles changing quickly they all go through local self-government units, which are obliged to prepare these elections, election seats. Of course, there are election committees, but yet the units of local self-government are the ones that provide space. As far as this law is concerned, it is as announced, proposed, is now being passed, given that the laws on local elections are defined as a new law, which will cover elections for the councils of national minorities and thus we through the legislation of the Republic of Croatia, and we must stress that the legislation of the Republic of Croatia has far advanced in this area, to give up the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, through and through this law, the rights of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are well regulated. Now, to quote one Serbian singer, to paraphrase, pardon, theoretical law sounds nice, it's a little bit different in practice. Now let's see what is important to me here and what should be taken care of so that this law, in order for it to have a better purpose, to achieve the result and effect that we want and what is the meaning of this law. So when we talk about democracy and democratic processes, democracy is not the most ideal system we know, but it is the best we know and with democracy we must not play with. And exactly the rights of national minorities are a test for every country's democracy. And if we don't have well-organised minority rights, then democracy doesn't make sense either, because democracy shows weakness on minorities, democracy is designed as the will of the majority. Because all decisions are made by the will of the majority, and if democracy does not have that level of sense towards minorities, then democracy as a system is not good. What should certainly be done in society, and we see that this is shy somehow and fully imposed, and that is where we come into conflict through ideological issues, which is civic education, civil education is extremely important for this law to come to life. You have research conducted amongst the population of the Republic of Croatia, 2/3 beware 2/3 of the population of the Republic of Croatia I don't know what public procurement is, 2 out of 3 full-time citizens, and a little less knows what public competition is. Why would I bring that up? So when we talk about the action and position of the council of national minorities, for every action, for any human activity, any social group, it takes space and time and what Einstein didn't take in his formulas, primarily money. Money you know can narrow down both space and time. The Republic of Croatia has to admit that, the units of local self-government in a territorial structure, by no means standardized, we in local administration units have, I will use this word but not in a completely negative sense, in a limited sense we have advocacy. Well, everyone does what they want. A colleague, Maras, asked about the success of the National Minority Council. Well, that depends on the will of the representative bodies and the head of the local self-government unit. Do you know how many councils they get on Monday? Is that $5,000, 10 grand? So look why I mentioned public procurement, if we look at what all the money costs are, someone's picturesque, one council representative said, is spending more on taking care of the fall than on the council of national minorities, by of course, taking care of dogs is a serious problem, animal care is a serious problem, but this is about taking care of people. And we have two things that matter, the first thing that matters is the relationship of the councils themselves to the representative body, so what the councils have to propose, to the representative body, the advisory proposals for decision-making, which concerns their lives, and when they say that they are concerned with their lives, so they concern the lives of all citizens in this area, because it is not the Council, it is not just some question that deals with minority rights, but these are communal issues, these are issues that raise the quality of life. And how serious it is for the representative bodies to accept or invite representatives of national councils, the Council of National Minorities to make their proposals. It's a two-way process. And then we come to an election which is the essence of this law, how many minority representatives themselves, realize how important this law is, how important their position is then and what they can do. Perhaps the government official can explain to me, according to the 2003 first elections, 471 elections for the Council of National Minorities and 141 elections for representatives of national minorities were held, at which point only a third was held, 35% for the council, 30% for, for the representatives. In 2015, the final round of elections was selected according to the data I came up with, perhaps wrong I apologize if the wrong government representative, 285 councils were elected 169 representatives, but it says that 91.7% of the councils were elected and 71.9% of the representatives. So now, there's a lot more of these choices being made now, which are called, but why is that difference now, if it's 2003. 471, 2015 285, maybe it's because of the voter list or because of the population, that's where it happened, but it's not small, it seems to me to be a huge, huge difference. So, let me conclude, I'm sorry if I did a little, if I went too far from myself, the very essence of this law. The elections for the Council of National Minorities make sense if these councils will do something, but it does not depend only on the council, it depends on everything, and especially on the units of local self-government that these councils will ultimately accept under their laps to express themselves, which will cooperate with them, which will provide space for them, not to be written by representatives of the national, national minority councils that they cannot hold a meeting because it is in the basement of the water. Look, it's not a good message, and what a relationship it is, it's in some units of local self-government, in some units local self-government is a much better situation. I do not know the information for my county Virovitica-Podravska I see there are many councils, I think that, that the situation is not so bad, what I know is that in Bjelovar-Belogorje County, it stands out as an example, good, good practice, so we all need to work together to get these National Minority Councils to take their place and then they can really act, that they have more resources at their disposal. And perhaps at the end of the question, I suppose that, that they don't get any money for their work, I mean I don't speak for council work for their programming work, for material expenses I've seen that they have no right, only for the programs, but if they get for their sessions a fee, is it prescribed or depends again on units of local self-government and therefore I warned the secretary of state about this provision for a fine of 2,000 kuna. If the National Minority Council gets a yearly fee for its work, and you're going to punish someone with 2,000 kuna for misrepresenting the data, not entering it if it's a criminal offence, is the election commission required to report to the State's Attorney's office, then it's really not proportionate. As far as the law itself is concerned, the predecessors have explained what, which is all the news, and in this sense we will support this law and hope that until the second reading, it will be even more quality to the benefit of the representatives of the national minorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128879	Now let's go to the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Goran Beus Richembergh, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128880	I would like to thank Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU, to welcome the Government of the Republic of Croatia's intention to propose the adoption of this law to the Croatian Parliament. Thus far, during these 16 years elections for representatives and the Council of National Minorities, which have been defined as the right of members of national minorities, have yet to be implemented by the Constitutional Law in such a way that basic provisions of the Constitutional Law are further related to the provisions of the election of members of representative bodies in units of local and regional or regional self-government. This is when it has also led to some vague situations, since analogy could be done to the end. In this respect, it is good that the electoral rules and conditions of this analogy are now clearly numbered and defined in a transparent manner. What is wrong with that, is that this law will not resolve a whole series of issues raised in the practice of implementing the Constitutional Law and the problems observed in this regard and which are unfortunately due to the special status of the Constitutional Law and the way it is being put off, or their solutions are being delayed until the sacred nothingness. Starting from the fact that the Constitutional Law is passed by a two-thirds majority, everyone is actually moved into this, in this body of legal issues, and the problems continue to exist. A little later on about the specifics. As far as the term of holding new elections is concerned, we as a club can support one and the other, but we must warn of the risks both are taking. If it were to go along with a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to make this the first Sunday of October, certainly the positive sides of this solution are the time gap, better preparation and simpler application of this law. However, there are difficulties that are primarily made by terms of data entry in the register of councils and representatives that are the result of the election process itself, the constitutive sessions and all that goes with it in a package where sometimes in practice it is known that from the moment the elections are held until the moment the register is registered it passes several months. If this is October, then we can forget the second part of this year and in terms of the functioning of representatives and councils and in terms of financing their work. Some units of local self-government and units of regional or regional self-government have in some way been anticipating this situation, so in the crackdown on making financial plans or decisions on the allocation of funds for the financing of councils and representatives have provided for annual amounts, but that does not mean anything unless there is one who is able to access those funds. On the other hand, this solution that is proposed, which is October, does not answer the question of what from May to October, or what from May to, say, 11 or 12 months. In this way, if this law does not define in the transitional and final provisions that the current mandate, therefore those who are found in those duties, lasts until the election of new bodies, then we have a vacuum of 5 or 6 months, which is not fair, because it is a violation of the rights of members of national minorities to have their representatives and councils. So if they, almost half a year, we may even be more, are unable to achieve their constitutional right, then we have to answer the question why are we doing it? On the other hand, the proposal to retain May as the month in which the elections will be held is certainly tense as far as deadlines are concerned, but this is where we, like the Parliament, bear responsibility. On December 22nd, as far as I know, the government adopted this proposal, and today on February 14th, therefore, nominally, this proposal could have been on the HS agenda 20 days ago, so these deadlines could then be extended. Obviously, someone does not think about such important things as elections, regardless of whether anyone considers these choices irrelevant or important. Members of national minorities also partly view these elections as important, partly irrelevant, we also see this as an outcome. Why is the turnout small? The output is mostly low because there is a huge discrepancy in practice that has actually mirrored the real roles of representatives and councils. Somewhere, I'd say, in some advanced, well-developed, so if you want the conscious units of local and regional self-government, that role is important, it's being unearthed, of course, with the means that are approved for the work of councils and representatives, but somewhere where these council representatives don't have almost any means to work, no working conditions, a question arises, which is the role of representatives and councils at all? If I can't meet, if I can't work, if I can't, or if the representative body doesn't consider them a partner, if they're not asked for anything, then, of course, it reflects on the awareness of the members of the national minorities themselves whether or not they should go to those elections at all. On the other hand, we need to know that in preparing these elections, it is extremely difficult to identify members of national minorities because you cannot enter the general pre-election promotion because you are not addressing the entire regiment, but you are addressing a very small segment that is sometimes measured in percentages. How to reach these people if they are not, say, organized, and many are not. The history of national minority organisations suggests that no national minority has ever been able to engage more than 10% to 15% of national minorities in a concrete organisation. We need to be aware of that. This is in some cases low-resistance lines, where most believe that an active minority will achieve a space for fulfilling their rights, whether they are engaged or not, and on the other hand, we now have regulations that protect personal data and the question is whether you can write as a candidate, even as an association, to individuals you know are declared to be members of minorities. This proposal, which is made by May, brings among other things the difficulty of opening and closing the register, will all be tense and the dates themselves, if it goes to the optimal variant, which is that in the race, within 2 weeks, the proposer with the final text proposal will return here, we will again be tense about this and the second, there will be cacophony in view of European elections. For some, such as my national minority, it is not crucial, but some minorities are because they are large because they want to engage in European elections as well. Furthermore, it is good that this proposal introduces a new institute, which is the deputy representative or person who is running alongside him and who is in office under certain conditions, when the representative is no longer in a position to perform his or her duties. So far, we've had a vacuum in that sense, and in the case of representatives, let's say, dying, moving or something else. As for the start and end of the term of office, it is defined by the constitutional law for 4 years, but we also know that it is defined by all parliamentary deputies at 4 years, so it is never again held elections for HS on the same date, it was never a big problem, but good. What is here, for example, unscheduled, one article defines that the President of the Council only performs the necessary tasks in that interface between the election itself and the election of a new council, or its establishment by the election of the president. Why wasn't that analogy introduced here and for a representative? So why can the council function, at least minimally, and the representatives can't? What does that mean now? That from the moment the April elections are discussed, all representatives will stop working until they choose a new one, is that correct? We need to know that representatives and councils are also programming and activities related to some dates that are extremely important to the history, culture and action of their national communities, whether parent, whether minority. What does that mean now? That the representatives of the council, if their national holiday falls within 6 or 7 months, will not be allowed to mark it or should not use the funds they already have been granted by a decision on the implementation of the budget for this year. So we're gonna get into a trunk and I'm afraid there's gonna be a problem. We know that there are no provisions here on the registers of councils, coordination and representatives, because this is defined by the constitutional law that will be settled under the rule. That Regulation shall be adopted by the Secretary-General. However, we would also like, if possible, to explain a little about the opening and closing of the register in this process now that we are moving towards the date on which the elections are to be called, and what will be the practice given that this initiative is to be held in the same month that they are also European. I know Apis said it's not a problem for them, and you're giving us an explanation of exactly what that means. Furthermore, we have this big problem that constitutional law has not withdrawn the analogy of all articles concerning councils and representatives. Someone here has already mentioned, the most recent problem is the problem of representatives of the German national minority in the City of Zagreb. It's a place where no one will be able to run for that place until an old court verdict can be filed. Why? Because completely by the insane model of being interpreted by the Court, which of course goes from the executive law, and not by the Constitutional Law, puts him in a position to be raised from private accounts, this one, by a tip, 400,000,00 kuna due to a working-law dispute that has been conducted for eight or nine years, and which has now come, not now, but already has four years, to be charged. We know that representatives of national minorities do not inherit legal personality, but when it comes to accountability to them, we treat them as craftsmen, and that is not correct. So, and the Constitutional Law said that they would open special accounts, so why are you going on personal property? Finally, it is possible to confiscate the funds of the local budget that are strictly intended by law by judicial order. So we have a big problem, one national minority in that sense is denied in their rights. What we would like to point out is that, by constitutional law, the state has provided certain guarantees to members of national minorities, that it will respect their rights to choose their representatives in the Councils or independent representatives, but it has not provided absolutely any guarantee that it will even their practice, that it will even their working conditions, so that we have a situation to say in the city of Zagreb is completely disproportionate, different from all other cities and municipalities, regardless of what in other cities, municipalities, and even some counties, the share of national minorities in the total population surpasses that share in the city of Zagreb. But Zagreb is rich and it can give millions and millions of kunas in this sense to disposition. My county is also advanced in this sense, it is very conscious, it is working very hard for all Councils, and it provides all representatives with relatively large resources, some other counties too, but we must be aware that a large part of some national minorities live in the poor areas of the Republic of Croatia and that their councils, and their representatives, regardless of how many there are where they live, actually have no working conditions. We don't have any policy of alignment, we don't have any guarantee that let's say a minimum will be provided by the state, and above standard local self-government, in that sense we have to admit that we're hypocrites, because we've guaranteed something that's impossible to consume. I know this question is complex, I know that on the other hand the Republic of Croatia is one of those countries, just... in the European Union, which maintains the highest standards possible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In other countries, some, not all, you can't even dream of what the Republic of Croatia has built into its legislation, but I am starting from the fact that we must always look at those who are better than us, and in that sense, I will mention here once again, it is great that the citizens' initiative last year at Europe level has collected more than a million signatures to force the European Commission to through so-called... raises standards in all Member States of the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We as a country that has done this in a great way should be among the first to promote it, because in this way we provide certain models of functioning and legal regulation that can also serve other countries that have national and ethnic and linguistic minorities. I see no reason why Croatia would no longer be promoted in this regard and I am sorry that it missed the opportunity, regardless of what the issue of national minority rights has defined among its priorities and at the time of our Presidency, let's say the Council of Europe. That's one of the more important questions. We don't have much to brag about, and since we have something, let's take advantage of it. Anyway, we support this in our first reading, and we hope that by the second reading, you'll have a little bit of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128881	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, a respected secretary of state, Darko Nekic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128882	Thank you. I may have been a little imprecise in my previous presentation, so I can tell you this again, so we fully accept 05.05 as a date, what you said, and what your predecessors said, I was just trying to point out some of the problems that could cause it. So, if we all agree it's 05.05. So we're not questioning that date, the Ministry of Administration accepts that date as election date. Only, of course, some of the reasons you mentioned in your presentation will appear as a problem, starting with the voters' register, meaning, up to the fifth month's vote for the EU. That's what I was talking about, but as far as the date goes, we're not questioning him, and by the second reading, we're going to install that date into the bill. As for the implementation of the Constitutional Law, you yourself said that, uh, there are a number of problems coming out of it, but this Law cannot derivate the Constitutional Law, so this Law can't solve all the problems that you, which you mentioned, and as far as analogy for representatives means, national minorities or questions that have the same powers as the Council has after their term is over, I don't think it's a bad proposal, I'm going to study it a little with our people at the Ministry, and we're also going to answer to another, second reading this one, to answer this question of yours. As for the issue of local self-government, I have already said in my previous presentation, so local self-government according to the European Charter of Local Self-Government has some kind of autonomous right, and of course it is not the same everywhere in every local self-government relationship with national minorities. But we can't solve all these problems with this law, that's all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128883	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128884	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, you've mentioned now that we have elections for the European Parliament in May, I don't see the problem of this taking place in parallel, I think that this would even increase turnout in elections for the Council of National Minorities, it's not a large number of people, it can be organised in parallel with smaller costs, but it could be a separate date. The biggest problem I see is that we are in relatively time pressure as regards the adoption of this Law, so I would like you to have a plan, that, in a relatively short time, the law is finally adopted and that we enter into the process regardless of certain technical difficulties, because I think it would be a greater turnout to these elections if we were to be held together with European elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128885	Secretary of State Darko Nekic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128886	So, as far as these elections are concerned, the proposal is to hold 5.5. and the EU elections are 26.5. so they cannot be held together in order to cut costs as you say, however, there are technical problems about it. So we need to lock up the register for European elections at some point, and we're going to have a situation, so all of these registers across all local and local units, or regional self-government, are prepared for the 5.5th elections, so that's what I was talking about just technical problems. As far as the election is concerned, I haven't talked about it at all. The election for councils and representatives will be 5.5th and the EU elections parliament 26.5th. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128887	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected representative, Gordan Maras, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128888	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues. Representatives, when we talk about this law, the SDP Representatives Club will support amendments, but here I want to talk about a few things that I think are crucial when we talk about elections for members of the National Minority Council, because we can have the best legislation, we can have and I would say the best will, it can be one of the European values that Croatia represents and should represent for the greater participation of national minorities in participation in local communities. But when we see the result, then we get to it, that we can't be satisfied how it works today in the bang. I don't think it would be more polite, but, of course, that's the thing now that you're going to take the legislator, that since it's about European values, it's about the possible greater exit of national minorities' leaders, that is, members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia, and that these two things are connected to each other. No matter what they say and think that the costs would be slightly higher for the organisation, but it is much more important for me, that as many members of the national minorities go to elections and make a quality contribution, i.e. expressions of desire and will, who will present them in these councils and who will propose certain things in their name in the future. On that side, it is of course both society and legislators and we that in these elections as many members as possible, or members of national minorities, means that those in the largest number and say their interest and show what they think and how they think that the national councils of national minorities have done so far and what they would do from now on. On the other hand, the issue of funding and what is worrying, and we heard it today and from fellow Keatazi, that already the vast majority of the councils do not work, because they simply do not have the elemental conditions to function. So that's where people have to rely on what their colleague Beus Richembergh said about the will, that is, the trouble of certain units of local self-government. Those who have more money, give a little more money, those who don't have money or think it doesn't matter to them don't give them anything, there's a lot of those environments that set out for activities, for certain things almost no money, that is, no money for the Council of National Minorities. I don't think it would be a bad idea if we put a certain commitment into the law to the local self-government units, that a certain portion of the funds must be allocated. Because if we have something, then they must have the option, regardless of the will of the unit leader of local self-government to have their own certain activities, because I say, again, it comes down to that goodwill, who has the means, who doesn't have the means, whether someone's priority is the work of the council of national minorities or the installation of ice lights or the abortion of some street. I think, as far as the position of society is concerned, it's almost impossible for us to have a good society, open society, unless we support representatives of national minorities, that they also operate within their own units of local self-government. When we look at the level, at the level of the Republic of Croatia, if we were to determine that this is the type of 0.2% budget of the unit of local self-government, there would be some amount of 30 million kuna, which is there somewhere with the amount that the Government of the Republic of Croatia or, rather, a little more, the government allocates to activities related to certain cultural matters carried out by national minorities in the Republic of Croatia and the funds distributed from the position of government. So in other words, if the city's budget were not 100 million kuna, I speak or County, we speak to the great county, so it would be a commitment to the Council's activities to single out the budget of 200 kuna a year, which is not big money or when we talk about the City of Zagreb, instead of 9 and a few million kunas, or 18, 19 million kuna, and then it would be much less dependent on the good will of the unit leader of local self-government, that he will, or that he will, which national minority will support, but in a transparent and strong way, be dislocated. This is something that could possibly be considered until the second reading that there is an obligation for local self-government units to allocate certain funds and which would be the amount of funds that must be allocated. And I also call on representatives of national minorities to perceive because they are part of the ruling coalition, they can influence the government to implement such a solution. So once again I say we are inclined to have this topic, that these elections are also connected with European elections for a number of reasons, one of these reasons is absolutely because it is a European topic, what is European value and what I think would be good if the number of members of national minorities were involved in these elections. It is unfortunate that by changing the law, by introducing certain technical improvements to the elections themselves, we must hear here today that simply their function, de facto in most local self-government units, does not exist. So they are chosen and ultimately the activities are symbolic or none, and when we hear the example of counterpart Beus Richembergh that in the City of Zagreb we have a national minority that can't function because there was a particular dispute that was lost in court and now the legal succession is blocking the work or cannot pay off the funds to the German national in the City of Zagreb and they can't de facto work because those funds that would have to pay off will last for a whole number of years to come to free their own concept so that they can function and implement their own purpose. So there are in practice many, many moments, many elements that our legislators should foresee in order to say that the Councils of National Minorities function in a certain, best way possible. And that is why I call on the Secretary of State and the Ministry to propose these amendments as soon as possible, so we will support the proposal to see if it is possible, it would be good to bring those two choices together, I think that this would increase turnout because the turnout is minimal in elections for the Council of National Minorities, someone mentioned that 10 percent if it turns out that this excellent exit was so far, I think it is an interest for people to regain consciousness and not some way to practice and engage in their local communities and through this kind of activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128889	Thank you very much, and now the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras will perform individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128890	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I have chosen a deliberate opportunity to perform and individually, I did not want this on behalf of the club, but as a representative, especially as a representative from the City of Zagreb who is unsatisfactory, in how it works and from the position of the City of Zagreb relations with budget money and relation to national minorities, because when you do not have a regulated system, when you do not know who drinks who pays, when you do not have, regardless of how 9 and some million kunas are allocated from the budget in Zagreb, but are given yet to certain concepts and other activities, when in the country it does not work, as we have heard from Mr. Katazi, that the vast majority of cities, units of municipalities do not even support, nor can support such activities, then we come to a situation that el do so in Zagreb. So I want to highlight the example of the City of Zagreb, which without any rational, systematic decisions is financed by certain activities, not only in the City of Zagreb but throughout Croatia, by the activities of national minorities, by choosing those that correspond to the Mayor of the City of Zagreb and in this way, in my opinion, by buying the favor of politically defined representatives of national minorities. If we had a system, if people could function without it, the mayor of Zagreb would not, the Zagreb budget money would spend on which activities that are not in the City of Zagreb for national minorities, finance the publication of books of national minorities, which are in many cases connected with representatives sitting in his club. So this is one of the nakradan situations, a nakaradic situation, means in the elections for, for the Croatian Parliament, these people did not get the support of their national minorities on the list of Milan Bandic and did not even know that they would end up at the Club of Representatives Milan Bandic, but the Rules of Procedure of our Assembly enables national minorities to be in the Club of Representatives of National Minorities and then choose, if they want to be in another club what some, of course, most of them have chosen and most of the national minorities end up, and even the president of the Hungarian national minority is party president Milan Bandic 365. And now people in the City of Zagreb rightly wonder if this is related and how much of the activities from the city budget for certain minorities in that club or the president, the representative of the Hungarian national minority, how much money was financed by Zagreb. I'm sure the activities exist, I can be denied here by my colleagues and colleagues, so nothing has been financed, but I'm sure there are not a small number of activities that are financed by budget money and that are also linked to colleagues sitting in their club. I am not saying, they are fighting for their national minorities, but the system is complex so that then the Mayor of Zagreb can and has a huge influence through the city budget because money is not at the state level enough to trade politically and then influence certain things in the Republic of Croatia or in the political space of the Republic of Croatia. When you look at the analysis made by a representative in the City Assembly, Renato Friday, which no one has denied, which shows how untransparently, not through the system, but through my decisions, I will finance this activity, I will finance this exhibition, I will finance this sports event, from the Zagreb budget, funded by the Mayor of the City of Zagreb, then come up with the amount, he has come in the last 18 years, in addition to what goes through the budget, I told you about the work of the council of national minorities, you come to an amount of more than 15 million kuna, which is money, you will admit, not small, but when you look at the structure, you see that it has nothing to do with it, but absolutely no connection between the number of members of national minorities in the City of Zagreb and the money that is allocated to a particular national minority. So again I'm saying, there's no system, that's all over your finger, that's all you ask me, I'm giving you, I'm deciding how much I'm going to give to whom, how I'm going to give it, and in the end when you have a system like that, you can't convince anyone alive that the money of Zagreb is making a political scene in a way that the voters who voted for someone didn't even know it was going to be like that. This in HS, of course, is not exclusively related to representatives of national minorities, there we have the mayors of Petrinja, Djurdjevac who are closely connected also in this way to Mayor Bandic and what I am against is to be done in this way. I am to be given more funds for national minorities, in the City of Zagreb and twice as much. So if it is 9 and something million kuna, I am to be given double the money, but then that Mayor Bandic does not have the possibility of political trade, as at this point there is because of when the unsettled system is non-transparent, then it is done as it is done. And that's why we have to talk here because it's not the position of national minorities and what we want them to have to do, to protect their cultural heritage, to show a wealth of everything that includes their work, to eventually come down to who's going to sit in the club. Here, I tell you one more time, I am and to be more supportive, to be done so that they can do as best as possible, but that's not strictly tied up in this way because it's impossible, admit it to me, so we all know it, it's impossible to recognize exactly that way the biggest budget of the local in the Republic and now everyone is rushing at it. They rush because it's done untransparently and it's the only way to obviously fight for some of your things because the system we now have is not functional and allows us to work in this way, and in the end we come to the small door, at a small door, as the club president said, not national minorities, but Milan Bandic 365, also supports the government. So, again, you are not directly in the HDZ Club, but as if you are in the HDZ Club and we have to end with it, so, with this we have to finish, I am giving absolute rights to all representatives of the national minorities to choose who will be prime minister, who will be the majority, unlike some political parties who think it is wrong in the Republic of Croatia, I think that it is okay, that we can't have representatives of the first and second order, but it is very annoying to me, as well as to the vast majority of Croatian citizens, when I see that it is connected, specifically in the City of Zagreb, Zagreb, it is very annoying, which in that way, the mayor Bandic collects support, and even more irritates me when these MPs are called tokens, and I want to stand in the protection and dignit of his colleagues in HS and to say that no one has the right in this understate way to treat the representatives in his club. For example, if I were a colleague of Jankovics, I would have resigned after such a statement, I would have resigned as club president and left Club Milan Bandic 365 because no one could call me a chip in life. Imagine how underestimating it is to your colleagues who are at the club to call them chips, like you're collecting them, like you're in Casino, not HS and on the Croatian political scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128891	Thank you very much. We have several replicas, the first respected representative of Robert Jankovics, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I'd stick to the subject, I know it's not always easy, but I'll try to keep the subject against Mr. Maras' subjectivity. So, objectively speaking, the City of Zagreb is really the council and representatives of the national minorities financing, therefore, the largest amount, he, if we look at the ratio compared to the budget, is not the largest in the Republic of Croatia, but he is in absolute amount. I want to believe Mr Maras that you are the mayor of the City of Zagreb that the councils and representatives of national minorities here in the City of Zagreb would enjoy at least the same support as they do now. As far as financing is concerned, I say, if I continue to hold on to the topic, therefore, the financing of councils and representatives of national minorities in the City of Zagreb has nothing to do with the work of this club, nor has it, nor will it have in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128893	The answer to the replica of the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128894	Thank you very much. If I had the chance, the funding would be twice as big, but we wouldn't have to come begging the mayor and he would be willing to approve of certain activities and would never come in a position to publicly say that you are in the Zagreb Mayor's Club because you won for this or that activity. And you'd never, it's weird to me if it didn't bother you, to be called mayor of tokens. I have not heard a single word from you and you have had time from that statement to fence yourself from it, to resign at the post of president of the club and to tell the mayor you have no right to treat me as I represent Hungarians in the Croatian Parliament. I'm not me, Robert Jankovics. I'm not a chip. That's what you should say, it's about your dignity. Let Bandic go, it's him today, it's not tomorrow. But for your dignity, don't be a coin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128895	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Veljak Kajtazi, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128896	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, in the first part of your presentation, you said a lot of things that I agree with and in this second part, I must tell you that you at least talked about amending the Law on election of councils and representatives of national minorities. The Roma community and I would have been overjoyed if we had received funds in 18 years on the one you speak, etc. Surely both the councils and the Roma community, the position of the Roma community, would be quite different from the picture itself. I will return precisely to the amendment of the Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities that you have been saying all this time, I fully agree when we say that the means for better functioning should be made possible, not only that but units of local self-government should also allow space for their action because I don't know if you've had the opportunity to visit Roma settlements that we have more than 60 in the Republic of Croatia which I have visited on several occasions and to see how they operate and how they can act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128897	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128898	Thank you very much. Comrade Kajtazi, I was talking about a problem that is impossible to separate from the theme of election for council members, so we can't talk about elections unless we have what they're going to do and how they're going to work and how it's done so far. If we had a transparent system in the city of Zagreb, then it wouldn't have happened that one national minority by the calculations of fellow Friday gets 50% of the funds even though it's nowhere near the most represented in the city of Zagreb because it's then over the finger, who pulls you by the sleeve, means Mayor Bandic works that way. I don't want to work who pulls you by the sleeve, I want to work in a way transparent that everyone knows how someone got the money and how much money he got, it's a problem in the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128899	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Lonchar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128900	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, your debate should not apply to this part here in the Parliament or assembly, but exclusively in the Zagreb City Assembly because it is a subject that is in the jurisdiction of the city of Zagreb. As regards the assistance of the city of Zagreb, the local administration unit throughout Croatia, here I only remind you of the only important fact and the thing so much of the income that happens throughout Croatia and for the benefit of the city of Zagreb is precisely from the works of territory or the entire Republic of Croatia so that they are not small so I ask you, is that why is it that the headquarters of the company that is in Zagreb and is operating throughout Croatia, that part remains in the units of local administrations?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128901	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128902	I think that this legislation has resolved and that it works the way it works, not all companies in Croatia are registered in Zagreb and do not have a seat in Zagreb so it is very difficult to answer this yes/no approach as you asked me to do, but what I am about to tell you right now, I am really sick of you from HDZ telling me what I am going to talk about in Parliament. Every time I get up, someone from HDZ gets up and says you won't talk about Zagreb topics in the Croatian Parliament as if I'm not a representative from Zagreb and as if Zagreb is not about the 1/5 Croatian voters. So with whom do you exclude 1/5 voters in the Republic of Croatia from speaking to them? With what right do you put your Poličnik in front of the city of Zagreb? I have the right to speak the same here as you have the right to speak of your environment, and I will speak, once again please Because it's really starting to irritate me that you're from HDZ telling me what I'm supposed to say. [[Thank you very much.]] I'll say whatever I want. Comrade Maras, please. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much but no longer than the time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure. ...and what of it, what my voters require of me. ...]] But look, Mr. Vice President, this is This is the fifth time someone's told me what I'm going to say and what I won't. [[Intruder Reiner: But longer than time, no longer than time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128903	.../Intruder Reiner: I'm giving you a warning./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128904	Well, I guess HDZ won't tell me what to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128905	All right, now you get a warning with an inability to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128906	Wait a minute, what are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128907	.../Intruder Reiner: We continue on behalf of the Proposer./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128908	What kind of inability, just a little bit? Can you tell me what an inability to speak means?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128909	About this wheel. Next... I agree, but you've formally violated the Rules of Procedure and you've had to get it, because it won't tang you is another matter. [[- Intruder Maras, you can't hear.]] Dear Secretary of State Darko Nekic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here at the end of this debate, or this first reading, I would really like to thank all of you who have made constructive proposals today in this presentation and I think I can say that more than 95% of this debate has been constructive. We are going to consider all of these suggestions that you have made today until the second reading and answer, of course, everything that we can do with this law. This law cannot solve any problems arising from the Constitutional Law but all those remarks you have made that can be incorporated and that can improve this law we will certainly carefully analyse and until the second reading means coming with a new, new proposal. I think that this law, therefore, is going exactly in the direction of improving the system and that the Government of Rh means this law will after the Assembly adopts it an improved system of protection and the rights of national, national minorities, and once again would like to remind us that the Operational Programme for National Minorities is this law so that I hope after the adoption of this law, after the second reading that we will have a much better quality solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128911	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the esteemed representative of Keatazi.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128912	I thank you, I will bear in mind that another reading will come and I would ask as little as to consider the number of council members because at the level of the municipality, cities and counties as we know, at the level of the municipality we have 10, at the level of the city 15 and at the level of the county 25. I think a reduction in the number of councilors that better and more effectively will come to the very functioning of the Council of National Minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128913	That concludes the debate on this point, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128914	Proposal for a Law on selecting councils and representatives of national minorities, first reading, P.Z. Number 557. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Councils and representatives of national minorities and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when setting out the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 108 for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128915	We move to the next point, which is: - A report on a regulation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted on the basis of its legal authority. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 3. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain questions from the Croatian Parliament's section of the regulations. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. Does the applicant’s representative wish to further explain the reports? Yes, respectable secretary of state at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128916	The Parliament, the Honorable Parliamentary Representatives and Representatives, is a law governing the heat market, which has been applied since 28 June 2013 to regulate the production and distribution of heat including concessions on the development of thermal systems, the supply of heat energy, the rights and obligations of customers, final customers and co-owners of buildings, the maintenance and use of installations for the use of heat in a particular building or building. The regulation was adopted because the Law of 2013 did not include the Institute of Public Energy Supply in the way it was resolved by the new Natural Gas Market Act of 2018. The introduction of a transitional period for the opening of the natural gas market by 2021 has led to the need for a rapid resolution of the status of customers of heat energy from the public category in terms of public service rights as it has such a buyer on the gas market. In view of the above, it was necessary to address this issue by regulation until the adoption of the amendments to the Law on the Market in Heat Energy, and no later than the beginning of the heating season 2018 and 2019 in September 2018. The government is on its 111th. The meeting held on 23 August 2018 adopted the Regulation supplementing the Law on the Market in Heat Energy and entered into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal of 24 August 2018, respectively. The Regulation provides that the gas supplier is obliged to supply gas to heat producers under regulated conditions where that gas is used to produce heat for the supply of household customers. In this way, the gas supplier in the public service obligation is extended to supplying energy operators to produce heat for households. This equates the position of the final buyer in the category of household gas that purchases directly and specifically those households that use it as heat produced from gas. In addition, the gas supplier on the wholesale gas market is obliged to sell gas to the gas supplier under the same conditions under which it is sold for the purpose of supplying gas to the buyer in the category of household. The duration of the public service obligation shall be limited until the full demarcation of the gas market by 31 March 2021, which shall be deemed necessary for the achievement of the objectives to be achieved by it. The obligation is proportionate since it relates to the target number of customers and energy entities which cannot have a wider impact on competition. This Regulation shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation places 155.604 households in Croatia in the cities of Zagreb, Samobor, Velika Gorica, Zaprešić, Osijek, Sisak, Karlovac, Ogulin, Požega, Rijeka, Slavonski Brod, Varazdin, Vinkovci, Virovitica and Vukovar equalised their conditions with other households in the Republic of Croatia and estimates that the annual savings of these households were at the level and that this year will be around 7 million kuna, in the last year that this savings was around 2 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128917	Thank you very much. He wants the committee reporter to take his word for it, no. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club will speak to the esteemed representative Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128918	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with Associates, this Report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of its legal powers is based on the Law on the Powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as you said in the Regulation was adopted on 23 August 2018 by a regulation intended to achieve regulation of the same way of obtaining gas to final customers who use gas for the production of heat, as you mentioned in this Regulation, this Regulation is more than 150000 households located in cities that receive, which in this way obtain energy, means that someone produces heat, placed in the same position with all those who are heated in a way that they are directly supplied with gas, which is for every praise, and I think that the Government had a legitimate reason to adopt such regulation at this time when the Assembly was not ambushed, and were, were certain deadlines in which should be made available to ensure that all of Croatia, that they could be provided by means of the law, and therefore, that they would be able to provide for all of the club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128919	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives will be, we don't, he should have spoken to a respected representative, Tomislav Žagar, but he's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he will be, we'll move on to an individual debate that was attended by a respected representative, Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about the legal powers or constitutional powers of the Government to adopt regulations in its field of action when the Parliament does not meet, unfortunately, from year to year certain situations are repeated which may not be justified, that they happen and it is simply possible to plan certain things, so this problem didn't happen yesterday, it's not, it's not something that's unpredictable, and it could have been very easy to prevent and resolve before it's solved now. What is problematic is that in certain situations problems are solved less transparently and accessible to the public than they are otherwise. For example, I agree that the area of regulation and gas procurement, and since it is also a large number of citizens who spend, and in this way warms their homes, is very important, but when it happens, when you create a problem, when you have to solve it at some point, then, quickly, when it's solved, it's quite often the impression that someone might be comfortable and that in some way a part of the private sector you go, you go on hand. So I'm not prone to such solutions, I'm not inclined to do it quickly if it can be planned, if there is a problem, it should be resolved that time, or in the most transparent way possible. It is clear to everyone in these winter months that the heating costs are quite high, so we have, we have a problem that Croatian citizens, especially those older people who now look at us from their homes, have a lot of high overhead heating costs, and that unfortunately the Republic of Croatia and some cities, I can point out again the City of Zagreb, do not follow certain trends that would allow citizens to have their buildings refurbished, and that these costs are lower. When you look at the facades in the City of Zagreb and the announced new business of Mayor Bandic, then you are aware that nothing is going on in the City of Zagreb. It is about several facades that have been restored, and hundreds and hundreds of facades and interested citizens, and thousands, not hundreds, but thousands of facades and interested citizens who would have fewer bills, less bills for heating, stay out of function, and thus prevent them from being renovated, and the funds exist, and not even needed from the city budget of the City of Zagreb to single out as much as the mayor has imagined, but simply the funds exist within the framework of European funds, and in the framework of a programme which the Croatian Government and the Croatian Ministry of the EU funds could plan to rebuild, so that people have lower energy costs or heating costs, and that ultimately they would look not only better at their buildings, because when you look at what looks like Donji City in the City of Zagreb and all those facades, it is something that I think is simply inadmissible that, that, however, what is so important, people would have less, the cost of their lives would be kept and the quality of their lives, and the quality of living. And that should be talked about, and when this topic appears on the agenda which is extremely important, said counterpart Felak and for 150000 households in the Republic of Croatia, especially in the area of large cities, here I have said the City of Zagreb is there dominated by, with the number of these 150000, what should be pointed out that unfortunately we are not using the European Funds, it is a European topic, we are entering the European elections, and one of the things that, representatives who are running for the European Parliament, have to promote is that we use these funds that are available to our citizens to benefit as much as possible from them, in a way that they have more quality, valuable property, better property, but what is even more important, in order to have as little heating bills as possible, because there are no pensioners in the city of Zagreb who have pensions of 1500-2000 kuna, whether they will pay their apartment 300 or 700 euros per month, 700 euros. If we were to make good use of the funds available to us from the European Union, if the city administration were as efficient as some other cities as regards the withdrawal of EU funds, believe me, in a year, two days, it would be possible to fully redecorate the city and eventually come to the conclusion that our citizens are not paying for the heating of 400, 500 kn, but perhaps 200, 250. Now ask yourself, how much would each of our retirement homes benefit from 250 kn a month that would be more available to them? Of course, what to point at, this debate must be conducted publicly, it must be available to a wider circle of Croatian citizens, which is why I am not prone to such solutions as if the problem had appeared yesterday on today, I am not prone to these solutions, then in the procedure, at the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to resolve it quickly. Such a debate must be held in HS, it must also be available in a public debate, it must be available to as many Croatian citizens as possible because it touches a large number of Croatian citizens. This may be more than 600, 700 000 of our fellow citizens who are directly touched by this decision, and we must have this debate in public. So, once again, let us use what is available to us, the European Funds, to restore facades in large cities, in the City of Zagreb, for example, and in other cities, not only in the City of Zagreb, in Osijek, in Split, means, in all major cities where there is a need for it, in order to halve the costs of heating for our citizens, and especially for the pensioners who are watching us today and who, believe me, are terrified from day to day that they will meet with low pensions at the end of the month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128921	Thank you. We have one replica, a respected representative of Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128922	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Maras, I agree with you that such decisions should not be made in emergency procedures, government regulations, but should be discussed in HS on the basis of arguments, I think the main argument should be how our residents live, how much they receive, and when you hear the information that more than 80% of the pensioners cannot live on pension and that they should have the help of one of the members of the household or family, and now the announced gas collection is a major blow for them, especially as is announced by the rise in water prices. We see that the price of heating wood has gone away, that it has grown and that no heating tree is available to people living on the edge of the forest because of policies run by Croatian forests. If you still collect electricity, which is real if the price of gas goes up, then how will ours live in the country and how will they live through these cold days at all, I think we should discuss it publicly, not like this. secretly say it's not that big an increase, is, it's big [[Intruder: Thank you]] A coup on our pensioners' home budget. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128923	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128924	Thank you very much. I may even believe that there was no special intention of this debate being hidden from the Croatian public, it simply came that way. I appeal to my ministry colleagues to just avoid it next time, so we have a chance to discuss it in some normal procedure, because I say, whenever it comes to the government regulation, when it's settled, it's always a question of whether there's any interest on the side, and that's why here, I appeal that next time it doesn't work out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128925	And now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Ivo Miletic will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128926	.../The speaker disfellowshipped/...the esteemed parliamentary representatives and MPs, the basic intensity of this regulation was the interest of Croatian citizens because we simply couldn't allow it to happen that one large part, as the esteemed representative Maras said, about 600,000 of our citizens, were in a different position to the rest. What I must stress on behalf of the Ministry and the Government, which is that by the end of this year, we will safely transpose this regulation into law, given that the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the heat market has already gone into procedure. What is also important to mention, and what was here, was the debate on energy efficiency, it is important to know that all the measures that have been taken through alternative measures in energy efficiency taken by local self-government, regional self-government, state or fund and the Ministry of Construction have been taken in a very large scope, and by adopting in this House a new law on energy efficiency where we have introduced both a system of mandatory schemes and new energy efficiency commitments, additional engagement, not only of the public sector, but also of the private sector energy efficiency, and this refers specifically to facades and all other activities related to energy efficiency. So this government is doing with various sublegal acts of maximum effort to increase, practically double, financially and every other effort in terms of energy efficiency, which is then in favour of the thesis that both heat costs and everything else are lower. To note what was said about buildings around the City of Zagreb and in general about buildings in the Republic of Croatia, that this year is expected to compete from the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning in terms of renovation, energy renovation of private buildings, which is one newspaper and which will certainly go. When you mention poor people or citizens with poorer property status, you know that electricity vouchers are provided from the budget, that wood heating is financed by all budgets, and also in the new energy efficiency law, it is envisaged that when financed in terms of energy efficiency, the part that is social, or people who are socially at risk, that this part of the sector will receive certain benefits, which is indirectly and directly by law, is actually intended to stimulate this increase. What is the EU's commitment, as well as us as Member States, is that energy poverty cannot be tackled on the supplyer's burden and on the burden of the economy dealing with energy supply rather than through the budget, and that part is regulated in the budget and ensured. So in that part, liquid things are being done. All in all, I thank you for the debate and here I can only say as we did last year in this esteemed home we had a regulation on renewable energy sources that we implemented in the law and this year we did not come with this regulation there but it was implemented in the law so we will implement this regulation in the course of this year, as is the urgency of the government's regulation with the legal power to implement it as soon as possible into the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128927	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the respected representative of Damir Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128928	Dear Secretary of State, my replica goes in the direction of what you just said lastly means that the government rarely uses this institute to make regulations for legal power. But this time it was necessary, and I think it is necessary to point out once again because, through the discussions of colleagues, Maras and replicas, the impression that this regulation has raised the price of gas, which is absolutely incorrect. On the contrary, more than 150 thousand households or over 600,000 citizens were allowed to keep the same price of gas and those receiving heating directly from the gas system and those receiving it through the so-called so-called gas system. the heat plant, or the heat manufacturer. So the government allowed this regulation to keep the price of gas as it was and not to increase the price of gas.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128929	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128930	Report on a Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of legal authority. The applicant of the act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion. A report on the Regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is hereby adopted on the basis of legal authority. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for and 1 vote against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128931	Before we move on to the next point, since quite a small number of MPs reported for this next debate. If we get to 15 hours, we'll discuss and report to the mandated immunity commission so that we can take care of it so that we can discuss it before we get to interpretation. And now we will move to the next point, which is: - The proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2019; the Report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is based on Article 33. The law on official statistics. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the applicant's representative want to further explain the report? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Zdravko Zrinasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128932	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. On the basis of the Law on Official Statistics, the State Bureau of Statistics, in cooperation with other holders of official statistics under this Act, drawn up a draft of the Annual Implementation Plan for Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2019. It was accepted at the 11th session of the Statistical Council of the Republic of Croatia held on 12 November last year. Otherwise, the Annual Implementation Plan for statistical activities shall be adopted for each calendar year and this Annual Implementation Plan shall be adopted for the second year... a new programming document called the Programme of Statistical Activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018, 2020 based on the needs of users of official statistics and EU requirements. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual implementation plan shall cover the review of all statistical research or development activities that the official statistics holders intend to carry out in this year and, in accordance with the Official Statistics Act, this Annual Implementation Plan shall be subject to the implementation of three types of research. The first is statistical research based on direct data collection. These are other statistical surveys, which are obtained from administrative sources or by observation and monitoring methods. And the third is developmental activity... and other extensive statistical research. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The annual implementation plan for this year plans to implement a total of 284 statistical activities, of which 164 are based on direct data collection and 82 research based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring and 38 development activities. Of these 284 statistical activities, the State Statistics Office will carry out 236 activities while the other 48 will be carried out by other official statistics holders from the Official Statistics Act and from the statistical programme and from the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia 2018/20. A year. These are therefore CNB, HZJZ, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Agriculture, Croatian Environment and Nature Agency and the administrative body of the city of Zagreb responsible for official statistics services for the territory of Zagreb. I would just like to point out here that, in line with the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Environment and Nature Agency has since 1 January been attached to the Ministry of Protection and the Environment and Energy, following what will be taken over by the competent ministry from the section of the mentioned agency. According to the areas, statistical research and projects in 2019 refer to 6 areas, i.e. first in the area of demographic and social statistics, 74 statistical research of the project is planned. In the area of macroeconomic statistics 46, in business statistics a hundred. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries statistics 39. In statistics for higher areas of 24 and in support and statistical output one statistical survey through development activities. In accordance with the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the projections for 2019 and 2020, the total planned funds for the implementation of the annual implementation plan of statistical activities are € 139.3 million, of which the resources of the State Statistics Institute amount to HRK 116.2 million. Under the financial plan... The State Statistics Office for 2019 planned expenditure is financed from general income and receipts amounting to just over 107 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And out of its own revenue of 234 000 and 800 kuna, other aids worth 190 thousand kuna, aid to the EU amounting to just over a million kuna, other EU refunds amount to 6.7 million kuna, and the European Social Fund also slightly more than a million kuna. In line with one of the general statistical objectives, the State Statistics Institute has consistently sought to increase the level of user involvement in the statistical activity definition process. Active participation, involvement of stakeholders, is an important prerequisite for further development and improvement of official statistics of the Republic of Croatia, especially with regard to meeting user needs. So over the last few years in the course... The annual implementation plan of statistical activities shall seek to include a wider set of institutions, as well as other users in the process of its production. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Following the merger, the draft annual implementation plan shall be submitted to the opinion of all ministries and other bodies of the state administration, and shall be discussed and accepted by the statistical advice of the Republic of Croatia, which shall constitute an advisory and expert body for the strategic issues of official statistics. Finally, by virtue of the Law on Official Statistics and for the sake of adoption, this proposal for an annual implementation plan for the statistical activity of the Republic of 2019 is submitted to the HS. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128933	Thank you very much. Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I am opening the debate and the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club will speak to the esteemed representative Marijana Balic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128934	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, Honored Secretary of State Zrinisic, Honored Director Kristoff, colleagues and colleagues, as mentioned in the opening statement by the Secretary of State, we have before us a proposal for the annual implementation plan of the statistical activities produced by the State Bureau of Statistics in cooperation with other holders of official statistics, and based on the Law on Official Statistics. The annual implementation plan shall be adopted for each year concerning the programme of statistical activities, so that this plan, which is ahead of us, relates to the second year of the new multiannual programming document. It covers a review of all statistical research or development activities planned in 2019, whose importance should certainly be highlighted. This annual implementation plan planned to implement a total of 284 statistical activities, compared to the previous 2018. increase by 4 activities. According to the prescribed division, of the 284 statistical activities we heard, 164 are based on direct data collection, 82 based on administrative sources or method of observation and monitoring, and 38 development activities. The institution itself, or the State Statistics Office, will carry out of a total of 284 statistical activities, 236, which is also compared to the previous year, an increase of 4 activities, while all other activities will be carried out by other official statistics holders listed in the Law on Official Statistics and the programme of statistical activities 2018 to 2020. We have planned the funds, as we have heard, in the amount of 139 million 395 thousand and 202 kuna, which is also an increase of 6 million kuna compared to the previous year, which can also be attributed to, or indicated for, activities that will be as preparation for the census of population, households and dwellings in 2021. The plan in question also shows that it is good that the area of special attention is focused on business statistics, demographic and social statistics, and macroeconomic statistics, which is primarily important for the sake of compliance with the ESA methodology or the European system of national and regional accounts. In conclusion, of course, the HDZ Representatives Club will support the proposal for the annual implementation plan of the 2019 statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128935	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is one of the independent representatives on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Zhagar should speak. He's gone, he's losing his right to speak, so he's going to speak on behalf of the HNS MPs' club, the respected representative of Christmas Macar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128936	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President HS, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, at first to say that, of course, the HNS Club will support this implementation plan for 2019, as we supported and actually the programme of statistical activities of the Republic of Croatia in 2018 until 2020, which we brought here to HS, and it is, in fact, the latter second year of these activities being carried out. The programme itself is based on the needs of users of official statistics, but also on EU requirements. I say right away that we are often as bonds of some statistical reporting often irritated by a variety of data that we have to fill, the time we spend to do so, but I must commend the State Statistics Office that in the last 5 years, a lot has really changed for better than all those applications that we have no more sheets to fill, that we no longer have so much unnecessary data that can be obtained from other sources, so it is good and worth and commendation. I believe, with this annual implementation plan for 2019 of 284 statistical activities, 164 are still based on direct data collection, and 82 based on administrative sources or methods of observation and monitoring and 38 more development activities. That this ratio in next year's plan will be even more in favour of statistical research based on administrative sources and observation methods, therefore, will be reduced by that part of the direct collection that directly burdens our owners, that I am not talking about farmers, especially small ones, because here in Chapter 4, we have research into agriculture, forestry and fisheries statistics where direct collection is planned for 13, through administrative sources 20. I believe that this ratio will also improve because it is particularly a problem for them when they have to sit down for a computer, whether they are still in paper form and fill in certain tables and enter certain data. I know that we need these data to make a quality analysis and therefore a qualitative plan to move forward, but I believe that I will say that in that part and further perfecte myself to go to discharge and relief in this part of the statistical research and, of course, as I said, we support this Statistical Activity Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128937	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the Living Wall and Power in the name of the respected representative Ivan Pernar, who is missing, losing his right to speak. We move on to an individual debate, first came the Honored Representative Ivan Lovrinović, gone, lost his right to speak. Then came the Honorable Representative Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak. That concludes the debate on this point, and we will vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128938	Proposal for the Annual Implementation Plan for the Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2019. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Implementation Plan of the Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2019. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 108 for and 2 votes against the adoption of the Annual Implementation Plan of Statistical Activities of the Republic of 2019.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128939	As announced now we will discuss the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of Mr. Zarko Tušek to file a report, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128940	I thank you, the distinguished Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, the Mandate-Immunity Commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 46th session held on 14 February 2019 a written statement by Representative Drazen Milinkovic on the re-behaving of the representative of the office sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that it was based, that it was based on Article 14. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Assembly of MPs began on 20 October 2016 and that deputy deputy MPs' duties began to act as Davor Milicevic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed that the stay of the parliamentary term cannot take less than 6 months, and after the deadline, the MP may again start acting as representative by submitting a written statement to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The term of office shall be suspended, in accordance with the cited Article, for 8 days from the submission of the written statement. Accordingly, the commission found that the conditions for the suspension of Drazen Milinkovic's term of office with no debate were met, the unanimous committee proposed to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the suspension of the term of office of representative and the termination of the term of office of deputy representative. On 21 February 2019, the term of office of representative Drazen Milinkovic ceases. The term of office of the deputy deputy representative shall cease to be held by Davor Milicevic on 21 February 2019. Second, the Council of Ministers of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at today's 46th session held on 14 February 2019 the request of the State Attorney's Office in Vukovar from 24 January 2019 by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by means of an act of 11 February 2019 to give approval to the President of the Croatian Parliament for the initiation of criminal proceedings against Marijan Kustic, a representative on grounds of suspicion that he committed a criminal offence in the cause of road traffic accident referred to in Articles 227(1), 2nd and 5. Penalty law. Marijan Kustic started acting on 9 June 2017 as a representative in the 9th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be open or prosecuted without a decision of the Croatian Parliament. Also, without a debate with 5 votes for the commission today, a decision has been given to initiate criminal proceedings against Marijan Kustic in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Department in Vukovar as of 24 January 2019 by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia by means of an act of 11 February 2019 on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence in the cause of road traffic accident referred to in Articles 1, 2 and 5. Penalty law. In this case, the Commission has taken the view that in cases where the prosecution of a representative is sought by a state body, means the court or the State's Attorney's Office, representatives are granted the abolition of their immunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128941	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on this report. No one's answering, so I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote on the report when the conditions are met. Since we were very fast and efficient then we will now take a break until 13 p.m. when there will be a stand on behalf of the clubs, and at 15 o'clock we will have a debate on the Interpellation on the work of the Government of the Republic regarding the acquisition of the squadron of multi-purpose combat planes. Here, thank you. MEETING IN 12.04 HOURS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128942	A report by the mandate-immunity commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Drazen Milinkovic and the suspension of the office of deputy Deputy Davor Milicevic, the debate was concluded, I am voting on the motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of representative Drazen Milinkovic and to suspend the behaviour of deputy representative Davor Milic. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 107 votes for the Z, a decision has been made as proposed by the mandate-immunity commission. I remind you that Drazen Milinkovic took an oath at the constitutive session of the Croatian Parliament, held on 14 October 2016. I wish my representative Drazen Milinkovic success in carrying out an honorable and responsible representative's duties, and I thank my colleague, Milicevic, for being with us all this, all these years. We are going to the final item on which we will vote, this is the report of the mandate-immunity committee on the application for authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Marijan Kustic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament, to be concluded, to vote on the motion for a decision to vote, to be granted the authorisation to initiate criminal proceedings against Marijan Kustic, a representative in the Croatian Parliament at the request of the State Attorney's Office in Vukovar, number KDO 357/2019 of 24 January 2019, sent by the State Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia, Act No A 81/2019 of 11 February 2019 on the grounds that he committed the criminal offence of causing a traffic accident in road transport, as referred to in Article 227, paragraph 1 of the First, 2 and 5 of the Criminal Code. Please, let's vote. I find that, unanimously, 102 votes to the Z, a decision has been taken as proposed by the mandate-immunity commission. We've come to an end, so, now we'll have time for free speech, then we'll continue with the points we've predicted for today, just one announcement, just wait a little while longer, so we'll continue to work on Tuesday, February 19th, when we're going to declare the amendments, we've got 313 amendments, so we're going to go, please know everything on Tuesday, we'll start with a free speech as we do every time at the beginning of the week, then there's a statement on the amendments until we're done during the day. We will then continue to work normally on Wednesday, February 20th, and will receive a draft agenda or a proposal for a series of discussions, as well as so far on time. I thank all those who will no longer participate in the work today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so that we can approach the vote, please also for a little silence so that we can work uninterruptedly. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.05 HOURS]] Before we start voting, we welcome all the participants and participants of the Political Academy of the Croatian National Testament Foundation from Zagreb together. Welcome. ... We are going with the first Decision today, this is the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Andrija Mikulić's term of office and the start of the conduct of deputy representative Ante Plazonic, as well as of the termination of the representative's office, Marijan Kustic, and the start of the conduct of the parliamentary post of deputy representative Martin Baricevic. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Comrade Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128944	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 47th session held on April 3rd 2019 a written notice from the science doctor Andrija Mikulić of 01 April 2019, informing the President of the Croatian Parliament to put his representative mandate on hold for the conduct of the chief state inspector who is incompatible with the conduct of the parliamentary duties within the meaning of the provision of Article 9. Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Democratic Community, in accordance with Article 42(3) of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, has designated Ante Plazonic as the deputy representative of the doctor of science, Andrija Mikulić. The commission found that the law lays down the conditions for the start of the stay of Andrija Mikulic's representative mandate, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Ante Plazonic. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 1306/2013 of 13 December 2013 laying down detailed rules for the application of Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the application of Regulation (EC) No 1049/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1088/2006 establishing a European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 establishing a European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 (EC) No 2111/2006 and Council Regulation (EC) No 2111/2006 establishing a European Parliament and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 2111/2006 as regards the European Parliament and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1088/2006 as regards the European Parliament and repealing On April 1st, it shall begin the rest of the representative's term of office of science doctor Andrija Mikulić, acting in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act as deputy representative of Ante Plazonic on the day when the Assembly determines the legal assumptions for the application of the exchange institute. The mandate-immunity commission of the Croatian Parliament also discussed at the 47th session held on 3 April 2019 a written statement on the resignation of MP Marijan Kustic sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the act of 01 April 2019. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign. The commission found that Marijan Kustic began acting as deputy deputy representative on 9 June 2017 instead of elected representative Darko Milinovic. The Croatian Democratic Community, in accordance with Article 42(2) of the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, has appointed Martin Baricevic as deputy elected representative of Darko Milinovic. The commission found that the resignation of the parliamentary office laid down the conditions for the termination of the deputy representative, Marijan Kustic, as well as the conditions for the start of acting as deputy representative of Martin Baricevic. With that Mandate-Immunity Commission pursuant to Articles 10, 11 and 42(2). The Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament unanimously with five votes to the ZA, proposes to the Croatian Parliament a decision to suspend the parliamentary mandate and start acting as deputy deputies. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, Marijan Kustic, ends the parliamentary term on the day of the Croatian Parliament's decision to terminate. Mr Martin Baricevic, acting as deputy representative in accordance with Article 9, paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament begin to act when the Assembly sets out legal assumptions for the application of the Institute of Replacement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128945	I thank my colleague, Tušek, and I am opening a debate on the Reports of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, a colleague of Pernar's three and a colleague of Maras came forward, and then we are going to the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA colleagues Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128946	Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to say that it's an extraordinary honor to speak in front of a full Parliament, I haven't had a chance to see you all together in a long time. But the reason why I'm talking to you is about these replacements in the House that aren't in themselves controversial, so it's not a problem that one MP on duty replaces another MP, but what's really a problem in the whole story is that we've come into a situation where MPs who are in the Assembly are making their work impossible and they're actually silenced when they're talking. So we can change the blood count of the Parliament through replacements, the rotations of MPs, or MPs, but what it's worth if those MPs who are in the Assembly are silenced, they're not allowed to speak, and then they're physically expelled, meaning force from this House. That's what I'm talking about because the duties of the MPs don't come out of it, so ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ, I didn't choose myself here, I'm not just here because I wanted to, but because the citizens chose me to represent them here. By using physical violence, against the elected parliamentary representative, coercion is not only committed to him, but also to those who represent him. I believe that each of you and the ruling and opposition have the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure, the Rules of Procedure are clear and simple, spoken 15 minutes on behalf of the club, 10 minutes individually and 5 minutes final on behalf of the club. So that the replica can be up to three, one minute at a time. If I assess or any other advocate, who will be replaced, elected or whatever, that what he is talking about is important and that this is in line with the subject, one cannot, arbitraryly, claim by his will that the same does not talk about the subject and then use physical violence to remove it from the assembly. It's not moral, it's not right and it's unfair. Imagine the situation, that one day, that one day, you're talking, let's say, about my crime. You say Pernar's in crime, Pernar stole millions, Pernar was selling buildings, something above or below the price, or he sold it to the INA, or whatever it is that someone from the Living Wall tells you, listen, you're talking off the subject, come on out, shut up, guard him out. So it would be clear to you.../Adversary President: I am now warning you for the first time, that you are talking about a topic that is not the subject of debate, the subject of the debate is the replacement of representatives Andrija Mikulić and Ante Plazonic, and in the second case Marijan Kustic and Marin Baricevic. I invite you to stick to the subject.. apropo replacement of these MPs, it is clear to you that it is completely irrelevant who in the Assembly will change who, if the same, who will sit in the Assembly, will not be free to say what they think. And that's a serious problem. I'm surprised none of you see the problem, but on the contrary, you even approve of such behavior. This debate, about replacing the mandate, takes place at this moment in history and in this time, only because the chairman decided to do so. So the chairman decided to put this debate now, at noon, and that's why I'm here today, if the debate had been yesterday night, I would have talked about this yesterday night. So don't be mad at me because you guys have to listen to me from HDZ, don't be angry and inside yourself, what this Pernar's talking about right now, I have to sit there, because the vote, I have to come now for the vote, and that's where Pernar tells me. Move or vote or discuss Mr Kustic's mandate and this other one at another time. So I have absolutely nothing against it. So for your anxiety, or, as you might say, maybe not anxiety, but rather impatience, why do you have to sit here right now, and I know that all of you, when I speak, there are no gentlemen here from HDZ. And the question is why are you not here, and why are you here today? Are you sitting here today to listen to the debate about replacing the mandate or are you sitting here today just to vote? It's a question to ask. My guess is that you came here to just vote, and you're not actually discussing replacing your colleagues' mandate, and I guess that's why there's a certain kind of tension in the air. But again, who's to blame? Did I decide to have this debate now? In my court not, I say again, why, because the agenda is decided by the chairman, it's not up to me to decide. The same thing was with the amendments, when the Bridge gentlemen defended the amendments. So they didn't decide that the debate would last at midnight. That's what the chairman decided. The same thing was given, the chairman decided to discuss replacing the mandate at noon. However, as Mr Kustic points out the mandate in the parliament, or that he is being replaced, the question arises, what will happen with the indictment, which the DORH has filed against him for causing a car accident. Now, will that man perhaps end up the same as this poor man Sanader, whom you have paintedly pushed down the stairs? And there's a man among you who's also named, I mean Sanader and now he'll probably say, I have nothing to do with that man and you'll probably all talk, but I think that's me, low. Imagine saying, we're all honest, and you Ivo, you're a thief. It's a story that's trying to introduce itself to our public. And the systemic problem, in fact, the systemic problem of this House of High is hypocrisy and that people, which these discussions, about immunity, do not take place more often. Because these discussions about removing immunity or replacing MPs result in acquisition or loss of immunity, that's what you're aware of, sir. Because it's not the same as being a representative or not being a representative. If you're not a representative, then it turns out that you don't have immunity, and if you are a representative, then you have it. So it doesn't matter if someone's representing or not. However, all that matters is that representatives must be allowed to carry out their duties. Because otherwise, what's the point of us being represented? What good am I personally, for let's be honest, MPs in the Parliament are divided into MPs of the parliamentary majority and minority. Those of us who are parliamentary minorities alone, we influence the Parliament and the length of the debate and you are aware of it. So, only the length of the debate can I influence here. And now imagine, because look, it doesn't matter to you exactly what you're going to talk about because you know that you're going to make decisions and now you know that my only weapon, the only instrument of political action speech, and your meaning of the ruling majority's advocate is making decisions, and then let's say that we defend ourselves to the opposition to speak, it's a dangerous precedent. And I hope that in this House one day there will be political wisdom that it will be recognised or that the legislator, or rather those who lead at that time, will understand that every MP, regardless of being elected as last on the list preferentially or enter the Parliament as a replacement as in the case that will happen now, has the right to say what he thinks. And why am I saying that? Why does it matter? Because you've been changing the Rules of Procedure, so you're about to stop the debate. Well, you're aware of that. The time of the replicas you halved the duration of the replica from two minutes to one side, and on the other hand you made it possible to only be three replicas. There could have been as many replicas as you wanted. Which means that the new MPs who will replace the old ones who will now become and swear on parliamentary duty do not know how the Assembly previously worked because they had not previously been MPs. And the other problem you created by killing the debate is next. You are currently if you crack replicas like you will, for example, new HDZ representatives, whom I certainly believe will be very active in the debates and will regularly be in the sittings as you who are always regular and always knowingly perform your duty. I believe that sometimes they'll find themselves in a situation to, say, crack replicas and they can't replicate. Then there's damage to the Rules of Procedure. And actually, the main reason why we have an epidemic today is because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. And the Rules of Procedure are being misused because there is no possibility of correcting an incorrect quote, the number of replicas is limited and, in fact, so to speak, MPs are improvising. But the cause of this improvisation is trying to create an image to say when these new HDZ deputies will enter the Assembly to replace the old ones, trying to create a picture that they may one day be raising the injuries of the Rules of Procedure as intentional to violate the Rules of Procedure, so they will chair them as reprove, etc. However, the real reason is that they were taken away by another means or another opportunity to express their dissatisfaction, dissatisfaction, or whatever I say. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and MPs, you are given the opportunity as well as those who, thanks to these changes, will only become to speak from this stage, from this pay phone. But if you don't use it, unless you're going to say what you're thinking, if these new replacements are just going to be part of one mechanism means some mechanical hands that are rising or descending depending on what kind of directive is from the top, the point of the question is what is the meaning of their existence. Because if they're going to mechanically raise their hands, if you're all going to vote the same, then we don't need people and MPs. Then we can put in more working robots or bots, or I don't know what to call it, machines that will do what you do for a lot less money. So it is possible to achieve savings in this House in a way that if it is evident, and in my court it is evident that decisions by the ruling majority are made by automation and without some excessive debate. The question is, what's the point then, why do we pay these people if it's clear in advance that they're going to vote on the one hand, and on the other hand they're not taking part in the debate anyway? I would like to point out another problem that will concern, among other things, the future parliamentary representatives who will just become one. In certain legislative bodies, the presence of a half-dominated majority of MPs is needed in order to be discussed, which would mean, for example, that in this House. We wouldn't be able to argue if there wasn't a quorum. Such a situation is, for example, in Republika Srpska, there in their assembly in Banja Luka if there is no more than half of the debate present is not possible. While we here in the Parliament can argue at least he was, let's say fellow Bulj was recently left alone in the Parliament and could de facto argue with himself and the debate was possible. So in some other systems, it's not possible for two people in the body to discuss 150 of them. So, if the citizens want the MPs who are at the moment, who will just become or will enter as a substitute to be present at the debates that the Parliament is not empty. The Rules of Procedure must be amended in a way that requires a half-dominated majority or quorum for discussion. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128947	Now we're going to individual debates and first up is colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128948	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken to the empty chairs recently, but today I am speaking to you, living people, and it is a sincere honor that I cannot describe with anything because it means a lot to me that you hear my words because of your absence you rarely have the opportunity to do the same. However, the absence of a representative from the debate is not the only reason why you will not, for example, hear what the representative has to say. replacing the mandate of distinguished members of your esteemed esteemed honest truthful and just party known as HDZ, is already one of the reasons why you can't hear this debate about what those who would talk about are, physically thrown or figuratively, my jargon has been delegated from this House of Commons. Also, the fact is that citizens are indisputable by the way it is being debated in Parliament and that it is not clear to them how it is possible that during the vast majority of the debates, the assembly is empty, that there is no MP in it and that everyone is regularly getting paid, and that is why today, on Friday at 12, we found ourselves here in such a large number, in my court not to discuss the replacement of the mandate, but today, in my court, we are here only because you gentlemen from the ruling majority, came here to vote. Speaking of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, I'd like to refer to another person who is sitting here today and we've been removing immunity for the time being, it's about Tomislav Sauchi. Namely, I was personally against it then and the HDZ gentlemen then voted to raise his immunity and I mention it during this debate about gentlemen who would change HDZ representatives just to warn them too that if one day they were dismissed from their party as Ivo Sanader did, they would be able to get the black fate that Ivo spent in prison today. And what I'm saying is that at the moment when certain representatives of the ruling majority will no longer be needed and Mr. Saucha's question of how much longer the HDZ will be needed, the question is how long will he remain at that time and the question is how much is his HDZ friend and how much does Mr. Saucha really think about the same thing, but we let Mr. Saucha go, the debate is like we said about replacing Mr. Kustic's mandate and another one I don't know by name. And the reason why I don't know this other HDZ representative by name is not my fault and my will, but only because this man has not pointed out through my eyes, or I personally do not notice him, and I'm afraid that even the citizens who did not notice him in this debate, but in this House, the least important thing is whether one of the MPs is present during the debate or not, is here only whether it matters if there is a vote here or not. And this speech of mine is an act of protest according to the way the Croatian Parliament works, in which the assembly is not half empty but almost completely empty during the vast majority of debates and only on Fridays when that bell is heard as in school, there is a tide of representatives who suddenly enter the assembly from all corners of the Parliament. I was able to point out by this speech that citizens are actually bitter about such a way of working because the fact is that you have a nat average salary, you gentlemen MPs, and these gentlemen who will soon become it if the replacement is voted, and that your work is quite thin. As long as the Assembly guard who brings me out and who has real work and who has to be work and during their working hours have to be in place, they have the same thing to say, or much bigger work, harder work and physical behavior, and their wages are lower than you are here all the time. And so this time I use this moment to express my full support to the union asking for more money for those people who bring me out of the House, and I would like to say it this time during this debate about the new MPs who are going to become it, if it were this, this topic and them, because maybe today and tomorrow, they're going to be out of this House, and it's really their turn to get a bigger salary. He says, in a statement, the Union stands out, state and local officials and deputies who requested today's chairman, Mr Jandrokovic, to assign an extra for the delivery of Pernar from the Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128949	Comrade Pernar, please stick to the subject, you've wandered away again, you've been good, but now you're wandering a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128950	Mr. Jandrokovic, okay, let's start assuming they choose... about the replacements that will come, meaning that they must be exported and if they have to be exported, there will be a problem and he would just like to say why. [[Speakers speak at the same time, doesn't understand.]] In accordance with the Working Protection Regulation, when carrying the load by hand, the appropriate conditions for carrying the load, if keeping the body at transfer are appropriate, the space for moving and walking is large enough, the ground is straight and that the terrain has a suitable catch point. They note that when carrying out, it means not only me but also these new representatives who could just become one, it is not possible to ensure that the first MPs, meaning possible these new HDZ representatives must first reach from the constituency bench in a narrowed and tapered space, where the Assembly guards keep the body in a deep predetermined position where there is a danger of damage to the back. Since the employer is unable to carry the burden manually due to the configuration of the assembly, it means that the newly elected representatives of the HDZ may be replaced by an appropriate working device, aid and applied mechanical aids. The only solution for the parliamentary guards who could hypothetically take them out of the assembly is to recognise the addition to the special conditions of work in the form of an add-on, they say, but as I said could be applied to MPs who, after the decision or vote, will become MPs after the conclusion of the MIP, noting that the supplement should be increased on a percentage basis in the case of the repeated delivery of a corporate parliamentary representative, is said in a union statement. Now, the floor, they listed in a corulent way the example of Mira Bulja, but I think it really doesn't matter whether it's going to be a skinny representative or, say, someone who might not be, to put it that way, skinny, who, like Mr. Ivan Shucker, because it's really easy to get me out of the assembly, but there are people here who would be much harder, and therefore I fully support this union of subsistence proposal, and I suggest that a coefficient be made by kilograms, simply to take pictures of the MPs to perform and weigh, and not only at the beginning and end of the mandate to see how this work actually affected them. I believe that these criteria and this practice should also be applied to MPs who, if the MIP's decision is so, should be replaced and, in this way, another note is added to this high home. A note that will show the effect of MPs or the influence of parliamentary work on their work. And one more thing I would like to say is, it is my great honor that this debate, that it has raised such an interest that more and more people appear and that the Croatian public is finally talking about the question of the status of parliamentary representatives, their salaries and their presence at work. Thank you, Chairman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128951	You were a very funny colleague of Pernar's, you only forgot to say that your colleague threatened the guards with death. That's just as important, so when we're having a lot of fun together and laughing at me, it's not funny at all, that ending. If everything else was a joke, it would be good, but what we saw yesterday wasn't a joke, it was a very serious threat that wasn't appropriate for the assembly. So please, let's have a laugh. You have three replicas. Dear fellow Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128952	You were talking about immunity that will get new deputies here, but look at that immunity won't allow them to tell the truth. Why? Because a private lawsuit for mental pain can be launched against the MPs. So Davor Bernardic received an inadmissible verdict at 75,000 kuna for the words spoken in this assembly. I was given an inadmissible sentence of 40,000 kuna because of the words spoken for this pay phone on behalf of the club. Careful not their mental pains are so great, but their souls are small, so the pain looks great in such small souls. So did you, and you were the object of persecution for writing graphite, and those who carried bags of money to Sanader are sitting there in these benches.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128953	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128954	It's true, MP Stazic, unlike me, which the DORH is persecuting, or decided to press charges against me for writing graphite, some who were carrying bags of money that had not been reported anywhere for HDZ not only were they not being prosecuted by the DORH but were sitting in this assembly. And it is, in fact, the greatest shame, or that is, everything about the misery and misery and the state of our judiciary and this one under the quotes of a high house that is getting lower and lower every day. And as for my colleague Bunjca's reaction, I'd like to say that she was in effect and the consequences of what he saw my guards doing, so when he saw that horror and horror in the Croatian Parliament, he reacted so much and I must say that at that point, the guard's violence to me gave way to me. Thank you. [[Intruder: Time's up, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128955	Comrade Glasnović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128956	Dear colleague Pernar, I agree with some parts of your exposure, let's say the presentation of a knight of Swedish tables that are harder, of course, can come to vomit, but nothing you've replaced that we've been here longer every day we're talking about who's going to remember it. There are some heads here I call them stone butts, so there was one in the Central Committee there every day, and no one will remember anything we said, every day, it was one there at the stadium, never missed any of this session, never said anything. I'm in a total media blockade. Why am I in total media blockade, that I can't come to these media like a pork chop at Jewish weddings, you're there every day, I'm not, here. Justice, what kind of justice I've been in every police department from Blackmerac to Bregana translated our militia, why, here's the answer to that, my phones are tapped, and today I've been in Canberra in fact, I've seen there live skype getting married when we get rid of them we'll have a state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128957	Time's up. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128958	Mr. Glasnović, I understand your indignation, and I must say I agree with you. However, I urge you to stand up to a particularly right wing of the Marriage which, unfortunately, for a long time may have been unwittingly supported. I call upon you to be a combat opposition and not only to fight those picturesquely spoken stone asses... but also to those stone butts sitting on the other side of this high house. Thank you. [[Intruder Glasnović: I would just say, I did not make a difference.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128959	Comrade Glasnović, please sit down first. I didn't give you my word. Wait a minute, what's the matter? [[Intruder Glasnovic: But I am the victim of black propaganda.]] You want a breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[Invader Glasnović: Good.]] Here you go. [[Invader Glasnović: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128960	Most of all, that's not true. I, that's true when you speak, when you tell the truth about Croatia it's... And that's the problem. [[You don't understand.]] [[President: Which article is injured?]] It's an injury there. [[What are you talking about?]] It's an insult to me as a man because I'm a victim of UDBA and my family, there sits head and left and right wing... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128961	Comrade Glasnović, please sit down. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. The debates you're having are below the level I consider appropriate to the Parliament, so I invite you to think about what you're saying and how you're saying. Now it's Comrade Ostojić's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128962	My colleague Pernar, as funny as this performance is, I'm going to be talking about something very serious, which means the Assembly Guard was acting against the law. In fact, it is that no law has resolved the application of coercion funds. That means they can do it. Therefore, my suggestion to you is as a parliamentary representative and to all of us to finally regulate it. Namely, the chairman of the session brings to the situation a parliamentary guard who is not guilty that only by an internal act it has been decided that the use of the means of coercion to any parliamentary representative. Report illegally to the DORH.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128963	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128964	Your Honor, if I understand it means the physical action of the Assembly Guard towards me is not regulated by any law or regulation, which means that their conduct was outside the law and outside the framework, and that is something that should also be discussed with an emphasis on those who decide to apply such an institute. That's important information, and don't think that you'll be able to suppress us until the end of the day. Your time is passing, new generations are coming and the consciousness of the Croatian people is changing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128965	Let's explain to our colleagues, Stojić and his colleagues Pernar. So we have a Parliament Rules of Procedure that has the power of law. Article 241 states: “If, even after giving the measure referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article, the chairperson does not depart from the session, he will interrupt the session and order that the representative be removed from the sitting room. In that case, the chairman may ask the Parliament's guard to remove the representative from the hall." Therefore, the procedure was done in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Now it's the individual debate of my colleague Maras. Here you go. Prior to that, the violation of the Rules of Procedure of his colleague Ostojić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128966	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, you are wrong as far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, Article 248 is concerned. But the most important thing is that the Rules of Procedure cannot regulate the use of coercion funds. He can get away from the session and everything. You put people in a situation where they do it to break the law. That's the problem. It needs to be settled and passed a law on it. It is not possible to work in this way, nor can the security service, nor is there any other way to regulate their actions, and you are putting them in trouble so that they can be held accountable for this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128967	Thank you very much. That's not true, but never mind that's your opinion. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128968	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, today two new representatives from the HDZ are coming to our benches, but I will pay a little attention to whoever's leaving our benches and on that side when we talk about the Mandate-Immunity Commission report, it's impossible not to notice that what we've been saying for months, even more than half a year, happened at the end. The HDZ in its political trade in petty co-operation has finally admitted to the political government in two key institutions. One of these institutions is a state inspectorate. In order for Mr. Plenkovic to settle his colleague Mikulić from the City of Zagreb, we had to pass the Law in the Croatian Parliament and make a mastodont with several thousand inspectors so that Mr. Mikulić would move into a newly rented building in the centre of the City of Zagreb, thousands of squares that would be paid by taxpayers in order to have grand courts and thousands of employees, and tomorrow he could do a repression against whoever HDZ policy he resents. So on that side, we see that what we've been saying is true all along. HDZ creates political institutions, institutions of repression that want to put the entire Republic of Croatia under its boot, and this is an example of Mr Mikulic, who in the trade between Bandic, Plenkovic and himself has given himself a post. Mr. Prgomet will be removed from the town hall to be the speaker of the Assembly, and Mr. Bandic will be released from all possible controls, controls and other things in exchange for the stability of the political majority in the Croatian Parliament. A shameful decision, a shameful decision by the HDZ government to put in a politician who has not proved himself capable of leading it at all, would be more appropriate if he had won the post of assistant or state secretary at the Ministry of Trade Economy. In this, he was very successful when he traded in the town hall with Bandic. In this, HDZ is very successful when trading with Bandic at the level of the Republic of Croatia. The second institution that we also have to talk about here is a representative of Kustic, who became Plenkovic's deputy in the Croatian Football Federation. So he's de facto president of the Croatian Football Federation, and it's not our celebrated representative, Davor Shuker. So today we are aware that the new president of the Croatian Football Federation of HDZ Kustic, who together with the vast majority of HDZ in the board of directors of the alliance, continues to privatise sport, this house, but not only that, but also hundreds of millions of budget kunas that are likely to be spent on the national alliance. So Kustic doesn't go from HS to HNS because of what he's really in love with football. He goes there because a new national stadium is to be built and to control how 400, 500 million kuna will be spent and who will do the job. Once again, the mayor of Bandic, who wants to spend the money of our citizens in the City of Zagreb on this new stadium and I am here telling him not to spend a single kuna, to arrange a stadium in Maksimir, to finally make it right in Maksimirska road, which is a historic place for all Zagreb and Zagreb women, and then to think about certain other things. On that side of the two key institutions, one repressive, means the inspectorate is the main one called HDZ's politician, to shut down craftsmen tomorrow, to work on the political order he will control, who he will not control, and when you look at how much that man longed for that place, then you can think about what he's going to do there and what he's going to do. HDZ doesn't get in front of anything. HDZ returns the Republic of Croatia, not 5, not 10, not 15, but 20 and more years ago, has created a state and creates a state where it will only matter that you are a member of the party, that you are a member of the HDZ and then you are allowed everything. If you're not, if you're not doing what they're supposed to do, then you're exposed to every possible persecution and you have to stand up to it. Gentlemen of the HDZ, you said you were against sports politics, how come Mr. Kustic who is btw? Yesterday he ran the HDZ list in Lika-Senj County, a man ran down to be the president of the county assembly, said he would develop Lika, that he would make of like Croatia's Las Vegas or something, eventually departing from politics a few weeks after the election. Isn't that a con of choice? Isn't that a voter lie? Gentlemen of the HDZ, tell me, why did you lie to Lichanka and Licana when you offered Kustic the first on the list in that county, when a man is more formal than today and does not deal with politics? Why did you lie to the voters? Why did you bring down the Ministers? He was also our President Jandrokovic, all of whom were downstairs, promising hills and valleys, will do nothing, of course, because everything is about simple and unique interest, and this is about taking control of hundreds of millions of kunas in the Croatian Football Federation. It's enough to subdue the state to yourself, you can't do it, it's not the Republic of Croatia's ownership of HDZ, not this Sanader mentality that's obviously so hard to leave behind, don't continue to apply it. You think people are stupid, that they don't understand that HDZ no matter what Sanader ended up in prison, HDZ president and prime minister, that they don't see that HDZ is still working in the same way, that HDZ continues to force its staff, that HDZ is a party of dangerous intentions for the Republic of Croatia because of what it doesn't want to change its mentality and everything that it should do to make the Republic of Croatia a modern European country, that we don't have politicians and inspectors, that we don't have politicians in sport, that it doesn't steal through the law legally giving out who knows how many millions of kunas for who knows what jobs, that we don't have Agrokor who today is in the same situation as it was two years ago, except that we're more expensive, only that you chose who will own it, only what you paid consultants over a billion and per kuna, that we don't have ministers sitting on Croatian football teams, that we don't have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to have to go to have to pay the money, so many more money, and the money, so we't know that they know that they't know that they'll know that they't know that they'll know that they've got a lot of money. The Republic of Croatia is not owned by HDZ. The Republic of Croatia is owned by Croatian citizens and citizens who live in it, who love the Republic of Croatia, who pay taxes here, who work to make the Republic of Croatia a better society. You are bringing us back to the moves like Mikulic's, moves like Kustic's, we no longer want politics to determine who will be president of the Croatian Football Federation, that the Croatian football team for which we all love. Leave the Republic of Croatia gentlemen of the HDZ alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128969	We've got five replicas, first mate Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128970	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Maras, counterpart Mikulić is far more competent for the post of chief state inspector than you who were minister of entrepreneurship and crafts only because you had a red SDP card he gave you with the trust of Zoran Milanovic. I am here to criticise SDP President Davor Bernardic for putting him in a very low place, so now he must present himself as Agent 007, Fred added a name, I suggest that Gordan Maras 007, it may be a better choice, but in fact a greater criticism of his colleague Bernardic is that he is actually the only serious candidate for the mayor of Zagreb sent to Brussels. We won't have a more serious candidate for mayor than fellow Maras, here I am asking you to reconsider, you haven't submitted the list.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128971	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128972	Thank you very much. Cover your vote, Mr. Celic, thank you for your support, although I will not need your support because HDZ in the city of Zagreb is nothing. In these European elections, you will see that your list will receive fewer votes than the SDP in the city of Zagreb. So I'm not interested in running for second place in the city of Zagreb, I want a victory for the SDP and the SDP will have its mayor because your pal Bandic has done his part and on the other hand as much as he's got you, you'll be in power because HDZ in the city of Zagreb will neither have nor have it since '97. Sir, when you imposed, you disgracedly played the will of Zagreb, your mayor. In 22 years you will count Mr. Celic, I don't think you will, you may also welcome your pension when HDZ will compete in the city of Zagreb and you obviously have to take orders every time you hear Mikulić, you have to pick up, you don't have to be the only Mikulić... So there are other colleagues from the city of Zagreb who could contact and defend their president. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128973	Comrade Maras, sit down. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128974	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Maras, you spoke of two parliamentary deputies leaving the Parliament for a very important function. One of them is Mr. Mikulić and his departure to the State Inspectorate shows all the character of Plenkovic's government, which is in many ways identical to that of Sanader, which is a continuous occupation of institutions. However, perhaps more than Mr. Mikulic's departure at the head of the inspectorate, Mr. Kustic's departure to a very important new position shows that Mr. Plenkovic is no different from Mr. Sanader. You mentioned the stadium but what you missed was the Commission for the construction of that stadium. Do you know, do the MPs in this House know who Milan Bandic put in that commission? Of course, the smartest of all, himself, after that Mr. Kustic, who at that time was a representative in the Croatian Parliament and now the highlight of everything, Mr. Vrbanovic, was illegally condemned in the corruption affair of Mr. Mamić, that is HDZ, that is Mr. Bandić, and that is to be fought against, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128975	Thank you, Comrade Grbin. I ask you all to stick to the minutes and give the main messages within 2 minutes or one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128976	Thank you very much. Mr. coat of arms, you said the essence of everything. Croatians are now trying to be ruled by interesting lobbys, HDZ and those who are intransparently spending public money in local communities and this is a real picture of Croatia. You made one small mistake, not Mr. Bandic, Mr. Kustic and the third in the car, Mr. Vrbanovic. The third in the circuit is the one who ruled Croatian football and who fled to BiH, which apparently helped HDZ unceasingly up to a few years ago in campaigns by hanging out with the president of the Republic of Croatia, that is Mr. Mamic. It's company. HDZ, Mamic and Bandic. So if Croatian citizens think they can't do better, let them still vote for Mamic, Bandic and HDZ. If they think they can do better, let them change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128977	Comrade Pernar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128978	Dear Representative Maras, in your speech you touched Eve Sanader and this occasion I would like to release one of his words that I think are current today, listen to them. .../The speaker played a tape from his cell phone./... Which will say that today and the HDZ gentlemen are probably saying that there are no thieves in HDZ, I'm sure. I hear it in my ears, so did Ivo Sanader, but he got a round of applause then on this statement, and now they're not clapping, now they're not clapping and if Ivo Sanader had told them that a few years ago, they'd all be in ecstasy and there's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128979	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128980	Thank you very much. Mr. Pernar, you're right and you played that tone, I recognized Mr. Sanader's voice, but I also recognized Mr. Djakic's applause, Mr. Reiner, Mr. Bačić and Mr. Jandrokovic. So I have quite a hearing, and I recognize those hands clapping, so on that side in this clap at the end, let's hear it one more time, let's hear them clap their HDZ colleagues, clapping their colleagues. And President Eve Sanader. [[I'm asking you to stick to the rules.]] So it didn't...../The speaker played the tape from his cell phone. No, we don't have to sing [[Break president: colleague Pernar...]] This is a fact, give me back my time. [[I'm just asking you a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128981	So I'll let you, just a little bit, we'll be back, I'll let you say whatever you want but don't perform the circus. Yesterday, that circus ended with the death threats of your colleague to the council guard, and you threatened to die. It's never happened here before. And don't do that now, circus, don't manipulate, don't try to overshadow it now with your exhibition. I'm warning you, it's not right and it's not fair. No, no, no. Time stopped four seconds before the end. [[Intruder Maras: Please return time, there are 4 seconds left only.]] [[And at that time Pernar came down and...]] [[I'll give you five seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128982	Well, I apologize, I just wanted to say what was very important that HDZ did evil in its history to the Croatian people, unfortunately... that it hasn't changed and that, unfortunately, through these recent situations, it still doesn't change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The President's intrusion: Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128983	Comrade Stazic, it's your turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128984	counterpart Maras, small children, birds on the branch, fish in the water know why Mikulić was appointed chief inspector. Its first and basic tasks will be that the inspection will never but never come to any HDZ so that they can steal as they have been used all these years and come to anyone who is a member, any craftsman, entrepreneur, who is a member of another party or enough not to be a member of the HDZ to intimidate them and to persecute them. The result of such HDZ policy is that young and smart people are leaving Croatia, left to be scrawny, those who vote for HDZ. That's why their support and growth took over everything, the judiciary, football, public enterprises, everything they could do. and bring totalitarianism into this country. [[Intruder: Time out fellow Stazic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128985	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Comrade Cellic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128986	Well, Article 238 was injured, so my colleague Stazic here repeatedly holds some political manifesto, political production, a man talks about some morale, I don't know why you didn't object while the SDP was in power, but please explain once already how much it cost a vacation in Brijuni.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128987	It wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, it was a replica, so I have to give you a heads-up. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128988	Thank you very much, colleague Stazić. I think you've already sketched that this institution will be politically operated by the State Inspectorate, you see that the man, Mr. Mikulić, is all live in that he can't wait to start at a low start, has already announced certain actions and you said well. Little kids already know that, birds on the branch, only it doesn't end up with swearing in their pockets. And that people have to pay fines, those who are not at the will of the HDZ, and that they do not have to and do not close small trades because they had a kuna, two more traffic, and that those who go through big mud without any punishment just because they're close to the ruling party. Never in the history of the Republic of Croatia has the inspectorate been politically colored like this, never, ever, which is why you HDZ gentlemen do it, only because you control the situation and you guess those who are close to you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128989	Now it's the last line, dear colleague Bacic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128990	I thank Mr. President, fellow Maras tasks Mr. Mikulic was doing until yesterday while the SDP ministers were in power. No new job to Mr. Mikulić is imposed. In this way, you are imputing and trying to demonstrate Mr Mikulic, I presume from the experience that you, as ministers in whose jurisdiction the inspections were carrying out. So what I assume you were doing would now impute you to a future chief state inspector. And I thank you for this advance of these 10 minutes on behalf of HDZ, because indeed citizens in this stand-up who have been below each level will recognize the difference between HDZ and SDP. And that's what they recognize twice a month, our public-change studies indicate where HDZ is, where the SDP is. And you will see Mr Maras in the European Parliament elections in a month and a half, two days. Who's HDZ and who's SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128991	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128992	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic, don't worry about the SDP, and don't think that Croatian citizens because you have 10% more support think that HDZ is good at running the state and running the government and that the situation in Croatia is great. 75% of Croatian citizens think you're doing a catastrophic job and that you don't deserve a passing grade. As far as the inspectorates are concerned, there's one Mr. Bacic who's in 20 places of inspection, and one thing is when power is concentrated in the hands of a politically-set man who's only going there for that. So why would a man leave the office of president of the assembly, not because he is a state inspector's seat more honorable than that function? It is the second parliament in Croatia. He's not going there because of honor. He knows why he's going there. Unfortunately, he's going there to conduct political HDZ. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128993	Thank you, Comrade Maras. Let's go with the next debate. It's a respected colleague, Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128994	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry that you're not here as long as you were a half an hour ago. I was just glad to be able to bring some thought out because today is about noon, Fridays it's gonna be this far more fuller assembly than it is. I felt the need to talk about this, this point and the problem because what is happening now is leaving the assembly, the replacement of the mandate is about the corruption of the political system in Croatia, and it says that a long time ago a clientelistic political system was created. A key question arises what is the purpose of the work of a parliamentary representative here? So someone competed in the election, campaigned, explained to the citizens what they were going to do, do, and now after some time simply, half the term goes to some executive function and goes where it suits him most. So let's be specific because this is where we're asked to stick to the agenda. So let's say Mr. Kustic our colleague is still not officially resolved here today, why he goes to, say, the Croatian Football Federation, why exactly the Croatian Football Federation, why he didn't go in to say in what he would say in some bowling alliance, a table tennis alliance, but right into the Croatian Football Federation where there's a lot of money, there's a lot of money. There are problems, but there's market for the best of our players, so these are the young people we're proud of, we're proud, but it's good to be next to them when these transfers are made there's a large amount of money. So there's millions, there's money. So, you see he's gone, leaving this honorable place he's fought for, which is why the people chose him especially in the field like and now suddenly he doesn't care about the national problems he's chosen for, and now he goes to an executive function for only his known reasons. Why didn't he go to some board of directors of the NK Rudes or, say, Inter from Zapresic? Some football clubs that have problems for a man to help because it certainly is, so there is a wide circle of acquaintances, can be animated, but you see it is not, he wants to join the Croatian Football Federation. Our colleague Mikulić, he goes to the State Inspectorate, he is also in the Assembly, the President of the City Assembly and so on, a lot of functions he has, but now at the State Inspectorate which is now, all these inspectorates under one hat, in the new space, the state must pay for that new space and not the state, but we will pay for it. You see, this is simply incompatible. When we change Croatia in the next government after the next elections take part in the responsibility of leading the institutions of this country, we will immediately change the statutes of this State Inspectorate and ban politicians, not to be presidents, but to even come to any post. So look, please, what connects these two of our two fellow MPs? So they were selected without, there is no public competition to watch out, so at least let's say fellow Mikulić, that a competition has been opened for the State Inspectorate for the President, the key man, and in the media, so that 50, 100 people, well at least ten people, but there is no one, so he sets up, see why I called to discuss, do you want to continue this Croatia? So your only dilemma is whether you want this kind of Croatia that leads us to decay, clientelism, corruption or you want to clear up with it. I invite you to the next election, massaly step out to end this dilemma once, to simply sweep off a political scene such a political clientelism. Why, for example, did my colleague Mikulić not go to the Oil Shipyard for example? That's right now, there's a lot of big problems. , there were major procurement problems, so if there's somewhere to do the inspection, it's down there, so let's say he's been working for a year, so maybe even, maybe even then a man would say so maybe he could be here, so no one's going where the problems are, not even in 3. May, neither to the Uljannik, anywhere, but I repeat, the biggest problem is Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, and your colleagues and colleagues here sitting, which is that there are no public tenders to such important services, but be careful from here to the Government's decision, someone from the government, surely prime minister, are being transferred by parliamentary representatives to go to executive functions. [[He's capable.]] That's why I answered the discussion to say that this political system is rotten, rotten, because the government's superior to the Parliament you see, it must be the maid of us here, we've been chosen by citizens, but no, now it's the other way around. The Prime Minister practically became Pharaoh. It is extremely harmful for Croatia and that is why it hurts the most young people, when they see it disgusted them, they say literally these words to us when we see that people, as they come to the highest places of office, cannot be hired without, without any connection with the ruling party as a maid or clean the premises of any lady. So, on behalf of the party, we change Croatia, please stop this process, to have these parliamentary deputies talk to them, to show them one more time, so they may not be aware of what it means to be a parliamentary representative, to raise awareness of them, you from the ruling coalition, from HDZ, because both HDZs, that people stay here in the Parliament, to fight for the people from where they came from, who chose them. Can't do that, it'll be a loss here if, and simply they go to executive functions, and if they're already going, if they won't stay here, offer them to go rescue the Oilman, 3. May, and if they want to go right to football, let them save Rudesh, Inker from Zapresic, and so on, and so on. So how many members of the HDZ Parliament have gone? Has anyone been doing statistics between us? Well, that's inadmissible to my people, so this is one passing institution where people place themselves when the time comes to some political function, and really little, I agree with this, let's say, the place of chief inspector in this State Inspectorate, so it's an extremely powerful man, and now you can imagine hypothetically what can happen and what orders can hypothetically come from the government, from the ruling structure of the party, whether it will be selectively sending inspections or not, so we change Croatia, so we think that this is unhealthy, that this is a plague, that it's dangerous, we don't want such a Croatia anymore. In inspection of these things, no one can come from politics, they have to come to a public competition, and that's the only thing, the only thing. And to conclude, respected citizens, you who are following us and watching, you have only one dilemma, only one question, will you continue to support when you go to the elections, will you continue to support this disaster for Croatia, or will you be supported by new people, new parties, experts, more honest people to finally provide for our children, open the door to the future, and those who have left will have the good part to come back. We can't do this anymore, this is a general collapse, the people and the state are abandoned, and I call on all those forces, all the individuals and parties that didn't get dirty in Croatia's leadership to unite, unite and finally mess up what should have been messed up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128995	We have six replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Lovrinovic and this move with the State Inspectorate is part of the great efforts of the ruling general depolitisation of society outside the policy sphere. So they depolitized the State Inspectorate, so they depolitized the Croatian Football Federation. So a HDZ member said, "We have depolitized Croatia's fire community," a member of the HDZ who is at the head of the community said. Our colleague Sanader. So, I don't think you get the point of this whole thing, and that's general depoliticalism that they're doing, I absolutely welcome it. At the head of an important institution such as the Inspectorate will find a man who has nothing to do with politics, who you will agree can be absolutely always objective and impartial and who will do his job accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128997	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128998	Thank you very much, dear colleague Hajdukovic. You've made a little ironic comment, but I agree. So general depolitisation and this contribution of HDZ to general depolitisation. But you know what? I think Plenkovic has the next policy because he has this wing that's already nested before and it can't function differently. He agreed to act like that, and he's in love with them because they've obviously come into politics just because they're somewhere. What kind of a Parliament, what kind of coppers, what kind of general interest is that the general interest is something that we have to be here for. Is that how it's supposed to be? And here I find the general interest difficult, I don't see it, or rather I don't see it. And what Plenkovic as the man who came, his whole life has been a diplomat since he started working, should be brought here by something from Europe. Right? And you see he's developing all over political clientism. Here, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u128999	The next is the replica of the respected representative, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129000	As with the State Inspectorate, it is clear why this second representative Kustic is going to the Croatian Football Federation. Well, because there's a lot of money, and along the way, it's a crime scene. You see, Mamic here was a national hero, a regular guest at the President of the Republic, paying her birthdays, and then when he was legally convicted for crime, he ran to Bosnia because he loves his beloved Croatian people so much and his beloved Croatian homeland that he fled from her justice. But he's not the only one. It's typical of many here whose patriotic heart is so big that they don't need one state. They must have even two to place her in such a generous heart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129001	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129002	Thank you, Your Honor. A colleague of Lovrinovic's, and now I'm going to give you one real irony we've had this week. Namely, this week's Water Act if you know three laws are water. One of the Water Act states: “The Water Services Council should be formed” and now those who can satisfy the competition and enter the competition writes: “It cannot be a member of any political party.” And now look at that irony. We have a Water Services Council that doesn't serve anything honestly. There can't be a single member of a political party, and then we have a top state inspector who's not that important here, can be a member of some political party. I'm saying you're right in this whole section that you're talking about we want to depolitize Croatia and then we can say – here, we depolitized the Water Services Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129003	Dear Representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129004	Thank you. Dear colleague Prelec, what's interesting about this? So we were thinking about what we'd call the party a little longer, but we called it Change Croatia. It's activist, so why? Because every step of the way, you see that you have to change something. Now, what you're saying in this water management council can't be anyone from politics, but the chief state inspector that hundreds of thousands of people have under him has to be. So they know where to go, you understand. It's not that crucial here, it doesn't matter. So, what do I want to conclude on this? That's why I call on you to depose this kind of political system for the Parliament to be a central place, to have the government as Parliament's maid and to run the policies that the people mean to represent, and that we advocate here. Now it's completely the other way around and it's inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129005	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Cellic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129006	Dear colleague Lovrinović, you are questioning, you have the right to this competence and to call the arrest of a man who has been assistant chief state inspector for 8 years, a man who is a doctor of technical science and you see no reason, no competence for him to act as chief state inspector. You're very popular about earrings, and I understand that. I'm asking you here, so tell the public if it's possible for you to become governor of the Croatian National Bank tomorrow, or is the exclusive criterion of being a parliamentary representative and as such you can't compete for any function? The same analogous could not be the finance minister, nor the police minister, nor the defence minister if we talk about depolitisation by neglecting the basic postulates of democracy? The one who's got the power to appoint certain people, and the chief state inspector doesn't go into inspection. He's just a coordinator.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129007	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129008	Dear counterpart Celic, if it were done in the rights of two, three weeks of government formation, I would understand that because then a system is formed, executive authority and everything else. But after two years, that's amazing. But a colleague of the Cell, except for Dr. Mikulić and Dr. Bandića, Dr. Mikulića pardon, there are other doctors of technical sciences who can compete for this function. But you see, you don't mention public tenders. It's not there. So it's just a decision, the appointment you'll be there. Why? Because you want to cover everything from deciding which cleaning lady can be hired somewhere, right up to the chief state inspector for this, for that. That's why your policy is a disaster for Croatia and that's why we need to get rid of it, and I call on the citizens to make mass elections because it's the only way we can defeat you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129009	The next replica of the respected representative, Vlaovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129010	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lovrinović is expected from the State Inspectorate and I want a lot of success in the work of Mr. Mikulić as chief coordinator as we have heard. However, we cannot escape that it is still a political appointment and that what has been announced to relieve craftsmen and entrepreneurs, that through the work of the State Inspectorate will go with education and prevention, and only then by punishing them. The suspicion remains because of this political appointment, there remains doubts that the toughness of the young will continue to be treated, and that, for example, the Uljaniks and Agrokor were not allowed to go or go there, so they did not write reports if they went. And it's logical that there's doubt, and I hope so, because it's sportingly hoped, that politics and the way the State Inspectorate will work will be in favour of the little one living, working and staying alive in the Republic, but hope here's the last one dying, and 300,000 people have moved out. I hope it doesn't work that way. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129011	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129012	Thank you, dear colleague, and this political system goes to its end, the negative selection has reached its limits, we see it everywhere, there are so many listeners, so many people are flimsy, so many air-conditioned, so many hand-lifters, that simply a man can't watch it anymore because he just feels bad. I repeat, young people are disgusted, I invite young people first of all, this is ours, your country, don't let them, go to elections that day, go to elections, do your job for your future, fight along with us, a couple of us can't reverse this situation here, but if you young people get out, we'll do the job quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129013	The last replicas of the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129014	Dear Representative Lovrinović, it is indeed dangerous to place all authority over all inspections in the hands of one man who is once again part of one party, because this party, defacto, is making an analogue concentration of all power through one figure. And in fact, I honestly doubt the impartiality of such a body against members of the HDZ and let's say when someone gets caught without someone, for example. driver's license, then says the prime minister, so it doesn't mean he doesn't know how to drive if he doesn't have a valid driver's license, so he might as well tell Mr. Mikulić about someone tomorrow, so it doesn't mean that things aren't right if some regulation isn't necessarily satisfied, there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129015	Now we'll end up on behalf of, and I'm sorry, I beg your pardon, the answer. It wasn't a question, so I didn't. [[Invader Lovrinović: Okay, thank you, Mr. Vice President...]] You got it, go ahead. [[It's all right, it's all right.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129016	So, so far, and this political system, you know how it works? On a sleeve move. Politicians now and now holding power, they'll be nobody and nothing tomorrow if someone doesn't call them on the phone and pull their sleeves to fix something and guess. So imagine how much Mr. Mikulic will call tomorrow, from Monday, he'll be the most powerful man in the country, you understand that, Mr. Vice President? Well, it's an incredible power and power concentrated in the hands of one man, so I invite you to depolitize such functions that are sensitive clientelistic, corruptive, Mr. Mikulić will surely be exposed to it, have seizures of that, difficultly, I wish him all the luck to resist it. So let's change that sleeve drag system and phone calls. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129017	Now we will speak finally on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA's Club of Representatives, the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129018	Dear fellow MPs and MPs, I see that this hall has already, unfortunately, been well emptied and that those who have sat here before have disappeared as soon as they have seen that the vote will not be as fast as they expected, and for this reason I am saddened to have to speak again in front of an empty HS. But what I think is the most important thing he would point out is that MPs should be given the freedom to speak because they have been elected here. If a representative is deprived of the right to speak freely, then he loses his function and is actually blocked by his mouth, and they are indirectly blocked by the mouth then and the ones who chose him. I repeat, it is the role of the MPs to represent their voters, he does not represent himself, except in rare cases, when MPs opt out of the policy represented by their voters and begin to represent a completely opposite policy, which unfortunately we have had the opportunity to see in this conference HS. I would especially like to stress for the sake of young people that they know that the fate of our country is in their hands and that the result of the election depends greatly on their going out to the elections, on their power of influence, or on the persuasion of their parents and other ancestors. And why is that? Because most elderly people aren't on social networks, they're not following what's going on in HS, everything they find out, they find out only by the mainstream media, and the mainstream media who's funding them? Do I finance them? The answer is no. Are they funded by you looking at me today? The answer is no again. And then the question arises who are those who finance the media and then you will see that a few advertisers actually buy media through ads and thus government over them, decide on their editorial policy and ultimately on the views that theirs, who are informed through them, will have. It is clear that the power of information, the one who owns information, or rather, the one who places information on people, influences people's opinion because people will take attitudes according to the information they receive. And for this reason, as much information as possible from other sources, as much monitoring of alternative media and as much action as possible on old people who are not on social networks to wake up from hypnosis because unfortunately half of all those who are over 65 years old. He won't vote, for example. to the Living Wall, rather than to vote for HDZ, and the reason is the only tool, or rather the means by which they are informed, or through which information is coming, and this mediator, or whoever, the newspaper, is constantly telling them that HDZ is a fair party, that the MPs who, for example, are going to change these MPs that are currently being discussed are both good and fair, that the only one is actually a bad and evil person in HDZ, Ivo Sanader, and that now, as to God, they're getting rid of it, and now they're clean as tears again, like a baby, etc. Unfortunately, however, many older people believe this, unaware of the harsh manipulation of those who control the media. So, the fight for freedom of the media and the fight for democracy, or for the protection of parliamentary deputies, to say what they think without fear of being expelled is an imperative without which democracy, and thus neither do I say broad freedom nor do there, and since the parliamentary representatives are rudely kicked out of this assembly, including me, I can only conclude the following, which is that there is no democracy in the EU, that all of their demagogue phrases that they told us at the time of entry were one of the simplest and most transparent lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129019	Next on behalf of the Club of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative Bulj will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129020	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, we are discussing the decision of the DIP that we are going to have to vote on, where we will all have to make a decision together that is essentially predetermined, I would here in advance and congratulate a new one, not yet, but newly named after this debate, the parliamentary representatives and I would tell all of us that we have been changing the Lex Mikulić law for days to be passed and this is a well-known thing and would not talk much about it. Mr Kustic would also not speak much of it, it is the usurpation of Croatian sports through political elites, it is also known in the Republic of Croatia. I wouldn't even talk about Eve Sanader, that's what I was talking about, here's my colleague Šipic, my colleague Bacic, those who know from that time that I was talking about Eve Sanader and what the consequences were for me at the time. He who is on the floor would not speak of it, and those who were with him would not pretend to know anything. I would talk here about freedom of speech, especially for you newly elected parliamentary representatives. I would like to say that we all here have been reduced to the right of freedom of speech by changing our Rules of Procedure, which we pointed to at a session when we were having a discussion in the night and the first time was the whole night, it was until then the longest session. We were deprived of the right to have breaks as they were in the previous Rules of Procedure together with HDZ and the SDP who voted. I could then talk about what my people chose me for, I could talk about how I had no medical services, pediatricians, doctors, other radiologists in my field of Dalmatian Zagora, like, the backdrops of Zadarski, Sibenik, Kninsko area, my Zagora, how we don't have the basic living conditions in this area, how they're forgotten by the traffic infrastructure, how they're filled with parents' station where they're crying for their country to go to third countries, I could talk and open those problems, we've cut it off. I came here before that debate with a band-aid on my mouth and I said this was the beginning of the abolition of freedom of speech, which, of course, the respected vice president and the president of HS have forced that we newly elected parliamentary representatives cannot open these important, life issues. The topics of workers who remained unsettled, workers of Dalmatia, workers of Dalmatia, all workers, Uljanik Shipyards and many other topics of importance for the lives of these areas, about harmful projects such as the Peruča thermal power plant, that we cannot open the pauses and that we Assembly representatives and this HS will not be the center of power to decide, but rather that we allow the prime minister of attack here of the Parliament's physical representatives, that Martina Dalic, former Deputy Prime Minister of the Government, for my performance, will not face me, that we have brought to the situation that guards, here people who do their work honorably, some of them are defenders, must come into conflict with the parliamentary representatives, that I, as a parliamentary representative, are not allowed to speak, where I also vice president HS wanted to throw out, he called for the guards, then fellow MPs were uniquely why the ministers had not been disfellowished by this law atHS. So they've made you respected newly elected MPs, they've made you a voting machine that will have to obediently raise your hand, and you won't be able to open the topics you promised your citizens. Not only that, they went one step further, they're article of Constitution No. 1. The right to a direct decision of the referendum, and HS supported them, most in HS. They abolished the right to referenda, they abolished 400,000 signatures by our citizens to plead the biggest problem, and that's the problem of electing MPs and being the people's representatives here and being the Parliament's center of power to decide. They went one step further. On HTV, they filed charges against their journalist politically, against their journalists. They went one step further, sent to the police on the mayor's request to see if they were journalists. We must fight for freedom of speech, and we must not be for our own areas and for what we have promised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129021	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ and will finally speak to the respected representative Suncana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129022	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Listening to the debates very unusual about replacing the parliamentary mandates of elected MPs on someone's lists, the MPs whom people have given confidence seem to me that here many of my colleagues and my predecessors who have spoken act as double personalities. Maybe a colleague of mine could say a lot more professionally about it. Some have acted as righteouss among the nations, and most of those who spoke before me are thrown mud and shovel into the Croatian democratic community. Well colleagues and colleagues, the Croatian Democratic Community has over 200 thousand members, valuable workers, teachers, cleaning women, people who do their jobs honestly. How can you not be ashamed? How can you not be ashamed of them in this way to address them? That's why I'm saying that you're a double personality, all of you who are hitting on HDZ mud. You can't characterize 200 thousand people with one person, and you consciously do that. However, however, the Croatian Democratic Community shows its strength and unity when it is most necessary that you admit it or not. That's how it's been since the '90s. As a university professor, you show your dose of lowness and incompetence countless times in the Croatian Assembly and now you get to me when I speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives. But let's talk about what I thought was going to be asked for breaks, which is the fact that the Croatian Parliament allowed someone to die yesterday. The colleagues who did this today are not in the Croatian Parliament. You haven't stopped to protect the people who are here with you for 24 hours or as long as it takes in your shifts, you haven't wondered what they think about their family, how they feel. When it comes to collecting political points, that's when you stop for the protection of workers. What do you think these people are? No one's talking about it. No, and we're not gonna twist the thesis because we're not all the same. But by twisting the thesis in this way, we forget about this terrible fact and we always justify ourselves, so there are worse parliaments than we are. That must not be our guideline. So you are not, and none of us are “the righteous one among the nations. ” We all call for the right to speak. So what else is done than spoken in the Croatian Assembly? Tonight or this morning by 1:30, now stop talking all morning and produce lies in front of the entire Croatian public watching you. So do not be silent, but speak. We're all talking. You have the right to answer that. You speak when you have no right to answer. We have brought the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that almost no one is sticking to. You challenge the MPs, you provoke them. No one's touching anyone. I'm just asking, why can you be one cheek like this and another cheek like that? What happened was dangerous intentions, there was a threat to someone's life, a threat to the death of a bully and a manipulator from the Living Wall, and I beg you, don't be like that. I believe you're not like that. Everybody turn around. Let's protect the people who work here with us on their fair business. Let's not let anyone humiliate them, and if we don't talk about it, that's exactly what we're gonna do. And once again I say, the Croatian Democratic Union is a strong party. There are a lot of us, and we are very different, but when the most difficult HDZ is together, so don't get muddled on the Croatian Democratic Community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129023	Thank you. We have two reports of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He's the first respected representative of Maras. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129024	Thank you very much. It is obvious that the Rules of Procedure in Article 238 has been injured. Mrs. Glavak insulted a whole series of MPs by calling them double personalities. You have not responded to this, although as a humanist, the doctor should react and warn her that she has committed a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And what I wanted to add, that Mrs. Glavak people see well. So it's not the members, it's the ones who clapped 10 years ago to Sanader, and today I'm clapping Plenkovic. It's not about 200,000 members, it's about... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129025	Comrade Maras, you've exceeded your time You've exceeded your time, colleague Maras. [[The raider Maras: about 100, 150 people clapping, clapping.]] I'm giving you a warning. [[Intruder Maras: Who clapped on Sanader.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129026	So they clapped Karamara./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129027	I'm giving you a second warning from my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129028	.... /Invader Maras: So they clapped now with Plenkovic./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129029	I'm taking your word from you by the end of the day. Please. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.]] The next violation of the Rules of Procedure was respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129030	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Commissioner Glavak has offended hardly all members of the HDZ here in the Parliament because she has called them double personalities. I know, we know that HDZ is no longer politically in 2019, but in 2011 as of yesterday and you will wear that Stigma. Get your strengths together to clean yourselves up. You have a great opportunity to do it now. But please, protect us from being called mentally unaccountable, and I personally advocate going to the European Parliament as soon as possible, there will be a larger sample to observe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129031	Your time is up, colleague Lovrinović. Of course, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. No one's here, and I haven't heard anyone here call himself a mental patient. A double personality is not a mental patient, and you abused the Rules of Procedure, so you get a warning. This one will now end in the name of the club speak the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129032	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, we learned something from today's debate, which can be summed up into one sentence, better Pernar listen 2 minutes a night than 2 hours a day. Because if he was released yesterday by the vice president to finish two minutes by the end, we wouldn't have these two hours today. So today he was completely out of the picture, so no one interrupted him, got no warning, no word taken. I would say that yesterday was a folklore event where Pernar wanted to take it out, and Vice President Brkic made it possible for him to do so. But maybe that's my opinion, I'm not saying I'm right, I'm not going to say that it was a deal, it was more spontaneous, your mutual sympathy is already obvious that it's just so, e. As far as the actions of the Assembly guard and the conduct of fellow Bunjca are concerned, so the least common denominator we can say that behavior is inappropriate, but whether there are elements for any other sanctioning of what he said to the Assembly guard is for other bodies to decide. What is unequivocal is that by means of a higher order act, it is better to prescribe the powers of the Assembly Watch, so the addition of this article to the Rules of Procedure, than only to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, because that there has been an injury or some serious consequences, obviously we will have to start and prepare for this, better to know the rules in advance. Thirdly, since we have conducted the whole debate counter-businessally, so past the topic completely, it is very clear that this should not be a practice, so the report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission concerning the replacement of MPs is a technical question where it is determined that the law is, whether it is respected or not. And a two-hour debate about it is totally unnecessary, we all know that. But as I've already said, instead of listening to 2 minutes at midnight, we've been listening for 2 hours around noon, it goes to the soul between the other and the president because he put the agenda together. So, if we had discussed this yesterday, it wouldn't have been like this. And I call on the Mandate-Immunity Commission's report on the replacement of MPs not to continue to be used this way. Obviously, we will need to adapt to the new circumstances in the assembly and to define better sanctions. So, colleagues from the Living Wall base their politics on taking them out of the assembly. And you're making them victims, what Mr. Pernar was saying yesterday, which is why he was taken from me, I have to admit that I personally liked it more or less, not the way, not the dilemma, but the whole thing that he packed up, there's not much to complain about the style in the rest and today when he talked most of us laughed and it was fun for us, that's what the president of the assembly said, but not to be longer. I hope that at some point we will return to the level of discussions that are appropriate for the Croatian Parliament, I believe that the amendments to the Rules of Procedure were good, regardless of what fellow Bulj has a different opinion, that in the Croatian Parliament we have enough instruments and opportunities, and even yesterday's debate was the result of the changes to the Rules of Procedure that we have asked otherwise would not have discussed, to state our opinion, but I propose two concrete things. First, it's to abolish the business order that you don't have to, that you have to stick to the subject in order to avoid this kind of thing, so let them talk about everything that we've done today, so every story is about whatever it is they want, and you didn't want the president and the president to stop it from repeating yesterday's incident. So, he won here, so to speak, today he spoke for two hours because he couldn't speak for two minutes yesterday, so let's cancel that provision and let him talk about what he wants, when he wants to just limit it all he wants, that's the first thing. And as in this debate, how in this debate, the collateral sacrifice became two MPs who ended the mandate and how popular it was today to appeal to the former Prime Minister to colleagues leaving the assembly and I will welcome them with a new Croatian greeting, dear fellow goodbyes and thanks for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129033	Comrade Bauk hardly agrees with much of what you have said, but at the same time when situations happen to take away the word of outsiders, then very often most of the opposition is solidarity with them and tells us who we are chairing to choke freedom of speech and that we are not correct. So, I think what you said is true, so sometimes we let it say something, and when we warn, then the MP returns to the topic in a few seconds, and then he goes back to what's not a topic, but it would be good if you really thought that the SDP Club of Representatives is not adequate, given the new ways in which part of the MPs behave, intentional provocations, obstructions, and even physical violence to sit down again, so let's see what are the provisions that should be changed so the council can function. We are prepared to do so, and we want it to be order in the assembly, we do not dispute anyone's right to speak, I think it was quite clear today, and also yesterday and there are very difficult accusations sometimes that cross the border, but we do not interrupt because of the spoken word, but there are really representatives who abuse the Rules of Procedure and use it for quite other purposes. But, well, here we go, and we're going to vote now. So, first, I am voting on the motion for a decision to start the stay of MP Andrija Mikulić's term of office and start acting as deputy representative of Ante Plazonic. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 91 for and 1 abstentions and 1 against decisions taken as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. I am now voting on the motion for a decision on the termination of MP Marijan Kustic's office and the start of acting as deputy representative Martin Baricevic, please vote. I find that most of the votes, 94 for and 1 vote against, a decision has been made as proposed by the Mandate Immunity Commission. After we made these decisions, we move on to the oath of MPs, MP Martin Baričević took an oath at the constitutive session of the 9th convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and will now be sworn by representative Ante Plazonić. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure have been found to read the text of the oath by the President of the Parliament, and subsequently calls on lawmakers. The appointed representative rises and says the word I arrive. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. "I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129034	I swear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129035	Congratulations to MP Antiplasonic... And I want success in carrying out these honorable and responsible representation duties. [[Applause.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs, we continue to work, it is up to: - Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in connection with the procurement of the squadron of multi-purpose fighter aircraft Carrier: 16 MPs in the Croatian Parliament submit 16 representatives in the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in conjunction with Article 145. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.03 HOURS]] Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The provisions of Articles 145 to 151 shall apply in the event of an Interpellation debate. Rules of Procedure. The government filed a report. Before I give my word to the applicant's representative to further explain the proposal, I can see that a colleague of Bunjac is coming forward, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129037	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected prime minister and minister with associates. On behalf of the Living Wall and the SNAGA Club, we are looking for a 10-minute break in order to consult again on this item of the agenda, primarily because of the general state of irresponsibility in the state that is the fiasco about the purchase of the plane is just the tip of the ice santa. In this regard, all public affairs are being conducted in an extremely non-transparent manner from the criminal restructuring of Agrokor through the secret group of Borg, through secret agreements and mutilation in connection with the privatisation of INA and oil and gas jobs, through the planned destruction of the shipyard until the formation of the parliamentary majority, and all with the aim of making Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and his systolic of semitrons and incompetences buy time, meet interest groups and prepare commissions in her pocket. We really need to ask ourselves today what the words responsibility, transparency, honesty, character and honor are in Croatia at all. It is common throughout the world to value someone’s work through results and it is only possible for us to do damage permanently and not suffer any consequences. Is there even a possibility in Croatia that someone might resign or be removed? We see that there is no reaction even when the whole public sees that something is wrong and that someone is not only failing but literally destroying the reputation of both nations and states. The vast majority of Croatian citizens feel not only ashamed as they look at the breaking up of all moral values in politics and society but also open contempt for all those who betray all the values that we have built our homeland.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129038	Thank you very much. Time's up, time's up Is anyone else picking up for a break? [[Intruder Bunjac: Thank you very much.]] If not, two things. First we will welcome the students and students of the High School for Road Transport from Zagreb who are with us, welcome. And the other thing is I'd like to ask my colleagues and colleagues to stay away from insulting, slandering and accusing others because that's not how we're going to conduct today's parliamentary debate. So I'm asking you not to use such words because they can turn against you and that wouldn't be nice or useful. Now I'm going to give a 10 minute break and we'll continue at 15 o'clock and 18 minutes. It's 15.08 o'clock. Dear MPs, honourable MPs, please take your seats so we can begin our work. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 15:15 A.M.]] As I said, the government has submitted a report, so we would now ask the proposing's representative to give an additional explanation of the proposal. On behalf of the promoter, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129040	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The acquisition of a squadron of multi-purpose combat planes for the Croatian Air Force was supposed to be the largest individual supply of military equipment from the Croatian Army's draft. And to the Croatian Air Force, it was necessary to secure operational capacity in the next few decades, instead, because of the stubbornness and incompetence of those or better to say the one who led the procedure turned into a fiasco. In the failed process of obtaining fighter aircraft, the Republic lost 2 years of supply, with the exception of time spent and considerable funds. Even though we don't know the extent of it, because the government is hiding it like a snake's foot. In addition to time and money, failed acquisitions have brought into question Croatian alliances, it questioned the level of co-operation reached with the United States, as the most important partner of the Republic of Croatia in defence issues. But we consider this particularly important and dangerous, perhaps most important in this whole story, is the fact that this procurement has shown that the Ministry of Defence, while at the head of politician Krsticevic, is not capable and has no knowledge necessary for the implementation of such extensive procurement. The Ministry of Defence, led by politician Krstičević, is not adequate, in an adequate and transparent way, to conduct the purchase that is expected of him, and as if ignorance and incompetence are not enough, whether I must remind you at all how illogical, contradictory, or even false information is in the past 2 years and especially in the last 2 months. came from the politicians of Mr Krstičević. The top of the defence ministry, headed by politician Mr Krsticevic, has been false all along about this procedure, firstly claiming that everything was agreed not only with Israel, but also with the United States. And then, after the documents that claim otherwise came out in public, the negating documents. As if all this wasn't enough, it seems to me that Mr. Krsticevic, I decided to release confidential documents in the media apparently hoping that we don't understand English, or what those documents say. Not only is this very likely, broken, the law, because it is classified documents, military secrets, but their release, politician, Mr Krsticevic, has experienced a spectacular failure. These documents, just once again confirmed what we know from the beginning, which is that the procurement, in the way that Mr Krsticevic led it, has been doomed from day one. For this reason, we MPs, interpreters, consider it necessary to open the debate in the Croatian Parliament, and consider it necessary for the final debate to adopt a series of conclusions in order to determine what went wrong in this process. But more than that, to ensure that in all future purchases, especially when it comes to the value of purchases that weighs several billion kunas, control mechanisms are created, which will prevent the fiasco, as we have experienced with Israeli F 16. However, the long-term plan for the development of the armed forces from 2014 has established that the lifespan, refurbished MiGs, is approximately until 2024 and that by the end of 2016 the need to make a decision and determine what opportunities and modals are best for the development of Croatian Air Force and the protection of airspace of the Republic of Croatia. The question is also raised very seriously, and what have all the modes been analysed, and what have these analyses shown? Did these analyses, for example cost-benefit analysis, show that just getting a squadron of multi-purpose combat planes for Croatia is the best. I think that's a question we didn't get an answer to, and I believe that as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, the entire Croatian public should have an answer to that question. But with or without analysis, in 2017, the Ministry of Defence asked several countries for an offer for planes, and that offer was answered by Greece and Israel, with F 16, U.S.A., with a new F16 and Sweden with flues. By mixing pears and apples, new and old, Croatia, as we know, chose from the planes offered, from Israel, and the government made a decision on the purchase of 12 Israeli F 16 types of barracks on 29 March 2018. By accepting this offer in the words of the diameter and Mr Krsticevic, they have ruled that the Israeli upgrades that separate the aircraft from the standard F 16. In order for things about the purchase of aircraft to be perfectly clear to the Croatian public, it is necessary to explain one important detail, regardless of what Croatian aircraft in question buys from Israel, they are not Israeli by their production, they are American, produced in the US, the US is the holder of technology, they are the holder of intellectual rights on that technology and not a single transfer of those planes to third countries, and in this case Croatia was the third country, cannot be implemented without the consent of the United States. Once again, as we know, the United States did not agree to transfer the aircraft with Israeli upgrades, and they agreed, and Croatia did not want to buy those aircraft without upgrades. At first glance, this is a simple story. At first sight, this is not about any Croatian problem at first sight here it is about a conflict that should not concern us between the United States and Israel on the other side of the problem in which Croatia happened to find itself and where Croatia turned out to be the victim. But respected colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. President, the respected Deputy Prime Minister, only at first sight, because today we know that the story was very different and shows serious signs of incompetence, ignorance and not transparency in the conduct that several billion kunas would not have to happen at any time, because today we know that, after the documents on the procedure for the purchase of aircraft have begun to be abundantly and regularly leaking to the media, the United States has already informed the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Government in September 2017 that, for example, there will be no support for the Israeli aircraft computer or radar warning recipient and that there is no final agreement for the sale of Israeli F 16 Croatia. At that level and the equipment in which Israel offered them and the politician, Mr Krsticevic, wanted to buy them. However, Mr Krsticevic's politician continued the procurement process of exactly those and precisely those Israeli planes we know today, we couldn't buy. Speaking of this document, it is the order to mention that it is the same although it is certainly a classified document by its nature and content, it ended up in the daily newspaper shortly after a significant statement by politicians Mr Krstičević, which I will now quote and Mr Krstičević said: There are a lot of documents in Croatia, we will see who was saying. And the papers suddenly ended up in the media. Of course, the story did not stop on only one document and only one warning from the United States government of the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has repeatedly been warned after September 2017 that the United States will not allow the transfer of aircraft with Israeli upgrades. We've learned that the problems have been alerted to the assistant secretary of defense, but there seems to be some problem with the Ministry of Defence reading e-mails, so it's probably not noticed. But the United States knew that one document might not be enough, so they continued to warn. We found out so much about the non-paper that was delivered to the government, the MORH, the President of the Republic's office, but no one responded to that either. After all, Mr. Kohorst's American ambassador was two weeks ago. shortly after the meeting the Prime Minister of the Republic said: There is a rule of selling to a third party that must include US approval, they were aware how the process works, I don't know if they knew all the details but the general information they had. The ambassador also reminded the prime minister that he had given information on the procedure for obtaining a license to sell the aircraft. So respected colleagues and colleagues, the government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, all knew everything. Despite such clear warnings, despite the view of the United States that the job in the form as imagined by politician Mr Krsticevic will not be able to be realised, despite the clear messages that we are wasting time, to lose money, reputation, Croatia has continued its attempts to obtain planes and the government, Prime Minister and Mr Krstičević have been pulling us all the time and pretending to be all right. They also pulled the nose and the public when it was clear because the Israeli prime minister had declared that the agreement to buy an Israeli plane had been reached long before March 2018 and that the contest was really just a farce. They pulled the nose of the media because they ignored all the questions they were asked and each time they gave false or incorrect information. They pulled the nose and representatives in the Croatian Parliament because when they came to the Defence Committee from the Croatian Parliament, they did not mention in any single word that with the purchase of aircraft and the transfer of Israeli technology to the Republic of Israel there are certain problems. The colleagues and colleagues of parliamentary deputies who were to conduct parliamentary oversight of this procurement, they didn't say a single word, look, there could be problems here and the whole time there was. What's worse, they pull us by our noses even today when it's all over, when it's all gone, when it's all leaked out into the public and when everyone's clear how much pride and arrogance the government of the Republic of Croatia has made access to this business. In a modern, orderly and democratic state that has accepted the concept of civilian control of the OS, in which the minister is aware that he is no longer a general warrior, yes, Mr Krstičic, you are today a politician, in which the minister must do his job for which he was paid, for which he was also elected by our representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the process of obtaining military equipment must be transparent. This wasn't it. The intransparentity of this business may well be the small detail, small for the whole picture, small for the purchase of several billion kunas. But watch out for colleagues and colleagues, even today when the purchase is over, even today when we have persistent, almost daily media insistence on answering questions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia refuses to reveal who was all working on the process of obtaining aircraft as well as the total amount of costs of the procedure. Although they initially claimed that this procedure had not generated any costs, in the meantime they had made little adjustments, and in time they began to publish some expenses related to travel to Israel. But not only did it travel on the Zagreb-Tel Aviv route, it traveled to the United States, it traveled to Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Korea. All these trips created certain costs, and in the hours of the people who were on the selection team the most favourable offer, there was no speech about it, and someone must have been working and doing the job the whole time. The result was sent as I said before, fiasco. And today, the government of the Republic of Croatia claims that everything was fine. The government of the Republic of Croatia, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, argues there were no mistakes. But now I ask you directly, Mr. Prime Minister, we still have a certain change. Today, not only will politician Mr. Krsticevic be in charge of the purchase of the aircraft. Today, as we know, as the Prime Minister told us about the purchase of the aircraft, an inter-resor commission will be in charge, several ministries will participate, the process will be wider and more transparent. Is that a message from Mr. Prime Minister that in this procedure so far, everything was not quite right? Is that your expression of mistrust with the politician your first associate, Mr Krstic? Dear colleagues and colleagues, from the very beginning of this procedure in public, incorrect information on the agreement of the third party, the United States. By the end of the procedure, it was not a clear question of price. I will remind you only of a report by the United States Congress showing a price 4 times lower than the one notified by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The information on the public proceedings did not come because the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia acted in a transparent manner, in a legal manner as it should not because the Ministry of Defence informed the public, representatives and the media, but because the documents were constantly leaking on all sides. And not just any documents, but documents concerning the purchase of weapons, aircraft intended for the defence of the Republic of Croatia of what is called a military secret, documents that should not end in public, but information about these documents would. Another criminal politician, Mr. Krsticevic. All these facts seriously suggest that the current form of surveillance over such large procurement of military equipment does not actually work. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in particular, I must apostrophy the fact that Mr Krsticevic is Minister of Defence and Deputy Prime Minister practically in an interview I quoted to you, announced that he will publish documents on the procurement process and that these documents have been spotlessly completed in the media. Dear colleagues and colleagues, is that normal? Is that acceptable behavior? Is that how we see a state of order and modernity? Personally, I don't think so, and I hope you do, that you agree with that opinion. I ask you, is it normal for the government and the Ministry of Defense to know since September 2017 that the United States will not give consent to the sale of Israeli F16s? But regardless of what they know and continue to stubbornly insist on buying these very planes and losing two years and questioning whether we will be able to do so by 2024, be able to equip Croatian Air Force with new aircraft and ensure that it continues to fulfil its mission and protect the airspace of the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues, is it normal for us to gamble in this way with the hard-earned reputation of the Republic of Croatia? And for what? Because of someone's fixed idea of personal interest or don't give God, and I hope that's not such a financial interest that individuals could have for a transaction like this. In short, this purchase was a fiasco. There's no other name, no other name for what happened. We lost two years. We didn't get any planes. We've wasted our time. That's why we've been looking for this debate to determine what went wrong and make sure these mistakes don't happen again. As a result, we insist as a minimum that all future procurements respect the Law on Defence and that, in accordance with Article 6(2) of that Law, require the prior consent of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. But we are also asking to consider the need to introduce stronger parliamentary supervision as set out in other countries over expensive procedures for the purchase of military equipment, as it is obvious that the current system does not represent enough brakes of amateurism and dilettanteism to which we have witnessed. Civilian oversight of the army isn't just a floscule. He has a clear purpose, but it's obvious that today doesn't work right for us, because we have instead of civilian control over military procurement of the armed forces. We have a minister who calls himself a general and a warrior today. We have a minister who replaces a professional approach to business with infantile behavior in the assembly and throwing children's toys around the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Republic of Croatia did not deserve this. The Republic of Croatia deserved responsible and professional behaviour. The Republic of Croatia has earned that those in the most important state functions are responsible for the billions they have been given to care and care. Unfortunately, Croatia has not received this, and therefore we ask, we insist on adopting the conclusions that we have proposed in this interpretation for those concerned with this procurement, as well as those concerning all future acquisitions of military equipment that the Republic of Croatia will implement. I will finish here, and the further discussion on behalf of the promoter will be given by my colleague Davor Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129041	The Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, Minister Krsticevic, with his associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, as Peja Grbin pointed out in his introduction, we warned in the SDP a long time ago about problems with the purchase of aircraft. It's clear to everyone. From the very beginning, it was a non-transparent process, and what is more clear today than anyone else. I will remind you only that Minister Krsticevic said that this act will improve Croatia's relations with America and will play a stronger role in NATO's alliance. I will therefore quote Minister Krstičević: "This is a historic day for Croatian Air Force. This is a decision to invest in the security of the Republic of Croatia. It is both affordable and best for us." But at the end of December 2018, problems begin. Croatian media transmitted the text of the US-based Axios portal, which was first published calling for Israeli officials to block the sale of Israeli aircraft to Croatia. Later in the US Congress Official Messenger, information appeared that the cost of the aircraft Israel sells to Croatia is 135 million dollars, not $500 million as it is the Croatian government. So three times the price of what the government claims. How's that? After this information, the real truth is yet to come out, and the public is being deceived to cover up responsibility and damage. However, the whole story is being told by US Ambassador to Croatia Robert Kohorst, who said: "I think the president spoke about the document that I gave the prime minister and which defines the procedure for obtaining the F16 sale permit." The same day immediately after US Ambassador Prime Minister Plenkovic said, "I have already said to that question that I did not see." This statement, Plenkovic, in fact, accused the US ambassador of lying. And the real truth is that it is Prime Minister Plenkovic who lies and continues to lie about it. It is clear that the warning paper existed, it is clear that the Prime Minister and the president of the state and the defence minister were familiar with the terms of the sale, and they lied that they were not. I also have a question for the president of the state, Mrs. Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. Madam President, was your representative, the representative of your office, at the opening of an offer for planes, if you claim to know nothing, I wonder what he was doing there and why you sent him? It is more than clear that they were doing so clearly consciously and with intent, they knew that under conditions that the Americans had given difficult or could in no way come to the realization of a purchase contract with the Israelites. Since there has been no such realization, I ask you, Prime Minister, in front of everyone. First, how will this affect our rating and NATO status? Secondly, will this have consequences for good relations between Croatia and America? Third, I ask you further, if you knew everything, and you knew why you lied, why did you lie? Why, despite the warning you insisted on buying these very planes, you're not listening to me, it doesn't matter to you? Are you aware that you have compromised the country's international reputation and defence capacity with this act? We can only speculate why you decided to buy these very planes regardless of all the facts and the real reasons. Perhaps one of the reasons is that the job of maintaining and serviceing these same aircraft was to be obtained by former company of Minister Krsticevic. I ask, therefore, also Minister Krstičević, did your former company register the activities of maintaining and serviceing the aircraft and with what intention did it, Mr. Minister? It is alarming and worrying that this is how the US ambassador warns about the facts, it rarely happens, and most often in countries that are far below Croatia by democratic standards, as Croatia is still a full member of the EU and NATO pact. Croatia has lost its time, money, hard-earned international reputation and has compromised its defence capacity. This government and the resolute minister have deceived the public, but they have also deceived the Defence Committee, so no warning paper has even arrived at the Defence Committee. And those who wasted both time and assembly and the Defence Committee and Croatian citizens and exposed Croatia to international debauchery can no longer do this job. By staying in that position every day, they are increasingly jeopardizing the safety of our citizens. Now it is clear to everyone that this government is not capable, nor will it be able to conduct the purchase of fighter aircraft. What's going to happen in Croatia, I wonder if someone's answering what? One affair, another affair, the third day every day, some affair, out of an affair in an affair. How long does it take the patience of Croatian citizens before they rebel against it? Are you even aware of what you're doing? Mr. Plenkovic, the other day you said you were sending your Minister Krstičević an entire government to help with the purchase of the plane. As much as you trust your minister and his ability to do the job. I have some advice for you, maybe you should listen to me. Isn't it easier and easier to replace the Minister of Defence Krstičević than to humiliate him like this? Don't do this to him, if for nothing else, then because of his dignity but also out of respect for the Croatian warrior, don't humiliate him. And why are you harassing other members of the government, i.e. A minister to do business that isn't their job. So much for you and your ability to run the country. But one of the most important issues today is that today we need to start a question, not funny, the HDZ gentlemen who is and why he's been putting into the media secret and classified documents related to defence and national security, it hasn't happened in 27 years since the Homeland War. Although the Military Intelligence Agency has not yet provided answers to the question of who was dealing the documents, why haven't they given an answer, if they're hiding anything, are they protecting anyone? I also have a question for you, Minister Krstičević. Do you know if you, have any information perhaps you, has anyone from your ministry been dealing classified documents, which is a crime and thus directly endangering national security? In the end, let me quote Brigadier Ivan Selak, retired military pilot, one of the best and most famous Croatian airmen, the hero of the Homeland War: "When it comes to serious procurement, and I hope this should have been a serious procurement, although I no longer trust the expert team, then it does not work that way. This expert team played the game, lost it, and the one who loses the game is leaving the World Cup. So change the team, and let others play." End quote. And finally, for the first time since the Homeland War, our country's defence capabilities have been questioned by the incompetence of this government. In view of the whole truth, all the facts presented, given the amount of lies, affairs, inability, inadequacy, and since this HS no longer reflects citizens' will at all because of unmarked political corruption in the Republic of Croatia in the last 27 years, as well as because citizens no longer believe in the institutions of our country, the only thing that would be fair and fair are early elections. The sooner you realize that, the better for the citizens, if you care about those citizens at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129042	We have, therefore, come to the end of the proposal's opening statement. We have 12 replicas for a colleague of the coat of arms and 11 replicas for a colleague of Bernardic's, so let's go in turn, first is a colleague of Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129043	The Honorable President, an old Latin, I don't know exactly in Latin, but he says "the empty bowl rings the most." These days on HRT was an interview by an American ambassador who said that the Republic of Croatia was not guilty at this stage of buying the plane, that was the first part. The second proverb goes from the time when our moments were still flying, and she says "who about what, the soldier on the shortfall, and the ones on honesty." When we remember one of the ministers respected from your ranks who took the squadron to a remont, and brought them back to the tow of service pulled by the tractors, who, as his excuse, said that he would shoot himself in the head if he proved guilty, and he could add to it “honorous pioneering, ” so that in future times God forbid if you win [[Intruder: Thank you]] Tara, rara. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129044	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129045	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, I have read the Defence Reports for the past few years and in them, and even in those who were composed during the term of office of Mr. Krstičević, it is clear that the moments that are now part of the Croatian Air Force have been achieved by satisfying the number of attacks and that they fly. In view of that, your thesis, and the only one that actually referred to any facts, and not to chatter, has been knocked down, and the rest of yours is the right to think and say whatever you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129046	The second is Honorable representative Sanja Putica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129047	Thank you, President HS. So, Agent Grbin, you who come only from politics, here in front of the entire Croatian public, are diphasing the calling of politicians. But with the minister as a politician, he is a politician with 33,000 preferential votes, and with that warrior, the general of the Croatian Army who has just returned his dignity thanks to his military competences and the entire Croatian army today actually resembles the military. And the life span of the moments you've been talking about, you've made an excellent assessment of it when you paid 140 million euros for their recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129048	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129049	Dear colleagues, as far as I'm concerned, and I hope you know the currency in the Republic of Croatia is kuna, and then this purchase you're talking about is expressed in kunas, so you've only falsified seven and a half times when you went out with the number. As to whether or not I was in politics alone, it's completely irrelevant. I'm a politician today, and my previous job as a lawyer is irrelevant at this point, as should be the irrelevant and previous work of the general, though, impertinently fired from the Croatian Army because he violated the law in his actions because in 1990, the year that stands above the president of HS, we decided to change our access to the armed forces, we decided to step out of the system where the head of the Ministry of Defence is a general and we passed in civilian surveillance [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's something everyone would do [[Intruder: Thank you]] You should be proud. [[Agreement: A fellow coat of arms, thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129050	The third is the respected representative of Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129051	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The whole interpretation is based on the thesis that national security is at risk on the one hand, and on the other hand on the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia. Neither one, nor the other, knows it even a part of your colleagues on this side, though, will admit it publicly. This interpretation is so badly written, it is unfounded and totally missed, so other than the media attention that you will certainly get after this multi-hour debate, another effect will not have. And as for the international position of the Republic of Croatia, if you will, and in relation to the state of Israel and the United States, we have had the opportunity to see this in a prompt apology from the State of Israel on the one hand and in the US's press support on the other hand, after there was a reflection in the process. It is obvious that neither national security nor international reputation is at risk. The only thing that seems to me is that this baseless interpretation can violate the reputation of those who wrote it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129052	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129053	Dear Mr. President, dear colleague. The long-term development plan for the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia envisions that the moments will be able to fly by 2024. If you followed the procurement procedure of this F16, they should have been introduced into operational use in 2022 and 2023, respectively, provided that everything went well. As we know everything didn't go well, nothing went right, everything went wrong, respected colleagues. And if we started the procurement process today, such complicated jobs, some would say the world's hardest, if there were no harder ones than they can't be realised within a year and a half to two. This means that if the contract were to be concluded in 2020 these aircraft in operational use could come 4 or 5 years later when the existing resources would already expire If it's not a threat to national security, then I don't know what it is. [[The incursion president: Thank you, thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129054	Now it's Agent Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129055	Your Honor, Mr. Grbin. The job of the Mire Remont cost $132.9m, it appeared in the media as the biggest military job of the SDP government at the time. So I wanted to ask you if you consider this procedure more transparent than this team is more than this one, which is more what there are and the charges related to it and what actually lasts a trial. And what I particularly consider bad is that the trial on the matter of mystic remonts is closed to the public. I believe that the public should be referred to the details of this work so that we can learn from mistakes or that the same problem does not happen again now. It seems to me that a very similar problem has been repeated now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129056	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129057	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague Pernar, first of all, thank you for being able to read the exact figure of how much it cost to remont. Furthermore, I'd just like to point out to you the fact, do you know who reported possible corruption related, or criminal activities related to the supply and remonting of moments? Do you know? Minister Kotromanović. Therefore, to your question whether this procedure was more transparent than this, I can only answer it the following way. Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129058	Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129059	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow coat of arms, this Interpellation is ill-written and unfounded. Because the planes were purchased by a colleague of the coat of arms because our airspace is a secure colleague of the coat of arms because the confidential girls on all sides of the coat of arms because the notes of foreign embassies and institutions are not in Croatian media colleagues. So how can you not see it? Well, this is great. So we protected Croatian dignity, Croatian international reputation and Croatian national security in the next 50 years, and you don't see it. So take a look around, please, we don't have to throw planes here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129060	Answer. There's no answer. Then we'll go to a colleague of Skoric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129061	Thank you very much. Here's a esteemed colleague of the Grbin, you yourself said that in 2013 a remont of moments with a duration of up to 2024 were agreed, so I'm surprised at what today's debate is and why we're even getting new planes today. In 2013, you agreed on this and with the long-term development plan of the Armed Forces, it is defined that we should discuss in general the possibility of retaining the capabilities of combat aviation. So it's your authority after it restored its moments, one year later discussing whether to keep or rent. We just want to keep that ability and this process is maximum transparency. And the other day, we had a procurement plan where 100% of it was a transparent purchase in the morh until at the time of your government, nothing was transparent. So this is where you plant it. The fact is, this isn't just about the politician, it's probably about the commander and the general. We had a commander and a general and we see what's... Achieved for the development of the armed forces. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129062	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129063	Your Honor, Mr. President. If the purchase we're talking about had not been done, i.e. a remont of moments seven, six, seven years ago, Croatia would not have had a supersonic component of combat aviation today. And as we know, once you lose the capacity of the supersonic component of the Air Force, it's almost impossible to re-establish it. So if it hadn't been for that remont today, surely there wouldn't have been this impelation, there wouldn't have been even this supply, because it would have been meaningless and you're questioning it. And as for non-transparentity and failed acquisitions. I'll remind you of just a few of them. 150... No fee from the United States. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 12 Kiowa Warrior without compensation from the United States, completely transparent Thank you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129064	The Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament is now on the job of counterpart Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129065	Your Honor, Mr. President. Comrade Grbin, you, especially at the beginning of your address, collapsed on the duration of the battleplane procurement process. Do you know how long a small country, much smaller than Croatia, was called India getting its fighter aircraft. Do you know how long each other's small and poor country has been called Canada getting its helicopters much smaller and much poorer than Croatia? Do you know how long one, also very poor country, Norway, was getting its helicopters from Croatia, etc., etc.? And these are all the countries that have bought multiple fighter aircraft in their history while Croatia has first purchased new aircraft in history.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129066	Comrade Reiner, thank you, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129067	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Vice President, but these countries did not have Mr Krsticević as defence minister, you know. We have Minister Krsticevic, and he announced that this process would be resolved within a few months. Well, Mr. Krstičević practically announced in March 2017, returning from Tel Aviv that everything had been resolved, although we haven't even sent requests for those planes yet, he would have solved it much faster. But the joke aside, dear colleague Reiner, is not the problem here that lasted two years. It's not a problem for me. To get a guy like this for two years is one decent time. Do you know what the problem is? The problem is that from the first day on, we practically knew from the first day of that procedure that we would not be able to realize it, and we persisted as "grey" banging our heads through the wall, and rarely when the wall gave way. As a rule, let your head go, and that's what happened to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129068	Thank you. Now it's time for your colleague, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129069	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My fellow coat of arms, you're an expert lawyer, so please don't read anyone's messages selectively. What you left out of Ambassador Cohorst's statement I will now read. In addition, the United States was in a bilateral discussion with Israel about the possible purchase of aircraft. Unfortunately, how it happens sometimes during the negotiations and without any blame from the Croatian government, the United States and Israel failed to agree on the terms of purchase. That meant step backwards, but not failure. So I'm asking you to go back a little bit. When you selectively talk about what your government or the SDP government did at that time, the Republic of Croatia suffered financial damage thanks to the Government of the Social Democratic Party because we received MiGs with paved boxes and we suffered financial damage.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129070	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129071	Your thesis on whether the Croatian Air Force is operational or not at the moment, Croatian Air Force pilots replied. When the first time you came out of front of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, Croatian Air Force pilots responded as best they knew. They sat on planes, took off and showed that whatever technique they had at their disposal would do everything in their power to protect the Croatian sky. You can say whatever you want here, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have had a chance to see these planes that apparently don't exist, allegedly don't fly, etc. Take a look at the 2016 Annual Defence Report proposed by the prominent politician, Mr Krsticevic, and you will see how many hours the flight has been made with these planes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129072	Thank you. Dear fellow Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129073	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Grbin, you say – the Croatian public did not deserve to be deceived. However, you manipulate data from beginning to end. You say the international reputation of Croatia is at stake, but neither does the United States, nor does NATO, but it is likely to find out from these exhibitions. On the other hand, you say that three times more costs these planes, because their real price according to the report is 135 million dollars, but you're not saying that it's a 88-year price without equipment, no simulators, no weapons, no instructions, etc. What's that for? You're saying that the Assembly Committee is not familiar with these procedures and that it is necessary to get this license for the procurement of this technology to the constituency board and your president knows it very well from the first day it was bought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129074	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129075	Dear colleague, the price of the United States Congress is a real price. It is a price without upgrades because the United States of America which is the holder of the rights on those planes and without whose permission these planes cannot be transferred to third countries, so they did not allow the transfer to Croatia of anything other than what is stated in the report, which is the basic aircraft. I read you a copy of the document published in the Evening List which is very clear in September 2017 that it will not be allowed to transfer and that the United States will not be responsible for the computer or aircraft of that aircraft. And he's without a plane what? A bucket. Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129076	Thank you. Here's your pal, Bunjac, now you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129077	Thank you very much. I'd like to update one piece of information in this chronology of yours. On October 18, 2018, exactly 4 months ago, the Living Wall in the Assembly warned that there would be nothing since buying the plane. I talked about it myself. And now I'm interested in how that we who don't have any access to information through the state apparatus knew exactly what was going to happen, and Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic didn't know, even though he had the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at his disposal, and the employees of the Ministry of Defence, and the SOA, and the VSOA, and I don't know what not the mechanisms, contacts with ambassadors, etc. through which he could clearly know not only that F16 will not defend Croatia for the next 25 years, but that it will never come to the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129078	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129079	Dear Mr. Bunjac, I'll answer you with a question. So what makes you think he didn't know? I think he knew he knew everything, but he either didn't understand or he didn't care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129080	Here you go, fellow Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129081	Thank you, President of the Parliament. A fellow coat of arms, knowing this situation, no contracts have been concluded or paid. I personally think you're trying to make a theater out of the Parliament here. Why? First you try to make the truth false, you try to demean General Krstičević, verticalally moral Croatian generals, and you try it, and you do not have a problem with the planes that you took to the remont, vehicles that cost 139 million, which are not made, where even the numbers have been typed or changed, and that is not a problem for you, and this contract that has never been made, and to shame I can say Israel or not the knowledge of Israel that sold something that could not be sold, I believe that the Croatian state is neither guilty of this job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129082	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129083	You see, dear colleague, I have in no word diminished Israel's responsibility. That Israel was selling something that must not be sold and it is their responsibility and that is their responsibility, but I am not a representative in Knesseth, I care about Mr Netanyahu's responsibility to his representatives and to the citizens of Israel. I am interested in the responsibility of Mr Plenkovic and Mr Krstičević to this home and the citizens of this country, because, as Israel had to know what not to sell, so is Croatia and how it must know what to do and what not to buy. And the United States made that clear, loud and long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129084	The last replica for a respected colleague of the coat of arms, dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129085	I thank you, Mr. President, a colleague of the coat of arms politician Damir Krsticevic is a great politician, a great soldier and a great man. You know how to measure the quality of politicians, not by what they think of them as mediocre opposition politicians, but by what people think of him as being in a confidence vault. Enter Croatian military offices, ask every officer, officer and soldier what he thinks of politician Damir Krstičević, he will tell you that he has restored the dignity of the victorious Croatian army and the Croatian soldier. I ask the question is whether this strong Croatian army which has returned the dignity, the crime of which you are calling and seeking the resignation of General and politician Damir Krsticevic? The entire success of your government is that the moments flew to Ukraine, and they came back to tell me what they would say in the cariola on Korčula, and today they are the only thing they can do at a point in the military, and they can't fly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129086	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129087	About the annual abilities of Croatian aircraft, Croatian pilots told you and I won't repeat myself, but what you said about Mr Krstičević, I don't know the human characteristics of Mr Krstičević, we're not friends, we may be colleagues by profession, but we're not even acquaintances, we don't socialize. I'm not interested in personal human characteristics right now, I'm interested in his ability to behave in the function he's in, and these abilities are not very high with all due respect. Mr. Krsticevic has repeatedly shown that he is unable to bear the pressure of his duties. Let us remember its withdrawal, its submission, and I no longer remember the order in which the resignations took place, let us remember throwing here toy around the Croatian Assembly. Mr. Krstičević may be a wonderful man, I am not going into it, nor am I interested in it, nor should I be interested in it. I want to know how he's doing his job. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And here it turns out that it's in no condition. [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Grbin.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129088	Let's now go to 11 replicas for my colleague Bernardic, the first one's for fellow Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129089	Thank you, Mr. President, so you and your colleague have repeatedly mentioned the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia, but while you mentioned it as you have always manipulated, you lied to the Croatian public. Among other things, you mentioned Ambassador Kohorst, I will quote here his last statement: "Contrary to some news reports, the United States has never advised the Croatian government not to buy Israeli F16." Here, I will quote you once again if you haven't heard well, because you obviously have problems with this: "In contrast to some news reports, the United States has never advised the Croatian Government not to buy Israeli F16." So, I think they've said everything themselves that should have been said, that things are completely clear, so please. do not lie to the Croatian public. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129090	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129091	So here's thank you Falcone for actually putting the whole story back into focus, and that's what's causing this story. Robert Cohorst said, I think the president was talking about the document I gave the prime minister, which defines the procedure for obtaining a license to sell F16. Immediately after that statement, the Prime Minister said, I had already said on that question that I had not seen the document. And that's what this is really about. The real truth is that the Prime Minister knew everything, was familiar with it from the very beginning, and he lied, facelessly, as he lied about not being part of the Borg group, as he lied about buying the INU and returning it to Croatian hands, as he lied about not allowing the Sisak refinery to be shut down, so he lied and did not get any paper, but the American ambassador denied it. Thank you for returning.../incomprehensible/ focus. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129092	Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129093	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, so dear colleague Bernardic, you don't really have a solution for any social problem, not for the economy, not for school, not for health, not for demographics, actually for nothing. You cannot discipline your own representatives, let alone consolidate your own party. And the only thing left for you, and that's what Mr. Bauk advises you, he comes to you as that Nikolai Buharin to go into these interpretations, this is already four in a row. Three were unsuccessful, and this one in particular. So, since you're giving us some advice in your exposé, I suggest you don't call yourself the SDP Club, but call yourself the Interpellation Club. 'Cause if I should, really, if I should, if that's possible, let's say, because of your vanity, inertness and despair should actually be carried out. Interpreting over your club and yourself. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129094	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129095	Thank you, colleague Babić, I love it when you bring things back to focus and one of the basic things that we have spent the entire time in the SDP is for salary growth in Croatia and we have suggested that wages can currently grow between 300 and 500 kn by raising personal deductions and that the minimum wage in Croatia should not be less than 4000 kn. At the same time, you assured people that they could live on crumbs, from the salary of 3,000 kn net, you at the same time, instead of the minimum salary, raised salaries for the 18 000 richest in the country, for those who have salaries of more than 18 000 kuna, you at the same time forgiven the debts of the wealthy, that's your government's policy and that, at the same time, you clapped on your president when he called investors in Croatia because here is a cheap workforce. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129096	Thank you. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129097	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I'll do if I can. My colleague Bernardić, based on your interpretation, is the word transparency, so here we go. In the process of obtaining aircraft, the co-ordination of SDP for internal affairs and defence led by Mr Vidovic supported the process unanimously. Your vice president of the Defence Committee, Mr. Dragovan, voted in favour of this procedure. What did you support? You supported as a parliamentary representative in your government led by Mr Milanovic, that famous remont of MIG 21 who ended up with charges of bribery and intransparentity. And now I ask you, why is the process of the SDP Minister and the Government that ended up being transparent and this process supported by your most loyal associates and bodies of the SDP not transparent to you? Did you know that your members support this process and these bodies or do they work behind your back? That's the question because I don't know if you didn't know, why all this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129098	Comrade Boric, thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129099	So from the beginning, the position of the SDP is that Croatia needs to retain its ability in the air and that policy we have managed, and that is why the Defence Committee thinks that the government is doing open and transparent work, has given support to the acquisition but you have wasted that trust. And as for air polycing and procurement and MiG remont, I will quote to you the hero of the Croatian sky of knight Ivan Selak who said: Air policing still costs. In our case, that cost would be 20, 30 or 40 million dollars a year. Over the past four years, it's over 100 million and how much did we pay for the remont? We paid 13 and a few million kunas, so six times he paid us that desperate and catastrophic remont, but we kept the fighting ability, so I guess you trust the Croatian hero, a participant of the Homeland War more than your Prime Minister, who was at the same time in European metropolis, justifying himself with anemia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129100	Thank you, time's up. Here you go, Comrade Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129101	Thank you, Mr. President. The incompetence you mention is certainly not seen when we look at our minister Krstičević, but when we look at you, we see an incompetent leader of the opposition. You have shown this by not presenting it now after a few interpretations as a proposal, you have come in the last 10 minutes, but as a colleague of the coat of arms has explained this proposal. And you've mentioned over 40 times questions, questions, asking questions, you're the proposer here, you're bringing up this proposal for interpretation. So it's up to you to give clear arguments why we should accept this interpretation. About mentioning that we spent 2 years, you and I spent 2 years as a bad opposition, and you are those who have no knowledge to lead the opposition, not Minister Krsticevic, certainly not the one who has no knowledge to run the ministry. This procedure is certainly not the one that has compromised the defence ability since the '90s, it has been compromised by your MIG-remonting party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129102	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129103	So I said, I guess you trust the hero of the Croatian sky, the participant of the Homeland War more than those who were there at the same time in the Brussels halls, justifying themselves with anemia. I guess you believe that more. And for starters, I'm going to have to correct you. It's not an interpretation. It's an interpretation. We in the SDP certainly have some problems, but it's better for people to leave the SDP to get some than to go to prison like your party.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129104	Comrade Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129105	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence. Comrade Bernardic, you are calling this official procedure to obtain a squadron of aircraft non-transparents and people who participated as Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister to the lying. I'll just remind you, if it's something lying and embarrassing, if something has compromised the national security and combat power of our air force, then it's certainly your SDP government when it was established in 2016 to forge the technical documentation of serial numbers in which your knight Selak participated. These planes were landed in 2017 because they were no longer safe to fly, 5 Yemeni-origin aircraft on which the numbers set up by the commission in Morh were typed, then an investigation was launched and a certain gentleman admitted that he had received a bribe, these are your works on national security and... our sky. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129106	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129107	But you are talking to the wrong person, you must do this to the general here at the present Minister Krstičević because on the official pages is part of the planned tasks of the Croatian Air Force, the squadron of fighter aircraft from the 91st Air Force Base, during today, 14 February 2019 conducts regular flight activities during which a sound wall can be breached. So, the MiGs are flying. But you have one more detail, and I know it hurts. The detail is that the remont of moments cost six times less than that of someone else protecting the sky, and you only wanted to get three times the price through these planes, I know that you're used to paying more, but be honest, so admit that there are opportunities for the ministry, including ministers who can save money, not spend three times the money.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129108	Comrade Lucic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129109	Thank you very much. Mr Bernardic, I don't understand this SDP hack to the government of the Republic of Croatia if we know at the same time and as already here, that the previous government, the truth, not under your leadership, is under the leadership of Milanovic, but your party spent over 130 million, that then from HDZ and these people sitting here, nobody was as malicious as you in this procurement only planes where no approximate money was spent, and I said over 130 million. As you explain the very funds of taxpayers you gave for those planes that ended today at the museum, planes that don't protect the sky Croatian, planes that are brought in trucks, so how do you comment on your party would love to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129110	Answer, please. There's no answer, so let's go to the next line, the esteemed colleague of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129111	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129112	Just a minute, please, colleague Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129113	He's a colleague of Bernardich's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129114	Just a little co-worker, just a little bit, I beg you for parliamentaryism, you keep shouting out loud and distracting MPs and MPs from the other. On the other hand, it wasn't when you said such a reaction, so don't make a nervous move now, but calm down and let people talk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129115	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague Bernardic, or you don't know, or you don't want to know, but in any case you're cheating on our citizens with information when you say that the plane is worth $135 million, should have been sold and bought by the Republic of Croatia for $475 million. It is seen and true that in fact $135 million is an accounting value that the United States has delivered to the state of Israel since 86 C.E. It is known exactly what the Republic of Croatia was looking for and that, in fact, the state of Israel has improved combat capability, has added complete NATO compatible equipment, has carried out works and for the purpose of extending the life of the aircraft, has included a flight simulator, pilot training, technical staff in Israel, the initial package of spare parts we should have received, the entire personal equipment of the pilot, for three years. Total, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you]] 475 million U.S. dollars [[Intruder: Thank you]] is complete [[Intruder: Thank you]] offer and most acceptable. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129116	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129117	So if it's the perfect offer and the most acceptable, why didn't it come to it? Well, I'm not talking to you. You have an official messenger from the U.S. Congress who said that the price of these planes was $135 million, and you wanted to pay the same money to Croatian citizens 500. I'm not going in if someone wanted something there, but I'm asking why, why, why, why such a difference in price? We didn't get any answers to those things.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129118	Comrade Karlic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129119	Thank you. Mr Bernardic, here you have repeatedly said that this procurement procedure was not transparent, I would just like to remind you that 4 years ago during the SDP rule 51% of the defence ministry's funds were spent without a public tender, is 840 million kuna spent if no public tender had been held. And since Minister Krstičević is at the head of the Ministry of Defence, all 100% of the funds that go into the procurement are spent transparently, by public procurement and by publishing it with the presence of the media, all institutions, as well as interested members of the Defence Ministry or the Defence Committee and all those who want to hear it. Another thing that is very important to say, all the members of the Defence Committee, including two of your former defence ministers, have raised their hands unanimously for the purchase of these, for this procurement process and for the purchase of these planes. And what's important is that it was an interstate agreement that was just about to strengthen the external political position of the Republic of Croatia and that will I'm convinced [[Intruder: Thank you]] Now happen later. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129120	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129121	.../The speaker turned off...the point. So, the Defence Committee agreed because he wanted the Republic of Croatia to keep that military ability, he wanted to keep the planes, and now because of your procedure, Minister Krstic's procedure, the entire government, potentially endangering the possibility of fighting from the air, retaining that ability, it could happen, they believed you, you lied to them, you got a warning, you lied, you insisted on lying, then some tried to justify themselves by letting secret documents through the media. And I'll tell you one more thing, head of professional service for the remont aircraft, so-called. migova, Željko Šimić was also involved in the commission for the purchase of new aircraft i.e. old. How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129122	Comrade Jelkovac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129123	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Bernardic, you said that there has been no such threat to the safety of the Republic of Croatia since the Homeland War, such as this procedure. You don't know what you're saying, I advise you to stay away from these flossules if you want to be a serious politician. In doing so, you forgot about a scandal with moments that occurred at the time of your SDP government when Transparency International also said it was a very serious scandal that deeply compromised the Republic of Croatia. After that, he also had a Bounce. It is obvious that you cannot forgive General and Minister Krstičević, which in 2 years of office, has restored dignity to the Croatian military, which he did, what you failed in 4 years, so now you are trying this way, to level your failures with a loving procedure, in which there was no blame of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129124	Thank you. There's no answer, Comrade Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129125	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Bernardic, you spoke in your debate about the 135 million that the US administration said the value of these planes was the difference between 500 million you mentioned and we were supposed to pay for the planes today. I wonder, is it really possible that someone was going to black out that kind of money or am I wrong? I'm really shocked to hear it, and I just can't believe that 2/3 of someone might have intended it. Are you going to have to use your money again? It seems that you will and do you feel that someone will have to go to the mental pain treatment that this job hasn't gone through? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129126	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129127	It is certainly indicative that the official price, which came before the American Congress, is three times smaller than the one that Croatian citizens were to pay. It's at least indicative. It is also indicative of the fact that the former defence minister company has reregistered itself for the service and maintenance of the aircraft. And so I asked Minister Krstičević today, and it is my duty, is your former firm and asked you again in the company register for the maintenance and service of the aircraft and with what intention did she do so? So we're just looking for an answer. Did she do it if she did it with what intention? Answer us, it's in favour of transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129128	And the last replica, dear colleague Zekanovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129129	Dear counterpart Bernardic, I will agree with you even in one part that we have an incompetent government, not so many Minister Krstičević, but above all the diameter of Plenkovic, but also President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, who had to lobby politically to get planes, and they were not frames, because Trump did not bend them. But here, however, it's fantastic on your part, because you didn't want those planes, and now you're complaining we didn't buy them. And actually, this is one big game. Yesterday you were together with HDZ around Istanbul and against the referendum complex. Yesterday they were on TV together, who? Picula and Shujica, they talked about the stability of both the Socialists and the IPP to be together and you spoke against the populism, the right and the left, any one. So make a deal whether you're with HDZ or against it. Looks to me like you're in need, and I'm a little bit more, right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129130	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129131	So we can never be with those who supported one fascist Tajani, who wants Croatia, Istria and Dalmatia. We can't be with them. And I expect this group, both HDZ and HSS, which is on the European Police page, to expect the CNS that is there, but also the DSS to launch within its clubs, the process calls off this Tajani, who actually wanted to develop territory, Croatian territory and which does not respect the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, and they supported it all. It's a minimum of what I expect. I do not want to enter into a debate on the referendum, I deeply disagree with you, because human rights in Croatia, civil freedoms are not allowed and personal freedoms must not be questioned, it must not be questioned whether anyone has stolen someone in this process that you state, whether HDZ has blacked out the signatures, you deal with them. But in this way, we must not put ourselves in a position to threaten, fundamental human freedoms. Civilization reached Croatia after 27 years
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129132	Thank you. We have come to an end with replicas, so now we are going to go to a representative of the government, who will give an explanation of the report the government has filed, with us is Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, and in the second part, Defence Minister Krsticevic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129133	Honorable MPs and MPs. The government of the Republic of Croatia rejects all interpretation allegations as unfounded, unfounded and incorrect and proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reject proposals for conclusions from the interpretation. The issue of obtaining and equipping a multi-purpose fighter plane has been delayed for the last 15 years, partly for economic reasons, but also because there was no political will. Taking into account the survival of Croatian Air Force and retaining the capacity to protect airspace, the government has made a decision to launch the process of obtaining fighter aircraft. This is certainly one of the most complex strategic decisions in the defence portfolio, after the end of the Homeland War and our policy is to strengthen the system of homeland security and national security strategy and greater investment in the Croatian military, Croatian police and of course funds for Croatian defenders. One of the reasons for the initiation of the procedure was the failure of the MiG 21 2013, which I remember as much as I do not recall the initiation of the impellation procedure, although this job is the subject of criminal proceedings in both Croatia and Ukraine. In your interpretation, you claim that the government, the ministry, and we heard from your statements, especially you go to Minister Krsticevic, did not act with minimal due attention, thus jeopardising the safety and foreign policy position of Croatia. However, for these as well as a number of other claims you do not make valid arguments, but your allegations are based on superficial assessments derived from the ignorance of matter and, above all, political opportunism. That's how those who were the greatest critics yesterday, choosing Israeli planes, spoke here about old buckets, suddenly the most disappointed and paid for those same planes. And this is because of the lack of contract concerns as to the future of the Croatian Air Force, I am responsible for saying that all actions in the process of obtaining aircraft have been carried out in a transparent manner in accordance with the law with the best possible faith and with the necessary due attention. I will list several elements related to this procedure that I consider relevant primarily to the Croatian public. Given the previous experience in MiG 21 remonting and the complexity of this procurement, this government and the Defence Council decided that the concept of approach to the acquisition of aircraft should be at the level of government to the government, so-called. Governor to Governor's approach. This is how we wanted to ensure that the countries with which we will negotiate guaranteeing the implementation of all segments of the contract and of the transaction. I would like to point out that, in order to initiate the procedure and obtaining TPT, the state currently owned or sold by arms and military equipment is responsible for the transfer of third parties from the US authorities. So in this particular case Israel. The necessity of obtaining TPT has, of course, been known to Croatia since the start of the procurement process, but full 100% elimination of all risks is not possible in any process. In September 2017, the Deputy Assistant Minister of Foreign Affairs of the United States signed the US's approval for the temporary transfer of technical data for future sale of Israeli F16 CDs to Croatia. In no official communication with Israel nor with the United States until 15 November, it was not stated that the United States would not approve a TPT for the offered configuration of Israeli aircraft. However, in order to obtain all the necessary information and to review the procedures and conditions for obtaining TPT on 11 January 2018 after the expert team presented a narrow circle of members of the Government to study performance, I asked the Ministry of Defence to visit Israel and the United States to receive additional guarantees and additional consultations. It's a duty of attention. The head of the Chief Staff of the Armed Forces to General Zbor Mirko Šundov and on 18 January, a representative of the Israeli Ministry of Defence once again reaffirmed Israel's commitment and responsibility for the TPT's conduct. On January 29th, US Deputy Defence Minister Mihatov, Washington, said the United States would support any choice in particular if it comes to F16 planes. He also stated that obtaining authorisation for TPTs if it is an Israeli offer is not a political issue or is not questionable. In the US State Secretariat, Deputy Assistant Foreign Minister stressed that if Croatia decides to buy Israeli F16, it expects no obstacles within the US institutions to obtain approval for their delivery. Deputy Prime Minister Krsticevic met with International Security Conference in Munich last February with executive director Lockheed Martin. On that occasion, and after that the letter also showed the support of the company for the Israel F16 procurement project. Only after these meetings and additional guarantees were the Government and the Defence Council made a decision on the purchase of Israeli aircraft, so that Croatia insisted that the contract be signed only after the final acquisition of the TPT. All these meetings were requested before, before and after the receipt of the document on which you refer, which was delivered at technical level by the US Embassy to representatives of the Croatian authorities, which contains additional information on the TPT's outcome procedure. However, the paper does not say that Croatia will not get the TPTs, or that there will be some problems in this respect to demystify it. The document provides for Croatia to make a decision on the selection of the F16 platform, which would exclude the Kingdom of Sweden from the procedure at the moment and violate the provision of the procurement procedure with a clear definition of the demand for an offer. Every step on the process of obtaining aircraft has been reported to the public in a timely manner, as well as the difficulties related to the TPT's outcome reported by the Ministry of Defence on 15 November 2018. As for the price-related interpretation allegations, I repeat that the value of the Israeli offer was $475 million. Unlike Greek, Swedish and American, the Israeli offer alone met all the requirements of the competition. It was complete, the highest quality and the most financially profitable. Ten singles cost every 20 million 825 thousand dollars. Two double seats cost $24 million 925 thousand. A total of 258 million 100 thousand dollars. The Simulator costs $25 million to $400,000. Logistic flight support in Croatia, spare parts including three spare engines, consumable material, documentation, ground flying equipment, a 64m-dollar inspection package. Maintenance, repair and flight support services for three years including Israeli personnel in Croatia cost $43m, 100,000. Arming and accompanying equipment, missiles, bombs, artillery grenades, carriers, baits cost, external fuel tanks, night flight glasses cost $11 million. The training staff in Israel 17 million dollars. Pilot equipment 18 sets and flight planning and analysis equipment $3 million. Building infrastructure and adapting facilities 14 million 300 thousand dollars. The cost of late payment remembers it was a 10-year period of $38 million. All together, $475 million. A huge difference from the accounting price of the 1988 plane so you have a picture of what you asked. Unlike Greek, Swedish and American, the Israeli offer alone met all the requirements of the competition. It was complete, the highest quality and the most financially profitable. Airplanes F16 CD Barak since the original procurement Israel has modernised on several occasions. Therefore, they are worth more, thus increasing their fighting ability and their financial value. In addition, Croatia has since the beginning insisted on a total package of total packages, a very important element for those who do not know the details, which contract includes training and logistics, maintenance, infrastructure, and not the purchase of a naked plane. It is a completely incorrect quote from an interpretation claiming that the implementation of this process has marred Croatia's international reputation. Both the United States and Israel stressed their willingness to further develop allied and partner relations and continue to deepen defence cooperation with Croatia, including during the visit of US Defence Minister Mattis in July 2018 when Mattis praised the decisions on the acquisition of new military equipment and promised to assist in modernising the Croatian army. This Decision shall enter into force on Croatia was also visited for the first time by Israeli President Rivlin, who also held a meeting with defence ministry representatives. During the celebration of Victory Day and Homeland Thanksgiving, Croatian Defence Day 5 August Israel sent 3 F16 CD Barak aircraft that flew over Knin in a joint formation with Croatian Air Force aircraft in a replication sense, which means they intend to sell those planes to Croatia. I remind you, Israel has publicly pointed out that Croatia has shown professionalism and correct judgment at every step of the process, that it has not been able to influence the outcome of the process and cannot be held accountable. The American side confirmed it, but here you are claiming that we are responsible. For what exactly? Because unlike others, we started to acquire multi-purpose combat planes, which you could, but you didn't, because we accepted an Israeli offer that was incomparably more quality than the others in terms of the completeness of the offer and not only priced it, but in the whole package, including business cooperation, because in the context of the purchase of aircraft, we rated this offered aircraft as the best value for money and therefore the most responsible choice towards taxpayers. Because we were trying to do a good job for Croatia, but by complex circumstances beyond our influence, unfortunately this time we did not make it to the end. Unfortunately, we do not have a crucial impact on the final decisions of the US authorities on the approval of TPIT and we have clearly and reasonedly even verified it in writing throughout the process. And we know what kind of relations in the area of strategic partnership, defence cooperation have between Israel and the United States. The responsibility and obligation to take part was in the State of Israel, which on several occasions guaranteed Croatian representatives that they would succeed. It is important to stress that no contract was signed because of our approach, nor were any financial obligations taken except those incurred by the Ministry of Defence, which is a total of 600,000 kuna, which for the study which one consulting house made, which for the costs of travel and contact activities was. This has not caused any damage to the budget, has not damaged international reputation and has not damaged relations with our partners, neither with Israel nor within NATO. The selection procedure of a multi-purpose combat aircraft was conducted transparently with clear criteria and equal conditions for all interested parties. From this process we will all, and we are not the only country that has happened to have to go on multiple purchases of such sophisticated and demanding military equipment, we will learn certain lessons but we are determined as a Government to modernise Croatian Air Force, and based on appropriate analyses and preparation we will start new activities. The government is behind Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Damir Krsticevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129134	So, the ministers have a minute and a half, or you can leave for the next 5 minutes, so they won't now, the minister, but later during the debate, will give their position. We have a replica, a total of 15 replicas, the last one was a colleague of Bunjac, just to write it down, so let's go, first one's a colleague of Grmoja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129135	Dear Prime Minister, you have reduced one of the most important strategic decisions to cheap piar and crisis communication. With your non-transparentity, you gave new arguments to the opponents of the acquisition of fighter aircraft, thus jeopardising the future of Croatian Air Force and national security. How to trust your vision, when one day you're defending more older planes, and then another day less new. You seem no better than those who believe that the Croatian sky should be left to the Italians and Hungarians, and we have seen from your friend Tajani's statement, which would mean leaving the Croatian sky to the Italians. And I'm asking you here Will HDZ's Euro MPs ask for resignation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Mr. Tajani. [[Intruder: Comrade Grmo, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129136	My fellow Thunderbolt, please, everyone's stuck to the weather, and so are you. Here's your answer if you want the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129137	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Grmoy, for your implications that this government does not want to buy modern aircraft for our warplanes they are simply factually incorrect, if we wanted to do so we would not even go in this process. And those are the facts. Show me who's been doing this so far in the last 20 years to buy a new one in terms of moving from East to Western technology, these kind of aircraft to strengthen Croatian Air Force. Did we do it in time in a political sense at the beginning of our mandate, we did, did we try to make this process successful, did we, did we not succeed because of the facts that were and the decision beyond our reach, unfortunately yes. We learned lessons, and our commitment to getting planes It shall be the same as at the beginning of the term of office. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129138	Comrade Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129139	Dear Prime Minister, I believe General Krsticevic has done his job well, I believe he and his team have done his best to make it right. However, I believe that you have also scheduled President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. This is not just me, this is from military analysts who say that in NATO, Croatia is not supposed to have military aviation at all and that you at the highest level, which is with President Trump, you did not do lobbying. So you're not. And that all these kinds of jobs to negotiate with the presidents of the government, with the presidents of the state, and that we haven't realised this job is entirely your fault. In other words, according to military analysts, I quote Trump blew off Prime Minister Plenkovic, and he... when lobbying at the highest level, regardless of what General Krsticevic and his team did properly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129140	You want an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129141	Thank you very much. Representative Zekanovic, I can only then understand that you are against this interpretation, praise the whole job. Right? I can't understand it any other way than what you just said. So I'm sure neither you nor these predecessors of yours from MOST will ever be in a position to decide anything when it comes to the government of the Republic of Croatia, the direction of development of Croatian aviation, the direction of strengthening the Croatian military, the conduct of foreign policy, these are desert dreams, people who try to use even these topics to hear and see them, without arguments, flossules, untrues, quoting unnamed sources, gossip that you collect in the halls but you won't get support, you won't, people understood you, saw you, saw that you were a hollow story, that you were from the beginning, that you'll stay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129142	Comrade Bernardic, come in. ... What kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129143	President-in-Office of the Parliament, in 238, I asked the prime minister very nicely if he had made an appointment in lobbying. He kept me... The prodic, so in all that street stand, he went on as he started. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I asked nicely, so you've made an appointment lobbying. ... It's just a question of whether you've made an appointment in lobbying. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what I want.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129144	Comrade Zekanovic, you are being warned. It wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it was an attempt at replication. Here's my colleague Bernardić. Comrade Bernardic, come in. ... Well, I guess that's when you called on behalf of the proposer at some point. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You haven't heard from me at all? He wrote his colleague down by mistake. Well, then, colleague Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129145	President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister. In Croatia's political space, especially during pre-election campaigns, the most common word we hear is responsibility, we are ready to take responsibility, responsibility, responsibility, responsibility. But when the moment comes that responsibility really needs to be determined, when it really needs to be taken over then nowhere else, everyone escapes. So I'm asking you who's responsible for not getting this plane deal? Who's responsible for leaking information from the government's body? Who is responsible for denying the nonpapers and warning the American side that work must be done in a certain technical way and we have all been witnessing these past few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129146	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129147	Dear Representative Klisovic, therefore, unlike the time when you were chief of cabinets of the then foreign minister, today President Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic, it is good to remember this from your fellow SDP and unlike when you were Deputy Foreign Minister and here thanks to the MOST who did not exist then would probably have reported you to the Committee for Conflict of Interest as the married godfather of the then prime minister but without launching the procedure before the commission. Neither then nor later nor now as an opposition representative, you have not launched these initiatives and taken responsibility as you normally like to say in the SDP's rhetorical figures. We did it, we did it unfortunately from other reasons it didn't happen, not because of us. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129148	It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure of counterpart Klisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129149	Well, Mr. President-in-Office, article 238, Mr. Prime Minister, spoke completely past the subject and beyond my question. My professional career, I think, is not being discussed here today, but is being discussed with the government and the Minister for Unfulfilled Work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129150	So there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, there was nothing even offensive, don't be angry just the facts are put out so that I can't make any warnings or warn you about it, and please and don't raise any injuries to the Rules of Procedure for those reasons. ... This isn't a warning level, this was, this, this... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] No, well, not every violation of the Rules of Procedure, sometimes a man tries to prove that the breach of the Rules of Procedure is close, but it doesn't really work out, and some of you are deliberately going to abuse the replica, like you're a colleague of Zekanovic, but calm down, calm down, don't be angry. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129151	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you took responsibility here today, you said I guarantee that the process was transparent, that it was fair, that it was legal. And here I will quote what you said last month, so the beginning of the quote: “I had no knowledge of e-mails” at the end of the quote. The second quote "No emails were sent to me." end of quote. Which is true, but you took responsibility. Third quote, "I didn't know that. I read that like you in the paper." End of quote. The fourth quote "It wasn't brought to my attention but if it were, I would react." Well, now we're reading all these e-mails in the paper and you didn't know. Here I will quote an American ambassador even though I don't like speaking in foreign languages in the Croatian Parliament, and I will quote it in English so we don't get lost in translation. Quote in English/ said [[Intruder: Time, Time]] You knew, you knew the prime minister, [[Intruder: Time]] You knew because if you didn't know, then you're incompetent, but then say it. [[Intruder: Come on, colleague Hajdukovic, time is up]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129152	Comrade Hajdukovic, please and everyone else hold on a minute for your speech. There's no answer, so let's move on. Comrade Lenart, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129153	I thank the Honorable President, so here, the prime minister spoke here about the excellent readiness of the Croatian Army, I believe that the Croatian Army would be excellent preparedness, regardless of who the minister is, given by Mr Krsticevic or someone else, not thanks to the ministers, but thanks to the great soldiers that the Republic of Croatia has. But I am not so concerned about the threat that we are threatened by those who may be threatening some kind of armed force, I am more concerned about the threat that the Republic of Croatia has than those who, with your help, take over Croatian companies, INA, Agrokor, Croatian agricultural land 33,000 hectares, sources of Croatian drinking water, it worries me more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129154	There's no answer, so let's go to a colleague of Matic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129155	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the technique is inexorable and will remain in tune for everything you've said here today. But I'm interested and I'm going to take my glasses to see your face and tell me if you really believe what you read here today, and when everything is so perfect, really what you point us to, what's the problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129156	Nothing, let's move on. You want an answer, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129157	Dear Representative Matic, the problem is that the aircraft salesman failed to obtain a US license whose company Lokin Martin produced those planes according to the rules that the United States has for this type of transaction. It didn't happen because this kind of transaction, regardless of the huge one, so if you want to, in financial terms, very difficult military cooperation that exists at the annual level between the United States and Israel, this case with these planes, has so far not had and they have not passed this process for the first time, and unfortunately, they haven't had enough experience, and even here, not just us, but they, and that's why it didn't happen, and not because of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129158	Thank you. Comrade Vidovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129159	Dear Prime Minister, you are trying to practically remove responsibility from the Government claims that the third party of the bidder was, in principle, responsible for obtaining a transfer of technology to third parties, in this case Israel. However, what I am interested in is who was responsible for making the decision to buy from Israel, therefore, practically on the basis of an incomplete offer, who was responsible for making that decision, couldn't we wait a little while for Israel to eventually get permission or some other country, and on that basis make decisions, as the Government of Slovakia did these days after.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129160	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129161	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidovic, for this question, and here you have set an example for Slovakia. Well, it's easy enough to get you a drink if you're buying new planes from Lokin Martin, and the American authorities need to give you permission. I don't think that's some big problem, you don't need some big philosophy to do that, because I'm assuming that what Lokin Martin is producing is going to be approved by the U.S. authorities to sell to someone else. This operation, which I said in my speech, you must have listened well, so you saw why something that was bookkeeping 135 becomes more modernized than 256, so all the other costs that go to it was a good offer, it was a good offer for us in these circumstances, affordable financial, sustainable over the years with quality military service, responsibility. Council of Defense and Government. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129162	Thank you. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129163	Thank you very much, esteemed President HS. Dear Prime Minister, we've had the opportunity to hear in your opening statement that you're not actually guilty, that it's the fault of Israel and America. Because in the past two years there have been 8 seminars organised for governments and individuals who want to buy weapons that have been modified to citizens, American weapons, but from other hands. The seminar was not attended by anyone, and you are about to repeat the same story again, and now there are two seminars, one is an education to say, one is in Orlando in February, and the other is in April in London. The quotation for Orlando is 2150 dollars, and for London is £1850, have you decided to send someone to this exhibition or seminar to learn how to buy American Other firearms [[Intruder: Thank you]] I'm a salesman. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129164	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129165	Thank you very much, Mr. Dark Taritash. I'm pleased to see you follow the calendar of a seminar that concerns arms trafficking and weapons procurement by the United States. I'll talk to the Deputy Prime Minister, see if you have any aspirations for a resort in some future... And if there are funds, we will send you, we will send you, so we will take you as a consultant to help us in future processes to guide us through the maze of American legislation, to guide us through the experiences of other countries that have succeeded. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Obviously, I can see that you want to open a story to those who are not experts in this, in this business and the propo team worked exclusively by people at the Department of Defense. We didn't take some people who don't do aviation. If you want to go to a seminar, we'll find the funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129166	Thank you. Here you go, pal Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129167	Dear Prime Minister, I was in simple mathematics. Since the Netherlands, Jordan has bought 15 modernized F16 for 76m euros. That's about 5 million apiece. We buy 12 out of them for $442 million. The price difference is approximately six times. You assure us that we pay six times the price of those planes because the cost of pilot training, weapons, infrastructure adjustment, and some other costs make that price difference six times. But the public doesn't trust you. I can understand that the cost of additional things is even double, but even then it's far from $442 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129168	You want an answer? No, I don't. Well, we're going to a colleague named Jujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129169	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you said in your statement that there was no damage to the state budget, which is simply not true. So, the damage exists because there were certain costs and commissions that prepared and analysed all these offers, people who have been in Israel all this time and negotiated with the Israelis so that some financial damage exists. But why did I answer the line? Because you're 28. In 01st press releases, I'm going to quote you: "I think I have some idea why the business of getting a plane failed. We are doing an analysis and in the coming weeks we will present it to the public." Here, it has been the third week since then, 28. You said it in 01st. You haven't introduced us to your idea. You didn't even bring it out here. I'd like to know here's the answer to the simple question. What's your idea of why the business of getting a plane failed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129170	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129171	Your Honor, you'd better listen next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129172	Here you go, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129173	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, I listened to your debate and what you said about the Israeli plane offer is basically correct. That was a good offer. It was a correct offer, but that offer had one dare I say a key flaw, which is that it was not possible. And it wasn't possible because the one who's a business carrier in these cases, which is the U.S. government, did not give consent to that. Dear Mr. Prime Minister, if you had treated me with due attention, that you were acting in the manner of a good master, a good businessman, so since you know by profession what it means to me, then you should have known that when someone like the United States at the beginning of business is giving you such misunderstandings as they did to you, then you won't realize this job until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129174	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129175	Dear Representative Grbin, therefore, and you, in the written part of the interpretation in your oral presentation, referred to this technical document, and I am sure in my speech that you listened carefully because you have a sense of due attention that when the team of the Ministry of Defence presented its professional study to the top circle of the government, it was January 11th before the reference technical paper that he called himself noen with blue or green paper as a good master as someone who made such strategic decisions with due attention I said that we would go further in this process and only if we get additional guarantees that Israel would take responsibility for the TPT and guarantee that the United States would give it. That's why these people went to both Israel and the United States.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129176	Thank you. My friend, Predec, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129177	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Prime Minister, I must first respond to this response from my colleague, Djujic. He is a representative in the Croatian Parliament and cannot get an answer better listen. This is the Croatian Parliament. Please respect us. Our questions are not malicious, or at least they're not malicious, at least not by my side. And you're a guest here, so please answer correctly. In your defense, you said our suspicions were superficial assessments and opportunism. I'd just say, we don't have planes today. Are those superficial grades? Next, you're talking about transparency and you've done everything with attention. Well, I'm afraid what if you weren't careful? What would happen if you weren't careful? This really isn't a provocation. A colleague, Djujic, said, and you claimed there was no financial damage. We can tell how much this really cost, this procurement process, the trip to Israel, and all this talk about getting MIGs, or F16?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129178	You want an answer? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129179	Honorable counsel can answer better listen. I don't have any problem with that. It's nothing rude. Yes, of course. And I don't think I'm a guest. I was elected to this Croatian Parliament just like you. In fact, as the party leader who won the election and won the trust of MPs in this same parliament. I can say I'm on temporary work in the government if you want. Is that okay? It is. So there's no disrespect. There are political games and conversations that are sometimes more lively, sometimes less lively. As far as expenses are concerned, 600 thousand kuna data from the Department of Defense. The budget, thanks to this Ministry of Defense government, has grown. He's more than five billion kunas. Working hours People Costs Deloitte for study 192,000 kn, there are no others, there are no hidden costs, I don't think these are the costs of which our budget will fail, the state will suffer no harm, it was an investment in a job that we went with in good faith and a desire to solve the issue of airplanes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129180	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129181	Mr. Prime Minister, isn't it strange to you that at the time the transactions with Israel, former company Minister Krstičević, King ICT, were arranged, the founder of the company's daughter Planet 9 which deals with the remonting of aircraft and the production of warm drinks? What do those two activities have to do with it, I don't know, but it's quite certain that after that King ICT and Israel Aerospace Industries that sells us planes, they perform together in competitions in the Republic of Croatia, so they're pals. Well, isn't there any sound logic to the suspicion that it has happened to former friends and business partners of Mr Krstičević? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129182	Would you like an answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129183	Dear Representative, you are in the towers of the Croatian Parliament known as the resigner, I would like to tell you first of all that it is impossible, therefore it is impossible to service any aircraft of any kind, whether they are F 16, whether they are Grippen, whether they have on them do not know what, the company that is not authorized to do so. Serving F 16 must be carried out by someone who has the right authority... Grippen's service must be working for someone with Sab's authority. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Serving Rafal works by someone who had the authority... Eurofighter's service is done by someone who has the authority of the Airbus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not what companies do that have no reference or authority. So these stories of a good guess, some of your delusions of corruption are as empty as your entire rhetoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129184	Thank you. So we've come to the end of the replica, now I'm opening a debate, we've got nine registered clubs and I'm calling the Live Wall Representatives Club and the SNAGA and Agent Pernar to take the floor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129185	The respected public, first of all, would like to say that Croatia has been embezzled into NATO, we were told when NATO enters NATO that NATO will be willing to cut our expenditures for the military and that, in fact, because of NATO, we will save, that thanks to them, we won't have to spend much money, however, the facts are reversed. Only for the military aircraft that NATO suggests should take, or squadron that we should have, in order to comply with NATO standards, the government decided to single out 2.9 billion kunas. It is such an initial cost, of course there will be additional costs. Last year alone, the cost of military missions we sent our soldiers to amount to as much as 180 million kunas. When it comes to radar systems, hoods and other military equipment that we do not need, it is clear that Croatia has not saved any money by entering NATO. Also, our partners haven't given us anything for free, as much as they ask us to participate at our expense in the war in Afghanistan that has already lasted 17 years without the possibility that it will be over in the near future. We also send soldiers to the Russian border, I see even that economic benefit for our country. As far as other things are concerned, I explained where the root of the problem lies. In fact, we're saying that the new plane F 16 costs $18 million, but then they say it's, but there's no equipment on it, etc., okay, here's used planes Dutch F 16, modernized, costing 5 million apiece. I repeat, Jordan bought them, 15 of them even for 76 million euros while we buy 12 heavily used planes, the same F 16 modernized for as much as $442 million. This means that the price difference per plane between the one used in the Netherlands and the one used in Israel is more than six times, so I ask you, how can the Government convince anyone that the price difference of six times represents the cost of pilot training, weapons and infrastructure adjustment? I can understand that the government says that, say, okay, the price is, say, 5 million euros per plane and everything else is 5. But we have a situation here that the plane costs, say, 5 million euros and that training and everything else costs, say, 30 million euros. Are we actually buying planes or paying for pilot training? Also, the question is why is the cost of, say, pilot training high if NATO is our partner and America is our ally? Well, I guess according to the partner country, there should be some softer criteria. But as you know, there are no such criteria. I would like to cite another by my court the lie of Prime Minister Plenkovic, he said this in his own time. It is about planes that will come to Croatia fully adapted to NATO standards. The cost of costs will include everything necessary for these aircraft to be available to the Croatian Armed Forces and the Air Force for at least the next 25 years. So he's actually here saying that the planes and equipment that we're going to get along with them will be enough in 25 years. Of course, the same thing in my court is unserious. However, what he probably meant was that these planes would be able to fly for the next 25 years. However, I personally have to point out that he did not convince me, and since I am not a military pilot, I will quote the words of the one who was, Ivan Selak, the famous pilot said: “People who say that the aircraft used and weighty, I am burdened to be more vulgar than the Amsterdam prostitute that its maintenance will be cheaper than the new all talks about the people who worked on that commission. So, some convinced, says pilot Selak, "the cost of maintaining a 30-year-old plane will be cheaper than a new one". Let's move on. He says: “The worst thing about being older is that he spends more time in maintenance halls. The engineer's getting less and less flying. After 30 years, practically very little and considered the possibility of serious use of F16." And what is this about? So if these planes were good for combat activities, let's assume they are what Mr. Krsticevic and the group assure us, so why would Israel get rid of them? Why would Israel sell planes that I dare say according to their thesis better than new ones? Modernized. They have great technology. So why did they make them rich, so now they're getting rid of what logic is in it? Of course, the following thing is said: "After 22 to 23 years, maintenance prices are drastically jumping." So the cost is enormous. And what's really important. The government assures us that the lifetime of these planes should be if they are about 30 and 25, approximately 55 years old or not. So does any of you believe here that you are sitting here that something used in a close conflict means in a struggle which should be explicitly accurate, reliable, etc. can you function for as long as 55 years after the date of production? I personally don't, but obviously my opinion doesn't matter, and Mr Krstičević and his family matter. What I want to say to the Croatian people is that Croatia does not need a military squadron. Croatia does not need new or used F16 planes. Croatia has completely other problems that it is unable to deal with, and poses a threat to the territorial integrity of our country and the security of our citizens. I will only list two threats that Croatia faces, but this problem is inadequately solved. The first problem is that our soldiers guard the Russian border, or are located on the Russian border, instead of protecting our own border, which is ugly and our country's sovereignty is daily being violated by people who are illegally entering it without any or with bad documents. How F16 planes will help us deal with it, I don't know. But there's another question. What is most sacred and loved is actually a man's home. It is a lesson explained by Branko Ćopić in his book "The Ježeva kućica" which is currently being kicked out of the booklet. The Croatian citizen's home is not in a position to protect the Croatian government. Today, a European Court of Justice ruling has been passed, with which our law on credit default has been laid down with foreign creditors who have not been granted the work of the CNB out of force. This means that all claims for the nullity of the contracts that our citizens have filed against the RBA cooperatives that have operated without the approval of the CNB will actually fall because the law which has allowed them, or which has been on the side of our citizens by the European Union, has been annulled or put out of force. Instead of facing this problem that is clearly the problem of citizens or, say, the problem of hungry children by schools, the state is getting military planes for 2.9 billion kuna. Also said the government people thought I'd call them colleagues but actually we're not kind of colleagues, I'm asking them how they're not ashamed to say that foreign partners respect us. You've seen all the more stuff. I'll list some. European Commission President Junker has seen how he treats Prime Minister Plenkovic? Did you see what he was doing to Prime Minister Plenkovic? And then he turns like this. I'll give you another example. The President of the European Parliament, supported by this government, says that Dalmatia and Istria are Italian and refuses to apologize and refuse to say no, but it is part of Croatia and the government accepts this farce, so we have now come to mention the President of the European Commission and the European Parliament, and now we come to the famous and famous Donald Tumpa, who was able to reach the fence of the White House. You could all see that. If you have a relationship between the Tajani, Juncker and Trump, we have a relationship that the foreigners are very fond of, or our god-awful partners are asking us a question, and how they would just treat us so they don't appreciate us. The way I get the plane myself suggests a lot of illogicality in my court. He dared even say one element to force a job that I don't see any other reason than corruption, and I'll say which. Let's start by assuming that the sale of Israeli aircraft to Croatia requires the consent of the US government, whether everyone knew it or not, essentially everyone knew that it would be the American government that had to confirm it. If Croatia has decided to buy those planes it should have told Israel, OK we are interested, we would like to buy, but please only one thing, please give permission from the US government, if the US government allows and that consent for this sale, we enter this business and we buy them. It would be a logical sequence, it would be a logical sequence of events. However, what the Croatian government is doing, the Croatian government first says we are buying these planes, entering a contract with the Israelis, and only then is the US government's consent sought. And that's why this whole circus started, if Croatia had first asked for the consent of the Americans then it would have been clear what we were on and there wouldn't be a big deal about a job that could never actually be done. Also, the Croatian public has been expressing a skepticism towards this job since the very beginning, you all know the complete opposition, but even experts like Mr. Selak's military pilot, here's another weapons expert Mr. Zubak, he's been visiting the HRT and he said there that his court does not make this clean work, that these plane israubans are not worth so much and he expressed, he called the Israelis to watch out for a name, says skilled merchants. Are they skilled merchants who convinced us or sold us the balls under the kidneys, as the people say, or are we actually corrupt? That's the question you're asking? And there's an appropriate saying for this moment, folks, saying, "Who's flying high, low, "I think this government has gone to heaven with this failed purchase of planes, and it actually fell nowhere or fell down, but what we don't need is what's crucial. This money has a million other places where it could be used more wisely in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129186	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Branko Bacic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129187	I would like to thank Mr Vice-President, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, of course, that the HDZ Representatives Club has both cited everything from the proposed Interpol. I intended to speak on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club about the process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft for the purposes of maintaining the Croatian Air Force. And that was the theme and my prepared speech. However, given that the Prime Minister introduced all those arguments indicating the transparency and legality of the government's conduct, thus rejecting any responsibility of the Government and the Ministry of Defence, which made it clear that no damage had been done to the international reputation of Croatia, which made it clear that there was no cost nor budget, nor to the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, I will direct my address on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club in one other direction. Namely, I will try to remove those populist, opposition allegations and the untrue allegations of 16 council members of the Social Democratic Party and I will say very clearly. That this Interpellation is about the attempt of 16 representatives of one party, I will not say that it is in ruins, but whose rating is in the middle of the term of office at a historic low rating since SDP records its political weight in the Croatian political public space and such 16 council members trying to seek the responsibility of the government, which in the 3rd year of their term and the party leading it as the main base records almost 30% of Croatian citizens' ratings, which has been also unmarked in the newer Croatian state that the ruling party in half of its mandate records its 30% support for the Croatian citizens. And why is that? This is because this Croatian government manages to make Croatia better today in its 3rd year of office than Croatia was when the government took responsibility for leading Croatia, so I will show in several indicators why Croatia is better today, why the better it is, why because the better it is, the HDZ as a party which is the basis of that same government notes a double rating from a party whose 16 MPs have failed to seek responsibility where this responsibility does not exist and I will immediately say that this interpretation will go the same way as the past and the past two interruptions that the same group sought towards the government of the Republic and as the 6 requests for the recall of ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia have failed. So, in the past 2.5 years since this government took responsibility for Croatia's leadership, Croatia has recorded excellent macroeconomic indicators of almost 3% of GDP growth at the annual level. At the same time, a number of reforms among which I will first single out tax reform at the annual level, Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs have been released for 7 billion kuna and at the same time because of the fact that we have disbursed Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs for 7 billion kunas, we are recording the growth or surplus of the state budget to the extent that one situation for which this government is not responsible and I recall, this year, due to the protested guarantees given to the Uljanica Government whose 16 representatives and members and members of the party today seek the responsibility of the government, without any problem, without further borrowing, has resolved from the state budget nearly 3 billion kuna commitments resulting from negligence, the irresponsibility of the government whose I say, mainly, are now seeking this interpretation of the government's responsibility of one transparent and legal procedure. Not to say that in those 3 years, the average salary grew 710 kn, that pension growth was over 6.5%, that it was increased by 20% minimum wage, that VAT was reduced to energy, that there were 3 record tourist seasons in that time, that the historical number of unemployed, registered unemployed persons in Croatia, that the number of employees was growing, that GDP growth in Croatia was among the countries' highest growth among the EU Member States. Why am I saying this? I'm only saying this for a reason to show that this fact that this government is a successful indicator and such a rating of HDZ. When we talk about other circumstances, I will, in part, return to the scale of this interpretation. It is the fact that today SDP or SDP representatives are casting crocodile tears because it is not a real job for the purchase of multi-purpose combat planes in the fact that they were in the beginning against the acquisition of such multi-purpose combat planes and that that is not how I make it up, I will remind you that on 3 December of last year, 2018, we brought the state budget and that SDP representatives and other opposition MPs, as far as they believed and how much they wanted multi-purpose combat planes to be purchased, no more than their amendments to the Ministry of Defence budget asked to be removed, removed from the position of the Ministry of Defence 2 billion and 316 million kn. And only, beware, alone in the position of obtaining multi-purpose fighter planes where 360 million kunas, SDP amendments and other opposition parties were secured and planned in the budget for this year, were asked for billions and 316 million kunas. Now you can imagine how many gentlemen who seek responsibility for not getting the planes really had a wish, the attitude of the Croatian state to keep the Air Force. This is best said by the fact that for every amendment they've invested, they've asked for money to be taken off the supply point of multi-purpose combat planes. Therefore, today when I listen to tears, unfortunately for not being ordered, obtained and not being completed, I said, it reminds me of the crocodile tears of our SDP colleagues due to the fact that this job has not been completed as planned. I will repeat what the Prime Minister said, so this is not about responsibility or the Ministry of Defence or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. What is less important is what I am talking about, it is much more important that the two countries that were in the process were an associate of Croatia in the procurement of multi-purpose combat planes, about what the representative of the state of Israel said when he came to Zagreb, when he almost apologized that the state of Israel was unable to obtain the final approval of the United States that the Republic of Israel could buy and complete combat planes on the one hand, and on the other hand the US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia Robert Kohorst clearly said that Croatia remains a strategic partner of the United States, that this is not the least endangered co-operation between these countries and the United States remains interested in obtaining multi-purpose fighter aircraft by the Republic of Croatia. What is important to us in HDZ and what we support and what we will point out in the proposed conclusion by, when we vote on impellation, which is that we reject all the allegations from the interpretation on the one hand, and on the other hand we give full support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to keep the military Air Force in the Republic of Croatia. When he tries to muddle, according to his colleague, the coat of arms, politician Damir Krsticevic, then I will not talk about his war trip. His war route should be talked about and spoken to by those who know him very well, I can only talk about a politician if asked to talk about politician Damir Krsticevic. Dear gentlemen, look at what has been done in the defence ministry's portfolio since politician Damir Krsticevic took over the responsibility entrusted to him by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. In his term of office, the defence ministry's budget increased by more than one billion kuna, a national security strategy and a system of homeland security that has not been adopted for 20 years, which is what we are particularly proud of, the new operational deployment of the Croatian Army in Sinj, Vukovar, Varazdin and Ploče, we expect that this will happen in Pula. I will read: “According to the new amendments to the Law on Armed Forces, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Defence Minister have adopted new regulations that entered into force on 1 May 2018. New rules have been adopted for the purpose of improving material rights, standards, living conditions and the work of members of the Croatian Army. Members of the Croatian Army are entitled to a fee for work on the ground, 100 kn working day and 120 kn weekend and holiday, duty fee 85 kn working day and 100 kn weekend and holiday, security fee 100 kn work day and 120 kn weekend and holiday, which has not been the case so far. Compensation for voluntary handbooks to 3000 kn was increased, the Military Solidarity Foundation was established, the most complex military exercise since the end of the Homeland War, the Velebit 18 united force was successfully implemented. The Croatian Army is helping civil institutions in fundamental disasters, the Croatian Army's reserve is established, the development of capabilities and modernisation of the Croatian military over where and where the higher level is preserved, the values of the Homeland War have been restored, the solemn promotion of military schools in Vukovar, the Ministry of Defence, watch out, received the unconditional opinion of the State Audit, for the first time since 27. "This is Mr. Grbin and Mr. Bernardić, politician Damir Krstičević, and more than what I am talking about Damir Krstičević, I have warned you before, I do not know when you were last in some Croatian military and when you last spoke with some Croatian officer, officer and soldier and ask them not me, not politicians in HS, what politician Damir Krstičevićićić, so they will tell you what kind of Croatian politician Damir Krstičević, and I am much less interested in talking about the day of the Croatian Party, and the Croatian Party in the day of the club, and the Croatian Party, I will be talking of the Croatians, the Croatians, and I'll finish. So, this procedure was absolutely transparent, legitimate, with whom everyone in the Republic of Croatia should be familiar, by the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the competent parent working body whose head is Honored colleague Igor Dragovan. You've been through the Defense Committee since the first moment you met. More importantly, all this was transparent, about which the Croatian public was familiar. That the state that gave for the best money, the best offer, failed to obtain final approval from the third party, is not at it, is not responsible for this government, nor on the Deputy Prime Minister. Many times when you took part in the conclusion of a contract, the one who is the seller, who was obliged to provide a particular document and did not provide it, is not a liability to the buyer. The buyer had the best intention of taking it, and the seller’s failure to secure his relationship, responsibility lies with the seller, and in that sense the state of Israel made it clear. So, we're going to refuse this kind of interpretation at the MPs' club, all the interpretation allegations, and we're going to support the government. in an effort to keep the Croatian Air Force. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129188	Let's go now, first is the breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129189	Mr. President, I reported for the breach of the Rules of Procedure six minutes before Mr. Bačić's end of exposure because at that moment it was evident that he was speaking outside the subject of an article. 238th century 1. In fact, he was talking about a subject that's on the agenda, but not today, you're talking about impellation, about the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia to fail in the position of structural reforms, which is what we've proposed, we're waiting for this debate, but as he returned to the topic in the last four minutes, then I'm assessing that I was too strict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129190	This has now been a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure because today during the debate on this subject, especially from the president of your party, there have been talks about other things, I did not warn him, so I ask you not to do this, and you know what follows you. If this isn't la, this is just like tears, so one reminder for a colleague named Bauk. Let's now go to the motionary's exhibit, 5 minutes, dear colleague Matic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129191	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, ministers with associates, so it's very difficult for me to speak today, I've prepared in my own style a fierce speech, but when I look at my colleagues here on the bench, I've worked with them, I've worked with some friends, some have been my bosses, some have been my commanders and it's very difficult to speak, but I'll try to be as objective as I can because, let's just say what my colleague Bacic has been saying, it was the EPP HDZ's, but nothing on the subject is said. So, I'll be completely honest, and I'll try to be as correct as possible. So, the moment and time of the honorable departure are irrevocably behind us, there remains agony without end, political shoeing and making jokes and jokes about carrying out a possible new competition and some new roles, your roles of old roles in this. It is political responsibility, not criminal, not personal because Mr. Krsticevic is constantly calling for the military, but there has never been a question. I may be able to give some advice as to why the vice president and the minister did not resign because it was part of the political responsibility he had after this fiasco that happened with the acquisition of the plane, and then the prime minister should normally say that he did not accept that resignation, and maybe that way things would be a lot different. Is that who's to blame? There are circumstances, not knowledge, not understanding, coincidence, higher power of anything, perhaps Serbs, perhaps those who never wanted Croatia, all this is not important. It is important that in the biggest business action, the competition in Croatian history experienced the fiasco of millennium proportions and someone has to answer for it. Who? The main person. And there's nothing else there, the guy's excuses nothing left behind, nothing's lost for some election campaign because it's really just something that the faithful voters smoke, everyone else knows about the concepts of reputation, time, costs, travel, meetings, journals, counselors, food, drinks. That picture of the pretentious attack from the Storm that I don't even speak. I repeat, General, we never question your military merits, we never have, even though I say you insist on pointing them out, that was over 30 years ago and today you're a politician and that's the only thing that's going on. And now, that part that I'm going to skip now, and it's talking about something that's personal, you'd have a reason, I wanted to say you two came to the tent, you were kissing Djura Glogosky's ring, now that I see you, all six of you are coming into the tent and kissing the ring of Gyri Glogoski, but I'm not mad at you. I guess that's how it had to be. But what I want to say to some other old man at this last minute that I can, so don't be afraid of having good news for you, you can be calm and calm because tomorrow you can't get hurt in the vote. And for what? It used to be called for the occupation and domestic traitors, and today it's called only for traitors or chips as modernly called. I, for one, was called a traitor, a Yugoslav, a deserter, a Chetnik, but I am a stoic supporter of all such meales, outpourings of hatred. It's a good thing they didn't remember and call me a chip, because if they called me a chip, I'd kill myself right now. Of course, I don't advise these little chips here, and even if I were to advise them, I don't think there's any fear, they don't have the character to do it, because if they had not been harvested, they'd be proud human beings with their spine. And the HDZ message goes forward with this and this policy until even the last Croatian with disgust leaves this country. And for the end I can't resist, you can, Prime Minister, you can just say, you can do whatever you want, but only with us in Slavonia there's an extension of that proverb that says you can't as long as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129192	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129193	I thank you, Mr. President, dear colleague Matic Frede, and you were, don't be angry that I'm talking to you like this, and you were a minister, but during your work in the government of the Republic of Croatia, did you call on your previous war route or was your job as a minister separate from what you used to do. Have you responded to your past and to what you have done or to those who have chosen you and who have given you a responsible assignment in the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129194	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129195	Thank you very much, colleague Grbin, so I have been advised by my friends and have recently been advised, why I never mention my merits to you and I am the defender of Vukovar from Trpinska cesta, I have served 9 months in 3 conferences for this country, but when I took up politics, it is part of my history that has contributed to me that I can come to some of the positions I came to during my political career, but that was almost 30 years ago and that's one history, for me a proud history, but which is behind me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129196	Comrade Reiner, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129197	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, my colleague Matic, at first I thought that I would be the one to hurt the Rules of Procedure, because you were mostly talking about other things, not this topic. However, you have used great words, millenniumically, we have heard earlier about how the country’s safety is threatened by this, etc. Can you answer me one question? If that's true, if this topic is so important to you 16 people who have signed the application for Interpol, if it's so serious and so terrible and so big, how come you're not even half of the 16 in the assembly right now, and you were mostly under a third of those 16 that they signed, so I guess you don't care at all. but only because of this play. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129198	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129199	Thank you very much, that fellow Reiner, that you can really call it a miracle, but if someone calls for a miracle, HDZ is most often called in in this society for miracles and I agree but it doesn't need us to be 16 here I am here the 1 that I was just saying, I will respond to your replicas, and then the next colleagues will respond. So it's about getting $500 million, this is a small country that the minister himself said should take care of what our kids, our teachers, whether there's any drugs, whether there's any for teachers, whether there's any for cops, whether there's any for firefighters, and we're throwing 500 million dollars at each other. I repeat, it is political responsibility and if we want to be a country of the Western world, we are a full member of both the EU and NATO alliances, so we cannot mess with such things. We were in the departments responsible for the people who were getting the staples, so they messed up, they were carrying some kind of responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129200	Let's move on, colleague Jelkovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129201	Thank you, President, dear colleague Matic, for asking for the political responsibility of the minister even though you are aware that there is no guilt on the part of the Croatian government for this process that ended this way. I don't recall you also seeking the responsibility of your defence minister after the Mire 21 fiasco where it was found to be criminally responsible. Are you two-faced?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129202	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129203	So it's really phenomenal in this assembly that I've been listening to for years, so whatever happens, you justify with what happened before. So, as far as I'm concerned, if Kotromanovic is guilty, hang him, kill him, do whatever you want with him, do whatever you want with him, I'm the first, even though my friend, the first time I've ever had a responsibility, just as far as I've heard from him, and as far as I'm aware, he's just running a procedure to investigate this alleged irregularity about all of it, and as far as I'm concerned, don't get justice, so the thief he caught robbing the bank, he can say, so those who robbed the famous train robbery, nothing happened to them, so what you found me. Don't do that, let's change that more into HS. You've justified everything here with what the former government did even though we told you that here, just over Eastern Slavonia, a sound wall is breaking through, I guess not, as counterpart Bacic said... From the cariola, I guess it was some kind of plane. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But once again, I don't care, I really don't care, but we're talking about something concrete here, not this now, too. I repeat, my colleague Bačić is [[Intruder: Thank you]] Radio EPP, what HDZ did, what it plans to do. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129204	My colleague Vranesh, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129205	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleague, you are constantly angry about the warpath of Minister Krstičević, and I am your war route, I am sorry, I did not know him before, I just heard him when you were the minister of your presentation during your term, so it is not clear to me how you didn't talk about it, because I honestly only learned about him when you were minister. I just want to know if you're ashamed now that you've been through this job, to attack the current minister like this when you know the job and you leave the constant impression as if the minister clearly has no enemies and is constantly angry about the tents, because of the strikes, for everything else, and I think you should make a summary of what you've done and what Minister Krstičević has done and no such personal feelings you've brought to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129206	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129207	Dear fellow Members, whenever you are in the mood and have time, I will be able to tell you my war route and I will gladly tell it to you, although I said 30 years after the war, it is no longer important, I just said that Minister Krsticevic often uses that he was a warrior, that he was in war, that we all know, his merits we know, we worked together, I certainly know him better than you and I haven't questioned him for a moment. I'm only talking about the purchase of military planes, so, time back two years, and nothing about 91st, 92s, 95s and his merits until 2000s when he was in the Croatian Army. I don't understand the question at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129208	Comrade Glavasevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129209	Thank you, Mr. President. I just have to fix it for a while, Mr. Barać was certainly not in the tent, he was at Minister Kotromanović's, at the MORH at the time, so he was not in the tent, for the rest of us, some I know for sure that he was, for this gentleman in the middle I don't know, here, but Mr. Barac was not 100% in the tent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129210	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129211	Thank you, dear colleague Glavasevic, here's a chance to apologize to my colleague Barać, but I also told others who had visited and kissed Djura Glogosević's ring that I didn't blame them, so it was political to bring down the unnatural, communist, front-page power and it's totally ok, legitimately, HDZ had such a desire because whoever cut the election, the elections only come in a few years, if something can be broken, it's mostly HDZ speciality, if something can be broken by illegal means, why are they waiting for elections, and all of them, even here on this side of the assembly, there's no one who hasn't been and kissed the ring.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129212	Let's go now, colleague Ljubic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129213	Thank you. A fellow politician, Mr. Matic, your party, and you personally have no credibility to trouble yourself, so buying a plane, an alliance with Israel, the United States, because the United States of America is your government in which you were minister in 2013 warned that you were not remonting, you don't send planes to a non-NATO member in the country because you can't install, therefore, NATO compatible trans weights that are able to identify aircraft. And we got, therefore, planes with signed troops from Bulgaria, wings from Algeria, tanks from the Soviet Union, and today they're supposed to be three.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129214	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129215	Comrade Ljubic, I just responded to my colleague, who is sitting next to you right now. So, once again, what difference does it make, and I repeat, if there are any criminal, any responsibilities, kill everyone, including this side, including me, if I was involved in it right now, gladly, but today we're talking about a failed purchase of aircraft, a fiasco that happened and made this government, this minister, this Prime Minister and nothing else. So if he has responsibilities, here's mine, I'm ready right now, here's who Miro Bulj, you can tie me up and take me out, but don't with the history of justice, I don't have a time machine to go back to what Krsticevic did and any other fellow minister, but I can bear responsibility. I've been in camp, I'm not afraid of prison, unlike many, I can go tomorrow, jail is a premium, dear mother versus camp, so just give me a chance to leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129216	Comrade Culey, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129217	My friend Fred, this last one with a prison, I was going to say something else, but as far as the prison you were in, it's Valentine's Day, many of them haven't come back from Serbian living boxes, they've come broke, beaten up, and some have managed to fall in love with prison. But a joke aside. You as a great war expert who calls for his war and professional path, here I have given myself the effort, I have taken the book “Nothing False” and it says that you were a great warrior, and an article that says: “As we laughed, I felt that something of the oval touched me on the head, and at first I thought that it was probably some pigeon on the flight, just hoping for me, but I immediately rejected that possibility because no bird was in Vukovar. The top part was almost torn from a line made by a sniper's bullet." So you're talking about planes, and you don't know if it's a sniper or a sniper. It's a bird poop. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129218	Thank you. Comrade Culey, please don't treat you, and otherwise there have been cases here, we still respect each other, so I'm asking you to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129219	Yes, thank you, Mr. President, for protecting me, I once told my colleagues that I was paraphrasing us, the two of us weren't repairing the tanks in JNA together, I was destroying them, he was fixing them, my commander was Mild Zadar, his was Life Panic, called Žika Animal. But Mr. Culey, I talked to the priests and they said about the problem that you obviously have with me and you keep saying, he said, "Help the deprived and therefore, I will tell you in the spirit of the Gospel, dear Steve, this time I will tell you, dear Steve, God give you health and from my half."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129220	We've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I'm really appealing to you, we've got a solid debate all the time that we're not going down that level and you're not accusing each other like this, it's not level.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129221	Mr. President, everything's great and everything's fine, man. 238, he was not my commander of Life Panic and the other villains because, in 15.12.90, I joined the Croatian police, then the special police, then Plitvice, and finally with Dubrovnik, my colleague did not pull me out of the basement, the tapir and other crew like you and that petition of the Vukovar defenders who was against you from all those You didn't do any good... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129222	Thank you. Comrade Culey, this wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica, I'm giving you a warning, I beg you now, you want to give up, yes, okay. You're not gonna give up? Then go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129223	So once again, the 238th man is illiterate and it's all justifiable because anyone who comes to the election can enter HS. However, it's not nice to bring up lies, it's not nice that, therefore, I never objected to him as a servant of JNA, I worked with people who were in JNA, and I respected them because we needed such people, and we needed one to fix tanks, and I'm grateful for everything he did for JNA. which strengthened them [[Agreement: Collega Matić]] [[Come on, please.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129224	This is not also a violation of the Rules of Procedure, you are being warned, and I invite you all to return to the debate on what is today's subject, so let's not be incorrect on a personal level, and I say the same thing to you and my colleague Cule. Let's move on now, it's time for the esteemed colleague Glavasevic, please, on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129225	Thank you, Mr. President HS. In each debate, it is necessary to find a common ground, some starting point that everyone agrees on, that point in this debate could be said that the first attempt at obtaining multi-purpose combat planes is a major failure. What I believe we will not agree on is everyone's next, the failure is primarily the responsibility of Minister Krsticevic, and then with one military metaphor under the command responsibility of the Prime Minister as well. I believe that if Minister Krsticevic really has the honor he often speaks of, only because of the fact that this procurement that was his capital project and not only his, but also several previous governments, because of its failure, is due to resign. However, this is not just about the failure provided by the minister, in the process of procurement, the minister kept providing incorrect information and did so consciously. Furthermore, when faced with facts and denied, Minister Krsticevic, according to HS deputies, showed aggression to journalists and citizens, the hospitality and inability to control impulses for which he has never offered a hymn, and let alone an honest apology, again he has treated military rhetoric with dishonesty and therefore the minister should also resign. There is another reason why Minister Krsticevic should leave the government, it is clear that classified documents have been leaked from the MORH, there is doubt that they were released in public by the minister himself, but on the doubts and indications here we will not, it is still a job for some other institutions. However, if he did not release the document personally, the minister is responsible because it happened under his nose, in his house. This failure puts the national security of the Republic of Croatia at risk, and therefore, again, if there is an honour, the minister should resign for this reason, I say, if he has the honour. As far as the Prime Minister is concerned, the dilemma is next, whether he or not owned all relevant information on the safe and certain failure of the procurement process or was, but was consciously involved in disinformation of the public. If this is the first case, then it is certainly Minister Krstic's fault, which is why he should again seek his resignation. If this is the case, then I'm afraid that the Republic of Croatia has a much bigger problem and that the responsibility of its water leaders will have to look for another way, in that better case, in the elections, and in the worse, in the protests. Of course, there is another possibility, which is that the Prime Minister was simply not educated enough to interpret messages from Israel and the United States, as a career diplomat, did not simply have the skills to interpret them. In fact, the prime minister said in HS, I quote, "The American signals were not clear enough to me." This statement reveals that the United States was sending some signals, but that he, the prime minister, could not interpret them. So the question is, what should the United States do to make these signals clear enough and that the Prime Minister can interpret them? And the more important question is actually, what does it mean for the Republic of Croatia to have a prime minister, I say a career diplomat who has problems interpreting diplomatic signals? Who knows what other signals the Republic of Croatia receives, and the Prime Minister doesn't detect them. At the very end of the question, first of all for the prime minister, but also for all those who sit here and those who watch and listen, if the whole procurement process is guided as impeccably as we have listened to Minister Krstic's defence here, which is why the new competition does not approach in the same way? Why is the supply team expanding? If Minister Krsticevic did, I say, honorably and without error, why does the prime minister no longer allow him to buy the next one, so the next purchase of the plane leads on his own? After all, when the line is drawn, the current costs of several hundred thousand kuna remain damage to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, there remains doubts about the honesty, honor and ability of Minister and Prime Minister Plenkovic and that there remains another model of aircraft in anger thrown into the floor of the assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129226	I thank my esteemed colleague Glavasevic. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the esteemed colleague Bozo Petrov, is gone. On behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Lenart, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129227	Thank you, dear Vice President. I must admit it's already a little bit and agonizing about this pay phone after all these things that have been happening in the Republic of Croatia for the past few years. This whole story is a hoax of Croatian citizens like they're retarded, so they don't see what's going on. The prime minister said no financial damage, 400,000 kunas spent watching planes, people who have worked for two years and not so much money. However, two years have been lost time that cannot be returned and that is the greatest damage that has been done in this. Like any job, it is possible that this job has gone wrong because of these or those things, but in this case too much has gone wrong, too much has been ignored, too much has been blamed, denied, and the whole story is unfortunately not famously finished and as everything is used in this Republic to cloud water, so unfortunately this story, and on the other hand, some other things happen. The reasons why he was chosen by an Israeli F-16, 30-year-old plane, 30-year-old is very much, the Republic of Croatia doesn't exist for another 30 years, we bought a plane older than our country. Did we take that Israeli plane because of their special electronics? So I ask you what the Republic of Croatia on these few planes will serve special electronics in the event of a global conflict for such a small country or from the possible threat of some other neighbours. I no longer believe in the threat of the armed forces of some other neighbours because they know that we resisted them with hunting rifles, and in today's state of the Croatian Army I don't think they're thinking of reaching for Croatian territory. What about South Korea's offer where for 750 million dollars there were 16 new FA-50 planes, training, these are planes that, 300 of them ordered, ordered by the United States, had an American engine inside them, had Samsung's electronics inside them, certainly satisfying for the Republic of Croatia. But since I'm not an expert in this area, and I've read that some of our pilots have talked about it, I think that, in the experience of experts, this would probably be a good choice. But what the South Koreans offered much more means for the Republic of Croatia, that we are for Europe, through us enters those planes into Europe, that the Rijeka port is used to place goods in the EU if we buy planes from them, credit at 10 years from 3 years of start and 30% less operating costs for these planes than it is for F-16. I believe that the Republic of Croatia certainly does not need any better, and what South Korea has offered, which has not been written publicly, is probably much that would benefit the Croatian economy, economy and country from which 350 000 people, workers, working people, young people, who have taken their children abroad, and who will probably never return again while such an RH is and while the situation in this country is like this. Is that not worth anything to this government when, according to EU research, we are in the last places of all industrial production tables, we are among the most corrupt, only behind us may be Bulgaria, we have been overtaken by Romania. How far are we gonna go? How far are we going to sink? We were one of the most prospective future EU members, what are we today? This beautiful country with this many resources, with beautiful seas, with valuable and smart people, and even with the top soldiers we have, we are today a country in which poverty rules, in which people dig through containers, however, there are many new containers because they are trying to at least provide a lot of containers so that people can dig through them. But as I said before, our powers are driven in armored cars with protection, and I watch it every morning in Mandalica when two cars drive a certain person with four guards, so who are you people afraid of? Take a walk in Zagreb and see how people live without talking about Slavonia, about Lica and other areas far away from Zagreb. I am also concerned about those Croatian companies that have registered for the service of aircraft and spaceships. We have those in Croatia, where their employees will now practice, where they will specialize, whether it will make them lay off or we will buy such old planes again in one 2, 3 years and they will still be able to make money for their children. But, because of all the great affairs that have been going on in this country for the last few years, and the confirmation of that is that everything is going on, it's this very statement that you've been going through the media the other day, unfortunately, where you HDZ members have to sign, that neither the court nor the police will let you keep secrets unless the HDZ lets you do so. I didn't hear them sign in any state, I'm not even sure that in Sweden they'd have to sign. And this people continue to wave and paint with Ustashas, partisans, Chetniks, white and black devils, and I don't know what else. People who get a little hungry, you sell them failed ideologies and false threats stories, you show young people how to be bullys, which we witness every day more and more on the streets of big cities. I'm asking if anyone 23 is a Chetnik or a Ustasha. From where, man doesn't even know about it. Our children have no idea what Tito is, who are the Ustasha, they have no interest in it at all. They're on cell phones all the time, doing other things. And if you hadn't mentioned that to them within 2.3 years, you wouldn't have heard of such nonsense. Yes, I am concerned in this country, about the threat that threatens in a quiet way, where neither planes nor Croatian guns nor Croatian guns help, and this is the quiet takeover of Croatian companies, the best Croatian companies, with the help of the government and government, or at least some of the government. INA, Agrokor, gone ironworks, 33,000 hectares, the highest quality agricultural land in Slavonia and Baranja, we give the company icele, which has only one shareholder but we don't know who it is. At least we can't know. Maybe you do. I'm worried about drinking water sources, which we'll also give, i.e. Some who have the power of those who won't let us drink water tomorrow. What we will have from Croatia, the flag, the anthem, is that enough. Well, we were state-of-the-art, with a lot of good companies, with a lot of good-quality people, we narrowed it down to what? The orphanage and the patriots. Any fool can put his hand on his heart today when he insinuates the anthem, but there are few quiet ones who hold hands on his heart during the intonation of the hyenas, and they are real patriots and they really fight and love Croatia. Unfortunately, the vast majority are just chips, which support everything that has been happening in this country in these 28 years, from the great privatisation, which has been done regardless of who has done it, since the rejection of schooling, science, all the people who have succeeded, have succeeded only when they left Croatia, because they were not strangled by this government, Croatia, have not been strangled by those who do not want the Croatian people, to be written, to be educated. And our athletes, the other day I talked about it, became the best athletes, only after they went out and left. The honor of exceptions, which have also succeeded in these conditions, to repel all of this, to become top athletes to celebrate the Republic of Croatia. And for the end of a country called Absurdistan, a situation similar to that in Croatia took place, planes were purchased, aircraft purchase failed, says the Prime Minister's prime minister, the good minister you did, now he points out what. Well, it's a good thing you didn't buy invisible planes and we wouldn't have a problem like we have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129228	I thank my colleague Lenart, I would kindly ask you to adapt your dictionary to this High House and to those metaphors that you use to demean me in any way and not insult me. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Irena Petrijevcanin Vukasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129229	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 232. The speaker can only talk about what is being discussed and according to the established agenda, we have all witnessed that most of his debate was about something that is not the subject of today’s debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129230	I thank my colleague Irene, I do not think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured, although one part of the debate, a colleague spoke out of the question, as well as all other MPs, so I believe that he has not been injured by the Rules of Procedure, we are moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP esteemed colleague Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129231	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable Deputy Prime Minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. We at the SDP Club have in principle supported retaining knowledge of combat aviation within the Croatian Air Force. In principle, we held the purchase of multi-purpose fighter aircraft. The concrete implementation of the tender procedure, as well as the concrete selection of offers, was the responsibility of the government of the Republic of Croatia, and in the first order of the Ministry of Defence and the head of the Ministry of Defence, Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Damir Krstičević, and the team he chose who led the whole procedure and carried out the evaluation again. There are also some controversys about the team because, according to Prime Minister and Vice President Krstic, it is made up of people from the MORH, but every few experts appear on the side, for example. Mr Kolak, who was also in front of the Defence Committee as part of the MORH team when he was a project and was not an employee of the MORH. So very clearly, the SDP had no influence on the choice of concrete offers and the impact was on the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament, because the Committee had only in principle given the consent or prior opinion to obtain multi-purpose fighter aircraft. The choice of a concrete offer is on a proposal from the MORH to the Defence Council, which makes a recommendation to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which makes the final decision. I'm taking this out for the public to make it clear to everyone how this system actually works. Obviously, there was a short circuit in the system, so now we have the result we have. And what short date could it have come to? First, we have not clearly set the objectives of the competition. Yes, we wanted to get multi-purpose combat planes, but we wanted to get economic cooperation, new strategic partners, strengthen agriculture, so I'm counting what government officials and Deputy Prime Minister Krsticevic were saying those days. In the general sound system in the end, it became unclear to the whole public what we are actually buying, whether we are buying strategic partners, whether we are buying economic cooperation or still buying multi-purpose combat aircraft. Secondly, are we clear warnings by the manufacturers themselves that the purchase can be made that they intend to strengthen the Croatian Air Force strongly support but under clear and unequivocal conditions. And clear and unequivocal conditions are shortened all equipment that does not have an American production address goes down from the plane and only such an original plane can be surrendered and be the subject of purchase. At those demands, the head man of the Moreh and the government disobeyed and pretended that if you didn't see something, then it didn't happen. And it happened. The whole correspondence took place, in part formal, in part informally between the MORH and state institutions and companies from the United States. No one has denied that correspondence until today, no matter what we think of publishing that file in public journals, which is a story to ourselves. It's already trying to pack under an informal thing by creating in public a question of whether it's a non-paper or a white paper as if it's crucial and it's crucial what it says in those documents and what it says. It is crucial that it was very clear that the transfer of the aircraft could happen but in short, under the conditions that I mentioned earlier. By the end of 2017 and last year, several such documents were delivered to the institutions of this country that dealt with the problem of buying fighter aircraft, not to mention, were listed by colleagues. The result was that the government did exactly the opposite of these tips and these documents. Third, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and Mr Krstičević's defence minister claimed in September 2017 that we have a U.S. government document that Israel can offer the aircraft we need and that it can sell the Republic of Croatia by calling for prior approval from the US side. The fact is, the situation is next. We could have picked those planes, we could have paid for them, but we couldn't just take them over and we couldn't take them because there was no permission to transfer to a third party that's an important part of the whole job and that's betraying, as you know, the U.S. Congress and the State Department's proposal. It is thus very clear that it is not true that nothing has ever been disputed on the American side, the US ambassador himself has disproved the thesis by saying that he has been warning problems over the purchase of Israeli aircraft for two years now. The fourth is the government's claim in response to the interpretation that there is no damage to Croatia's international reputation because it is not written in either the US or Israel. The government has completely ignored the fact that all those dealing with defense issues in the world are very much monitoring what is going on around such a big deal as buying a plane. The date of the original documents and correspondence that took place in connection with this acquisition is an unprecedented disgrace. The procurement needs to be transparent and that's what we stand for, this one wasn't. But the memos and e-mails that individual officials received from various institutions and other states certainly shouldn't be in public. The fifth thesis is to take the government's business with the government where the fact itself is a guarantee. If we had accepted the possibility and needs instead of an exclusive attitude and we in the SDP would have said a commitment to such a big deal, seeking a serious bank guarantee for the good execution of the offer, perhaps the outcome of this deal would have been quite different to obtaining multi-purpose fighter aircraft. Perhaps some offers that were obviously not complete and some offers that took valuable time away from us in the process would have fallen off. Maybe it would have happened in the first step so we'd have a completely different choice in front of us. Today, they would not talk about the failure of the job and as an oxymoron of the Israeli offer as the best, would already talk about the new multi-purpose combat planes that Croatia has acquired and how they will affect the protection of the Croatian sky, strengthening Croatian Air Force, strengthening the Croatian military as a whole, as well as our strategic position in the NATO alliance within the EU and so on. We did not ask for this bank guarantee for a good execution of the offer, although from Croatian producers with whom you signed new contracts the other day, we regularly ask for it in not so little amount. The sixth, it is not true that there was no cost of obtaining multi-purpose fighter aircraft, there were recognised costs up to now 600,000 kn, and where the resources that we spent two years working through, where time was lost, where time would not like to be a wicked prophet, could be irreparable for Croatian Air Force, and probably have some hidden costs. Finally, we cannot and do not want to accept the thesis that someone else can be responsible for the moves and decisions made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The state of Israel did not decide to buy multi-purpose fighter aircraft from Israel, nor did the state of Israel choose which offer the Republic of Israel was optimal. The government of the Republic of Croatia did it. The government of the Republic of Croatia has decided that the most favourable and best offer from the state of Israel is to buy multi-purpose fighter aircraft. This decision was obviously unprepared without serious and necessary documentation, obviously and without the influence of diplomacy and the precondition for the failure of the acquisition of multi-purpose combat aircraft. The State of Israel, for its part, may be responsible for not obtaining a third-party transfer permit, a famous TPT, but the ruling of the Government of the Republic of Israel on the selection of Israel's offer and before obtaining that document which is crucial, is hastening and is the cause of the collapse of the whole business. The government of the Republic of Croatia is responsible for the decisions it makes, and that is the case. And what happened after the decision was made? That's where we can agree, you couldn't really influence it, but the decision itself was wrong, we warned about it then, and now there's nothing left for us but for you gentlemen to demand political responsibility. For all the above, the SDP Club will support all the conclusions proposed in the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129232	I thank my esteemed colleague Frank Vidovic. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Defence Minister Damir Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129233	Dear Vice-President HS, honourable parliamentary representatives and MPs, regarding the presentation of the position of the SDP Club and the representative of Mr Frank Vidovic, I would like to say, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has led this very complex process systematically, leading exclusively to Croatian national interests in accordance with the Law on Defence and the Law on Public Procurement. The selection procedure for a multi-purpose combat aircraft was carried out extremely transparently with clear criteria and equal conditions for all interested parties. It is important to stress that none of the countries that submitted the offer have complained about the process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft. Since the beginning of the procurement process, a multi-purpose combat plane has been involved, and already at the beginning of the process, before we started the process, 5.7.2017., see, there is the chairman of the Assembly Defence Committee, Mr. Dragovan, you know that we invited you, that we have introduced you to the entire methodology and dynamics of the process and as we know, the entire committee has given consent to the complete process. So I repeat, before we officially begin the process. And what's the same key, throughout the process, after the conclusion of the expert group's evaluation and giving, again we gave our Mother's Committee, the Assembly's Defence Committee, the complete documentation 4 days before we started the decision-making process at the state level, and we know 4 days, the whole paperwork, all the papers, all the documents were in this HS, in the Parliament's Defence Committee and on the 14th was that meeting, the first step when the same complete consent for that election was obtained. I would like to point out that the offer of the state of Israel amounted to 475 million US dollars, the Greek bid was EUR 171 million, the costs were not defined, the planes were not modernised, the Kingdom of Sweden's bid amounted to EUR 933 million, with an estimate of the other costs of one billion and the basic... The U.S. was a billion and $553 million, excluding the cost of arms and training, and it was not possible to estimate the total cost. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as we have seen, the state of Israel had the sole responsibility to provide final approval, they came to Zagreb and said they can't ensure it and as far as the Republic of Croatia is concerned, I repeat, we did everything right, we asked all the necessary questions, we got all the necessary guarantees, but you saw, as the American ambassador once said in the negotiations and you failed to close these negotiations until the end and that's the only truth about this whole case. I repeat, no financial commitments have been made to the budget and I believe no harm has been done. And as for the guarantee, there's no greater guarantee than the government. And that is why this government has insisted on government with government and, as we see, the state of Israel has given these guarantees as a state, but we see that they failed later. As for lost time, I believe that the most time lost for 15 years when nothing was going on in this matter, nothing was going on. And as for this lost time, I believe that we are in the process, this is the first time, the Croatian state has never bought a plane, that we certainly learned a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129234	I thank the honourable Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Defence, Mr Krstičević. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129235	Thank you, dear Vice President. So, Deputy Prime Minister, you've denied me in any segment of this matter. You claim that the parent defense committee has been involved since the beginning. So by virtue of the Law on Defence of Article 6(2), the Defence Committee gives prior consent, no more than that, no less. So you come in with a request that the MORH estimate that you need 10 submarines and the Defense Committee will show up on this. Nothing more and nothing less. So that's the role of the board in the whole situation. As for all the other things and the work of the state with the state. And now it's more clear to me that because of such an exclusive attitude, there's been a problem. You have the right to your position, I don't doubt it. But I think that attitude is deeply wrong for you, and we should have asked for bank guarantees and it would have proved that those countries that can't meet their offer to give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129236	I thank my esteemed colleague Frank Vidovic. Minister Krsticevic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129237	Dear Parliamentarian. So we've just been looking and we've got meaning in the first step at that meeting where you've been and where the whole board was that part of the approval that you need. And you know the intensive constituency board, the parent defense committee. There's the president of the parliamentary committee involved in the whole dynamic process. Before the competition started and all the time, the Assembly Committee for Defence was informed and gave absolute support to the project. Once again, the guarantee of the state has taken over for you. Now I could ask you the same question right now in that "mix-21" remont, you see when you're not working with the states, when you're dealing with companies, you see how much trouble we have with that "mix-remont" thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129238	I thank the Honorable Minister. We're moving on to the next replica of the esteemed colleague of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129239	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if the procedure was transparent, why don't we even know today who the team was leading it? Dear Vice-President, if the procedure was transparent, why do you claim that only the people of the MORH participated in the team and now we have heard from fellow Vidovic that there was a person on the board with you who is not an employee of the MORH. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if the procedure was transparent, why did you first claim that there was no cost after the cost of $400,000, then 600 thousand kuna? How did you start in a few days? That cost is going to be a few million kunas. And finally, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, if the procedure was transparent, why in March 2017, when you returned from your trip to Israel, did you practically announce that we were going to buy Israeli planes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129240	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague, Peggy Grbino. The reply of the respected minister Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129241	This procedure was extremely transparent, we had an international tender of 5 countries had the opportunity to report and the countries came forward and the expert group chose that offer that was the best, most complete and which was legally valid. And as for the team of people who participated in the competition, they were top experts, pilots, people that Croatia has, and I think that the boys throughout the process were very thorough, systematic and responsible in running this process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129242	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129243	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister Krstičević. You knew throughout the process that American planes, or no country that was a NATO member, had American aircraft with Israeli upgrades. So that's what you're supposed to get consent for. Why didn't you decide in the most normal form to ask the U.S. Secretary of State for consent, get consent, and then the matter would be very simple, very clean and not discuss who was there where he was wrong or wrong? You knew you'd have to have it, you knew you'd have to have it in the end. Why didn't you decide at one hour of procedure to come to this agreement and finish the story? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129244	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129245	Dear Parliamentarians, we knew everything but you must know the whole procedure that is related to the sale of American equipment. The first step right now gave the state of Israel a pre-approval for the transfer of technical data in the given configuration of the Republic of Croatia. Without that paper, the state of Israel could not participate at all. They couldn't answer, and that's the procedure. Later when we decided that the best offer of the state is Israel, then the second step is that the one who got the job, that based on our decision should be requested and the final approval should be obtained. And they did, but you saw in the last step that they did not ensure that they came to Croatia, that they apologized and that they said it was not Croatia's responsibility. And Croatia could not influence the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129246	I would like to thank the ministers, the next replica of the esteemed colleague, Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129247	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Assembly, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, for putting things in place. Therefore, the Parliamentary Defence Committee did not take part in the selection of tenders that arrived after the competition was announced. The Parliament's Defence Committee has only given its opinion that the Croatian Army should retain its capacity as a military air force. And in that sense, you were given the prior consent to proceed in the process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft, so you can't transfer responsibility to the Parliamentary Defence Committee, since it has not led in any way, it led the government to lead with the Ministry of Defence. Now I'm asking you, do you think the job of getting a multi-purpose combat plane is successful, successful or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129248	Thank you, Minister Krstičević's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129249	Your Honorary MP, first of all, you are a member of the Parliamentary Defence Committee, and it is clear that the Parliamentary Committee is not the one who made the decision. The decision concerning the best offer was made by the expert commission and it made the decision. But when that decision was made then we went to the decision-making process at the state level and the first step in that process was to go to our parent committee, to go to the Parliamentary Defence Committee. And all of you MPs and positions and opposition, the expert group has met and, beyond that, has given a unanimous opinion on the choice and that decision. That's the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129250	I would like to thank the minister, the next replica of dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129251	I thank you, Ministers of Three Things I would like to stress here, Mr Vidovic clearly said here that this procedure towards the Defence Committee was more transparent than the law requires. It means that you have directed the board and more than what the law requires of you, and the fact is that the board and members of the SDP, and one part of them praised that whole process, that they considered it transparent and had no examples, the other part of the SDP members felt that we didn't need them at all, that we didn't need to get the aircraft at all. And the other thing that's going on here is that you said there was no cost, you said there was no damage, and the cost of a transparent procedure is no harm, so please explain what it means when it's being saved on transparency and what the process was with moments 21.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129252	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129253	Thank you for the question, precisely in this process, I believe that Croatia has strengthened relations with the state of Israel, you have seen that part of the cost of 395.000 kuna, it refers to part of the trip of the expert group to prepare the contract, but it also relates to the development and improvement of cooperation with the state of Israel. From the process based on experiences now this year for the first time, the Croatian Army is given a command for cyberspace. From this process, the Croatian Army for the first time receives a centre for free systems, so these are the concrete results of this trip and these visits other than the preparation of the contract. That's the situation, and as far as our relationship with the United States is concerned, as defence minister, and twice I was in the Pentagon, so beyond that, Minister Mathis's arrival, so imagine that These relationships were such that there were no such visits. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129254	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply, the next replica of the esteemed colleague, Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129255	Dear Ministers Krstičević, oil workers demand as much as 5 salaries, for September, October and November pay, and for December and January the entire salary. These workers are literally starving, and the same fate could happen in other shipyards, at the same time you decide to give as much as 2.9 billion kuna for the purchase of military planes that we don't need. I have a question for you. Are you ashamed that during a time of this crisis in Croatia, a breakdown of industrial production, a breakdown of agricultural production and the escape of people from the country, you spend so much money on those planes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129256	I would like to thank my colleague Pernar, Minister Krstičević's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129257	Well to me, here's a pretty good question. I'm surprised. Here's Mr. Pedja Grbin, the MP from Pula, from that constituency, to spend all his time on planes, and not to waste his time on those people and those wages in Uljanika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129258	I would like to thank the minister for his reply, the next replica of the esteemed colleague, Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129259	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, dear Minister Krstičević's Interpelation, which they brought in is extremely unserious, and I think it is so unserious that we are wasting time because of this, I ask colleagues on the left, if the state of Israel has sent its representatives to apologize to the state of Croatia for the failure of the contract, I believe that they too have confirmed the honesty of the Croatian state according to the work they were doing. I'm asking you now that you mentioned the Oilman, which cost the country 4.5 billion, that we didn't, who signed those guarantees, that we didn't sign it, today, we could pay for those planes. Thus, they did not ask a question and went out to examine who was doing it. How much does it cost the citizens?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129260	I thank my esteemed colleague, Mišic, answer, my colleague Krstičević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129261	... MP Misic asked a good question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You see how many guarantees the state has to give for the Oilman, where there's someone responsible for these processes? Who's responsible? And on the other hand, we see this squadron that is important for Croatian security, for future generations, how much it costs. And now how much time we spend on something, where there are no financial obligations, where there is no cost, where even today we are not talking about the situation in the Croatian Air Force. And how responsibly all together to see, that process and to bring that modernisation to an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129262	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129263	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Misic said, quote, so he's hurt. In 238, he said I quote, I ask my colleagues on the left, and he has raised the replica of Minister Krstičević. So if he asks his colleagues on the left, then he couldn't lift the minister's line, you should have warned him, you understand?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129264	I thank my colleague Maras, you're partly right about that, but my colleague Misic is like all of you in the assembly, using all sorts of skills, locks, metaphors, so I guess he looked up to you personally, so I don't think there was any damage to his rules of procedure. We continue with work, next replica, respected colleague Predrag Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129265	Thank you very much, Vice President, Minister with Associates. So if we take it today we listen to it all day long, that it's all true, the fact remains that the job has failed and no one is responsible for you. That's what people would say if an analysis was done as soon as possible of the donkey wolf. And given the number of debates reported, this debate will take a long time, until early morning, and my proposal would be joint, since we all hold the same positions, the government and the minister are not guilty, we think they are, that we leave it all for tomorrow, for the vote, and that the chips decide, and that we now get together nicely and go home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129266	I thank the minister's answer for nothing. Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129267	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, as you said on May 24th, you formed and made a decision on an expert team to prepare for the purchase of multi-purpose combat aircraft. On July 5th, the defence ministry expert team presented everything he had done at the Croatian Defence Committee Assembly. On 14 December, the Defence Committee also presented everything that was achieved with a professional study, with all the parameters that were obtained, with all the bidders who came and I don't know what the problem was when it came to transparency, when we knew everything, when 2000 pages were delivered to the Defence Committee, if we were to see transparently what was going on, what offers had come and what was on the scene. I believe that this attack on the government, as well as on your defence ministers, was absolutely transparently carried out, all of it should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129268	Comrade Djakic, I thank you for your time. The next replica, respected counterpart Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129269	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have raised this replica to tell you that in vain all your arguments and all the facts and all the transparent public procurement we are talking about here. For one reason, because there is no responsibility for the spoken word in the Croatian Parliament. Because if there was, this debate would look different, and this is most likely to show a colleague from the SDP who is head of the Defence Committee and who showed his word today. We know that no one in the Defence Committee has been abstentioned, let alone against, and today the debate is completely the opposite. Because if it were seriousness and responsibility, then this debate would be different and I believe you see it from this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129270	I thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129271	Dear Minister Krstičevic, it's a good thing you finally stopped by, because first you've been kicking for 3.5 hours and my question is, if you're right, what are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Why haven't you answered any questions so far, but your lawyer should have been Andrej Plenkovic, who also hasn't answered any questions. You might be afraid to leave some new e-mails, like they did in the borg affair, or in the plane affair, are you afraid to come out with some e-mails about INA, ask you, answer our question, why did you lie? You knew everything, and you deceived the Defense Committee, gave you consent, why did you lie? Why did your former firm reregister for the service of the plane? Why is the price that is 3 times higher, i.e. Three times smaller, came before the American Congress than the price at which we in Istria buy planes. And who was dealing secret and classified documents from the Department of Defense? Answer those questions?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129272	I thank you for your response, dear Minister Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129273	Dear Parliamentarian, do you really think I'm afraid of you? You scared the shit out of me. I won't be able to sleep. You're such a big aviation expert now, maybe better than advertising cabbage, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129274	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129275	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Krsticevic, I have actually come to realize from your answers that the state of Israel has somehow deceived this job and the Republic of Croatia. So, of course, they're happy if there's no damage to that. I think it's very important that in this way and strengthen relations and other things, I'd ask you, Mr. Minister, when they flew over Knin, at whose expense they were flying, those same planes that we were supposed to have here with us? What's important, what I'm saying is, we don't have any need, we're talking here in HS, it's a serious situation, it's a serious procurement, so there's no need for any of the MPs to answer like you just did, you're seeing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129276	Thank you. On behalf of the applicant representative, dear colleague Franco Vidovic, please. Still, my colleague Bernardic, here you go. Comrade Shuker, please don't help me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129277	Dear Vice President HS, thank you for your objectivity. What we've heard in these insolent attempts to defend this business, we've heard every excuse, but mostly we've heard nonsense. And the biggest nonsense we've actually heard is that the failure of the F-16 purchase is that some old moments are to blame, so please don't deceive the public with such nonsense, but answer the specific questions that people have asked you here. Why did you lie? You had all the documents, you had the U.S. Ambassador's warnings, you had the official embassy warnings, why you lied, you had that procedure, that's the first question I'm expecting an answer to. Why did you endanger the combat preparedness of the Republic of Croatia to defend itself from the air, why did you do it? Why did you insist on getting those very planes? What was so special about those planes, you were just trying to get those planes? And why were those planes three times more expensive than those planes, than the price of the planes that came before the American Congress? What was the interest in that, so give us an explanation? And colleague Vranjš, or whatever the name is, why is your firm ex-wife and that's my question, has she reregistered for the maintenance and service of the aircraft, answer us, for what reason, why did that happen? Why is Plenkovic running away from the answer? Why didn't a man answer any of the only questions here, but he started talking about cabbage, otherwise your mouth is full of cabbage because you don't know how to say anything better, but listen to me now, better promote Croatian products than rob the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129278	We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129279	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Bernardich, you're constantly insulting and demeaning, and it's not true that we said that the moments are old because of the failed acquisition of F-16. The MiGs are an incentive for tendering and for obtaining documentation to buy new ones because they are grounded, failed remont, a criminal store with your employees and the minister at the helm have contributed to the fact that the moments are grounded, the moments cannot fly, because counterfeited corpses, replaced with Yemeni, printed books and numbers, have been admitted to receiving bribes and you are talking about something, so I don't know how you're not ashamed to call you a minister, Prime Minister liars when you're alone caught with your fingers in a jam and an employee of the ministry has admitted to receiving 10,000 euro bribes. The rest of them, the rest of them. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Under the auspices of the Attorney's Office and the SCOTT. [[Intruder: Col. Djakić]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129280	Comrade Djakic, thank you. Answer, dear colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129281	Dear Djakić, we will open another very important topic, you were in the Croatian Defence Fund, when the majority package is i.e. The management package belongs to MOL, and I'm curious if you've made a decision to go to the Croatian Defence Fund where you sat on the board, during Sanader's term of office, to the Hungarians? Have you made a decision? So you made a decision. And now that Goran Maric, your government colleague, HDZ Minister of State Property, says that whoever allows Hungarians to take over the INA should feel like a national traitor, my question to you, do you share that attitude and the words of your minister, your colleague Maric? Do you feel like a fellow Djakic as a national traitor?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129282	Thank you. My colleague Bernardić and my colleague Djakić and all respected colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you to take a good look at the agenda point now and stick to the agenda theme, not to go back to the past on some other topics, and I would really ask you to keep an eye on it. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear fellow Uncle, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129283	Thank you, Vice President. He was injured in 238, so his colleague Bernardic is talking about a subject that is not, not 238 which we are not discussing now, talks about the Croatian Defence Fund, and the topic is the procurement of fighter aircraft and I ask you to give him a warning. [[Break president: Please don't throw your colleagues, don't throw him]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129284	I thank my fellow Uncle, I would ask you nicely to listen a little bit better and more carefully to what I'm saying, and then we wouldn't need to hurt the Rules of Procedure. And don't waste all our time in vain. We have another violation of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129285	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Article 238 has been injured by insulting and disdaining MPs and calling a national traitor is really not the place in this assembly. I think if someone can be identified in such words that they must be the ones who landed the Croatian moments, who brought them into the trucks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129286	Thank you, dear colleague Djakic. I agree with you that some words are not appropriate in this House of Commons. But I also think that my colleague Bernardic didn't think of you for sure because you are still a prominent member of the defence population. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. We're moving on with our work. Next replica, respected counterpart Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129287	Thank you very much. Comrade Bernardić, we are a little bit surprised today when your colleague Grbin said that the bribe that was given meant in the process of remonting the flashes is actually a transparency that should be worshipped, if I understood it well and that it was much better than what the government wrote here from date to date, from every paper to every paper and that is actually what should be done when it would want to get some planes. As for the expenses. Here, just a few trips of yours... from the SDP at a time when they could make decisions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A colleague of Maras 100 thousand Las Vegas to go to the casinos. Mr. Jacobine, he was forced by the oar in Bali to spend 150 thousand kuna. A minister wouldn't wait for tomorrow's flight of $60,000. And when the former prime minister wanted to greet Maura in their language, it cost us 350,000 kuna. Here's what a man can say about that and your stories, and what did that contribute to? [[Intruding Brkić: Thank you, dear.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129288	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Comrade Boric, I asked that we stick to the subject and not go back to the past. What you were saying has nothing to do with the topic of the agenda but here I hope that in response to the replica of my colleague Bernardić will return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129289	Well, thank you very much. Speaking of topics, I'm not going on your trips to Las Vegas, so you just know how you guys had your time there. And as for the theme of moments, here's what I'm going to say, as Ivan Selak said, it's a respected, retired military pilot, a hero of the Croatian Army, one of our best airmen. So Air policing costs. So the protection of the sky costs, annually it would cost Croatia 30 to 40 million dollars. We, with a remont to keep the fighting ability, paid $13 million. That means we saved six times in six years. And you must address your Minister Krstičević where on the official pages of the Ministry of War Air Force it is said that the moments are still flying. So I guess you trust the hero of the Croatian Army and the Homeland War, not those who may have gone on a break now to drink the iron.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129290	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic. The next replica of fellow respected Professor Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129291	My colleague Bernardić, I will not descend to your level that you use terms every time you say "you are lying, you are" etc., because I do not think it is appropriate in this Croatian Assembly. But I'm going to ask you if you've read this interpretation that reads in it, so it says there among other things, a series of questions that the Republic, in non-paper, would ask a series of questions that the Republic should ask Israel and Greece. Possible captainship of the whole supply work of Israeli or Greek users etc.. So this is obviously about the previous consent that you interpreted in this document as not being able to realise this contract. So why do you deceive the public? You got the answer that it's not four times the cost of a plane, you got the answer why, when and who can license planes and cheat again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129292	Comrade Tudjman, thank you. Answer, dear fellow Bernardic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129293	Col. Tudjman, so this is a simple process in which the US Embassy sent a very clear protocol on the purchase of aircraft where details were written, where they warned that the procurement process with the equipment that Israel has on F16 Barak would not be possible to implement. And yet it went on to purchase these very fighter aircraft, as Israel will handle it. My question is why we didn't hear that, too. Why did you go to buy those very planes, just for that amount? Right with that equipment, right from the Israelis, just in spite of the warnings, right with the company that reregistered for some activity? Look, there's a whole series of indications here. You have to answer why, I was just asking questions. I didn't get a single answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129294	I thank my esteemed colleague Bernardic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129295	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague, you've been performing all day off the platform why you're lying and repeating three of the same sentences. You as proponents were obliged here to justify everything you claim in the interpretation you didn't do. Here today, everything is said in fact about this process as it ran and proved that it was transparent and also that there is no blame on the Croatian side for the failure of the procedure. If what you're doing today is the only way to be visible on the political scene, then it's a really desperate move.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129296	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Bernardić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129297	That I'm visible or invisible doesn't need to worry you. What's certainly invisible are invisible planes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129298	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129299	Thank you, my colleague Bernardic, in the Croatian Parliament, there are two committees that are always led by representatives of the strongest opposition party, which is the Defence Committee and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. For the sake of its own importance, it is important to make it a supersede issue. It means the topics that these committees deal with. On 14 December 2017, your members Joško Klisović, Željka Antunović, Ante Kotormanović, Ana Komaraić Devčić, Zdravko Ronko and Goran Dragovan participated in the discussion. I can say that these colleagues are really well prepared and that they participate in the debates. Now I don't understand why you insist that they were deceived. Do you think they're not good for these committees and why she doesn't propose better candidates? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129300	Thank you, my colleague Bernardic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129301	Well, at first they believed you, and then you cheated on them, and you swept them thirsty across the water, and you did, but you did it. You've deceived both Americans and who can trust you now. You know that folk saying, "You tricked me once and I was ashamed of you, you tricked me twice" and that's how it's gonna be now. And believe me, there is no luck or acquisition of fighter aircraft while the same team is in the saddle for the purchase of fighter aircraft, and then you will be the one who, with your votes, with your support, will be responsible for Croatia's loss of that combat preparedness.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129302	Thank you for your response, next replica of the esteemed colleague Ljubica Lukačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129303	Thank you very much, dear colleague you know what it's like to listen to you actually hard to hear, that you don't trust your colleagues. A lot of questions you asked the minister would be good to ask your colleagues sitting on the Defence Committee. The Defence Committee also includes your colleague Zeljka Antunovic, who was the defence minister, who is a member of the board and who said that the procedure is transparent because she thinks that she is well informed, that still means something. I wonder what it means to you when a country apologizes and says that Croatia is not as guilty as Israel did. Does that mean to you, you never mentioned it today? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129304	I would like to thank my colleague Bernardić for his response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129305	Ljubice Lukacic here is about that in this particular case the government lied, was warned in time, she lied, Plenkovic lied, Krstičević lied, as he lied about the Borg and Agrokora group, that there were no e-mails, e-mailing lists, e-mailing groups, as he lied about INE that he would return INU to Croatian hands, as he lied about not allowing the closing of the Sisak refinery, so they lied that the warning paper did not exist. So the mark for this government is a lie and that's the key point of this story. And you usurped institutions, you think you can do whatever you want, that you can lie, and not just to justify yourself and clean up dealing secret and classified documents in the media. Well, it's a matter of national security, it's with the country you love not for the sake of people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129306	I thank my colleague Bernardic. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bernardic, here's listening to how you accuse you of what level of energy you're putting out here falsely and accusing you of, I don't think I can come simply to myself everything that no one has seen in the procurement process, from the commissions of intelligence services of all the powers of experts, so you don't trust anyone in this country but you trust yourself. We assure you all the time that no financial obligations have been created for Croatia, that everything has been done correctly, that there is no responsibility on the Croatian side and that it could not affect these things. On the other hand, the state of Israel has also put forward an official pre-approval of its offer so that it can participate in this international project. We had a similar situation with Greece, so it was included all the time and the state of Israel and our country was informed so that the opposite responsibility cannot even create appropriate documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129308	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Škorić, the answer of my colleague Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129309	So I understand your frustration with my colleague Škorić, you are in some way solidarity with Minister Krstičević who has failed to obtain fighter aircraft because you, for example, are. in Knin you couldn't find the Croatian flag it's at least that's what Ante Gotovina said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129310	My colleague Bernardić, I would ask you nicely not to disrespect fellow MPs in your answers and reply to the line whether it is true or not. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to Mr. Bernardic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Article 232 and 238 of my colleague Bernardić has been injured, so the fact is that he is looking beyond the topic of debate and General Gotovina whose close associate I was did not call me for the Croatian flag in Knin, that is not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129312	I thank my colleague Škorić, you are partly right, but I do not think the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, please welcome fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129313	So he also agreed with his colleague Škorić, Mr Bernardić injured Article 238 because indeed General Gotovina's hero of the Homeland War did not call his colleague that he could not find the Croatian flag, that is not true, he could not find the cross for 3 days.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129314	I thank you, my colleague Djujic, for the injury of his Rules of Procedure, I do not think he, please, is a colleague of Djujic, a colleague of Djujic, a colleague of Djujic, a colleague of Djujic, a co-worker of art. In 239, I give you a warning, and I beg you, please, my colleague, Djujic, do not force me to take even more stringent measures. Thank you very much, we move on to the next line, dear colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129315	Thank you, Vice President. Now Bernardic's gone, but I still have to say something. If our country calls a tender, the state of Israel will report with its planes and all other states and decide that we can sell planes and they probably checked at the time that they can sell planes and at the end of all the processes that have been happening, someone, in the end of America, says they can't do that. So who's to blame? Neither the Republic of Israel nor the Republic of Israel. Let's ask America why she didn't allow it, and at some point she allowed it, it's a question of questions, and these are the unserious things that we do and we're wasting our time, and we think tonight we better go home than we're rolling around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129316	I want to thank my colleague Misic. Unfortunately, there is no representative of Mr Bernardic's applicant, so he cannot answer you. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, dear colleague Anka Mrak Taritash, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely for peace in the assembly, if you have the need for certain discussions and to resolve some misunderstandings, I would ask you to leave the assembly and resolve it outside the assembly. Here you go, comrades. Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129317	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, Honored Deputy Prime Minister Krstičević and his associates, it is best to return to the topic, and the topic is the interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to act as the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the acquisition of a squadron of multi-purpose combat aircraft. Since we've been talking about invisible planes for several hours now, I'm going to address the invisible prime minister as well. When you go to this booth, each of us has a certain way of speaking, has a certain rhetoric that he uses, the prime minister comes as president of the largest party that has 30%, comes as prime minister who has 78, 79, 80, 81 votes and the prime minister of insults, the prime minister is arrogant, the prime minister is rude and you wonder why? If you have this committee that he has, then you come as a gentleman, say what you have and leave, the Prime Minister doesn't do it. He also left his vice president Krstic and the minister there, so let him do whatever he wants. The prime minister is obviously having some problem, or obviously it's all wrapped up nicely together, and behind that package, there's a lot of stuff behind that bow. When you don't have the arguments, when you talk to someone, you don't have the arguments, then you insult, then you say the wrong arguments, then you talk the wrong way. Likewise, if I were to use the rhetoric of our prime minister and the way he speaks, then I would use, say, one sentence and say, here, our Prime Minister is a great expert in foreign policy, with a graining pedigret, played out, beyond the limits of my abilities, but I won't say it because I'm saying it differently and I don't want to say it that way because when you say it, you talk a lot more about yourself than the one you're talking to. Likewise, we are discussing the purchase of a plane here, one topic is whether planes need it or not, and we can discuss it another time, but we are discussing a business called the work of the century. When you enter the business of the century then as such you must and do it and the question arises why was it such a great interest to conclude this very job, despite all warnings, despite the fact that you Vice President Krsticevic knew and knew that the prime minister knew that the planes that will be in NATO's system that no country that is in NATO has planes that have Israeli upgrades would be a problem. Why did you insist on that? Why was that just a variant and a possibility? Why did you put this country in a position to be ashamed? Why, it's your fault, it's not the Israelis, it's not the Americans, it's who when a kid comes to school in the morning, doesn't write his homework and says, "The dog ate." The dog didn't eat and the dog didn't eat these planes either, the planes are invisible, the planes are gone, you've done a bad and sloppy job. In every normal country, now that we're talking about interpellation, there'd be a new defence minister sitting in your seat, and a chair where the prime minister would sit, if anything else, then she'd shake the shame that the prime minister deserved for the reason that the job that the country went to, absolutely sloppyly done. There's one thing I'll never forget, and my mom often mentions, and it doesn't get up in good shape, it doesn't get humiliated, it's not worth it for Prime Minister Plenkovic, life doesn't last one term, life lasts before and after, and if you decide to be nice to someone who's rude, blatant and insulting, it's about you, not who you're talking about. But here, on several occasions, I asked questions I didn't get an answer. You get into business, you know that these planes will be in the NATO system, you know that for every upgrade on American planes, you need to get the consent of the U.S. Secretary of State, you know that it will be very difficult to allow planes that have Israeli technology into the NATO system. Why didn't you ask for consent? Why weren't you looking for them in time? There's a reason, obviously, you went into business without being ready for the job. Likewise, it can always be compared to something else. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask all of you, you go buy an apartment and you come to the middleman and I tell you I'm selling you an apartment from my uncle, you know, it's no problem, when he comes before the contracts, everything's gonna be okay. Would you, any of you, buy furniture for the apartment, be at your place, have the kids go to school near that apartment or say, look, it's all right, let me meet that uncle, let me see that he gives me written consent. Therefore, if you were to behave differently in your real life, why did you not act as if you were in front of the ministry, it is your responsibility, and it is your responsibility for the prime minister, why didn't you act like one when you were doing the job, and you didn't act like one, but you believed, and you ended up blaming everyone except you. I asked the Prime Minister and I'm going to ask him one more time, so it's no secret to sell weapons that are basically American, but with someone else's upgrade. There have been eight specialized seminars in the past two years that individual governments and individuals came to learn how to buy original, modified or upgraded American weapons from non-American hands, so you could go to it, so that would be the least of the damage. So if it is true, and we always wonder what the truth is, this process will continue. You have two seminars, one or, or a specialized seminar, one is in Florida in Orlando from February 18th to 21st, the quotation is 2150 dollars, the second is in London from April 29th to May 2nd, a quotation if you pay 1850 pounds in time. If you're going to keep insisting on this, the least damage is sending someone to learn the job. Do not learn business in front of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and show how you actually and just some personal interest that is there is stronger than the general interest. We lost the general interest on the way, lost the public interest, some personal interest remained, and apparently the personal interest was to close this big deal. According to the halls and the towers, they say that this job is related to the LNG terminal, I don't know, I can't, nor dare say anything, but I know one fact that you've announced the job of the century, that the Prime Minister came to this HS, insulted whom he could have offended and gone, that he left you here to defend yourself, you know, that then, that it was wrong, all the guilty Israelis, the guilty Americans, no one on the road understood, so give an answer to the basic question, how did you expect that in NATO's system for the first time the American planes with Israeli upgrades would come in, then you've never come here before and there's only one small Republic of them will succeed, and you know that there's a problem, that you've put the problem under the rug, when the problem grew big enough, and then you've come to blame everyone else, and not you. The fault for the badly done job is borne by you, Minister Krsticevic, but it is equally borne by Prime Minister Plenkovic, who has made clear what he had and left. The message to Prime Minister Plenkovic, Mr Plenkovic, was life before this term of office and will last beyond the mandate, you will have to go before some citizens and say what you have done. The same way, as you do in front of this HS and this is the only place to discuss it. This is about one really diplomatic scandal, it's about one country getting so sloppyly into a job that calls the job of the century and behind it hiding behind the pager, behind the netpepper, behind someone else's responsibility. The sole responsibility is for Minister Krstic and Prime Minister Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129318	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. In the name of the applicant, dear colleague Igor Dragovan, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129319	Thank you. Not waiting for an individual debate, I say a few sentences, and it's about three things. The first thing, the Defence Committee, on this subject held 3 of its meetings and two-and-a-half, half a session, which was already mentioned here since 20 July, was the announcement that the project would go and then a technical tactical study was launched which provided the basic elements for the call for tenders and that was the information. The second session was held on 14 December and the same year on which the Committee decided, unanimously, at that time, that it would agree to go into a multi-purpose combat aircraft procurement project. The Committee did not decide what the offer was, it was on the Defence Council and the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the session. And the last meeting of the Defence Committee on the subject was on December 13th this year after learning somewhere in mid-November that certain problems existed. I called a meeting of the Defence Committee on the subject, which is the status of the negotiations on the conclusion of the contract between the Republic of Israel and the state of Israel on the acquisition of a multi-purpose fighter aircraft on which he served as minister with his team and answered all questions from MPs and MPs. The SDP has brought its position before that beginning, which is to support the retention and provision of that capacity of the armed forces, according to which we voted on the Defence Committee, and I believe today, and today, it would vote again as well that this capacity should be maintained. The fact is that those who bear the responsibility of the authorities make the final decision that they have made easily and in the way they have made it. The second thing I wanted to say was the issue of today's debate over Figure 21, the Government of Ivica Racan practically allowed the fighting ability of the armed forces to be maintained with the first remonting moments of 21, when the defence minister was Željka Antunović, at the time there was so much money, as in the Government of Zoran Milanovic there was so much money that only by remonting that ability, there was no money to enter the project to obtain new or used aircraft, was such an economic situation. I would like to ask my colleagues that, not once, especially my colleague Djakic, at the first session of July 20th, he opened the question of moments, so I invite you to make a proposal to hold the thematic session of the Defence Committee in Ukraine, given that the Defence Committee in the previous meeting, headed by counterpart Ivić, already had one thematic session and no one escapes from that session. So, here, that, that's what I'm calling you. I, myself personally, regret that the debate has come down this way, unfortunately, we come to HS too often in situations that are important, I think that this debate about the failed job of getting a multi-purpose fighter plane should be out, it should have resulted in these mistakes not being repeated and being much more ready in a possible new supply, but I'm afraid that after such a debate, we'll just go a step back, and we won't go a step forward and that's what hurts me personally. And this whole situation was created in my humble opinion from the fact that expectations were high, and what practically turned out to be a job almost done, this was a perception, and it didn't happen. And of course, because of such expectations, everyone has the right to ask questions that are the reasons and why this job has not been completed. For a simple reason, I see it in such a way that tomorrow's work could be better quality and better done if it comes to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129320	I thank my esteemed colleague Dragovan. We have several replicas, a respected colleague of Anka Dark Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129321	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear fellow Dragovan, you obviously had a need here to explain what we all know, and this is the relationship between the legislative and executive authorities. So, you're on the Committee that named this HS, you've done your job, you've advocated getting a plane or even the idea of getting a plane, and as one serious and responsible opposition, you've said okay, get into the job, and for that, you should be responsible for it now, or at least share responsibility with Minister Krstičević. You know exactly who does what you do, and you've never kept secret that you're in charge of getting a plane if that's what financial opportunities or budget allows, and that's why there's no need to justify yourself, so there's no need to go out there and say why it's one way or another. Everyone needs to do their job, you've been doing your job on your board, and if the minister had done his job, it would never have come to this interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129322	I thank my esteemed colleague. The next replica is a respected colleague of the Professor's. Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Dragovan, you brought out what was said on the board, however, you should have added something else, that in that debate it was said that NATO members of the alliance had different types of aircraft, not only American planes, since it could be obtained from other producers, but it was also said that in all these offers there were also these two offers that were for F-16 were the previous consent of the American side to be able to go into the process, so that this one, and also that if it were announced and said what was in this, this previous agreement, the whole structure that Mrs. Mrak Taritash had simply not held water, but the construction of some political goals, and not the real work that was being done.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129324	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman. Comrade Dragovan's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129325	Dear fellow Tudjman, surely, that, especially at the board meeting this December 13th, all the talks and all the meetings were presented, but what I would like to mention once again which I may not have previously underlined until the end, the announcement of the job was such that expectations were great and practically that the job had been completed. How closely those who were more, followed this whole situation could know that there are certain reserves since we do not decide our own fate, primarily I mean the Republic, but that we depend on the agreement of two other partners. And that is certainly why it is an absolute democratic right to hold a serious democratic debate in the Croatian Parliament and ask for answers to certain questions, do I think that this way we can only get a better result tomorrow? to some new job. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129326	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have the next line, dear colleague Angelko Striker, come in. You can turn it off, thank you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129327	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Drago, Dragovan, when we discussed this on the Defence Committee, I believe that we were presented with all the information, from the tender itself, the documentation, the tendering of the terms to be met by the contract i.e. the agreement of the States, States, prices, characteristics, aircraft capacity, economic cooperation and everything else. So I'm really surprised that I'm stressing that everything has been presented that today your colleague and party president can say that the parliamentary board has been deceived. So here's your comment on that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129328	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Dragovan, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129329	I stand by the fact that I have repeatedly said that the Defence Committee is in line with its business and legal powers that the Law on Defence has implemented the procedure and practice that has been done before. So he got the information he wanted and wanted especially at this last session. The fact that in this amount of correspondence and conversation, neither you nor I as members of the Committee could have had all the details. And I'll do it again. In a very responsible and well-intentioned manner, we in the SDP supported the multi-purpose combat aircraft procurement project in terms of retaining that combat capability. But also now in this debate, we ask only responsible questions where we have sinned so that such mistakes will not be repeated to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129330	I thank my esteemed colleague Dragovan. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129331	Dear fellow Dragovan, I think I appreciate what you said from the board of defense's business position, and that's how it should be. However, it should not in any way be felt that in this creamy procedure the Defence Committee is a collateral victim and receives at the expense of this schlamperate gets pucks. However, what you said as your wish that mistakes should not be repeated so that we would like to have a discussion in that tone, I think that your application will be unheard because we do not even use the ability to learn from the mistakes of others, let alone at our mistakes in addition to this festival of vanity that we watch daily in this Croatian Assembly and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129332	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129333	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. After so many media inscriptions, so many debates, so many arguments, and so many new, repeated thesis, the reasons really don't know what this was ultimately about. But those main questions will also be for the public, but also for the sake of what is being imposed here, mainly if I have been able to detect from the discussion of the interpretation first and basic question why Israeli F16 and that is the question that has been the last months when the procurement decision was made. Of course second then, then why didn't it go away? Why isn't the job done? And then third, whose responsibility is it? What are the consequences other than the obvious and that's not getting the plane? The answer to the first question is I think it's very clear and I don't understand some of the debates that raised that question. And it says in the material that the criteria, the assessment criteria, are 4 main domains: strategic domains, domains of ability, financial domains and domains of investment and 10 sub-domains. And within each sub-domain by comparison, scores in 122 areas and 284 elements were scored. And, of course, the final value of each domain is the result of the winning points, etc. So, apparently, there were a lot of things going on inside the main targets. And then he says this - the offer of the State of Israel was valued with 81.73% points. The Kingdom of Sweden is the second 69.07, so there is an obvious difference of 10. 15%. The US bid is the third with 65.72 of that Greek 35.1. So that's one of the basic reasons why. And what's the main criterion of what we're all looking at, of course, is the price, and then we're talking about Israeli planes from the already mentioned $475 million. Greece $170 million. But without only looking at the price criterion, and not at these other criteria clearly why they got the least points because they were not defined either the offer in full or the payment plan. So the practical offer was incomplete and invalid. Gripperi, or the Kingdom of Sweden, means just over 1 billion euros, so almost 3 times more than Israeli. And the US's basic offer is 1.55 billion dollars without the cost of weapons and training, which, in the end, was not really an estimate of how much it cost. Just what I've just said should probably answer someone's question as to why Israeli planes. Because they're at least three times cheaper than the next for the same amount. Furthermore, when it comes to the price of 475 million. It mentioned a price of $135 million that was purchased at the time 30 years ago, which may have been recalculated today would have been twice as high in terms of inflation, but it also stated that it was not only the price of a basic plane, that there is much more that costs. So, it's everyone who knows that something is getting is not a matter of basic procurement, it's a matter of utility, usability, maintenance costs, and all the additional costs that should be taken into account when we're counting on these jobs, so take a regular plane for 150 million, and then have another 2 billion costs, and it's certainly not a good job, and I think it's only then that would be a big problem. And at that price, it's already said, there's simulators, training, spare parts, additional engines, weapons, Earth's... So radar, mission analysis, pilots, logistics, maintenance for three years, the presence of instructors and so on, infrastructure, that obviously what's an estimate of costs where we don't have any additional investments, like when you buy a car, buy a car, and you have a cost that gets you out on the road without investment, without anything, with all the services possible, and so on, and so on, and with all possible additional equipment that is, so we can also make it very clear to all citizens, what it means to car, the basic price of car without equipment, when you come to those ads, so you see from something, it comes there, and they sell you a car that doesn't even have a lighter, I think it's clear to everyone, so it's absolutely... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now we get to the other key questions, why didn't it pass? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] First of all, this was an extremely ambitious plan where we wanted to achieve a goal that we can't ignore, in order to get through as favourably as possible, with all aspects, to introduce some new standards in business, in the arms trade, above all between the United States and Israel, there was a colleague Mrak-Taritash mentioning something about NATO. Was that right or wasn't it? Was that worth the try? So if we're looking, a billion dollars, so maybe it is, maybe it is. What is the ultimate epilogue, it is certain that this kind of failure, with a highly clear and highly ambitious goal that we will certainly not be able to expect to go through in any further purchases with these expressions. Of course, we were talking about buying old planes, so that's not good, and you have to understand that in these relationships if one bidder offers for new planes a billion-and-a-half, plus who knows how much extra costs, and you can get the same thing for equal, equal, almost equal retail opportunities for three, four times the price, of course, that one won't be too looking forward to it, and of course that's when it came to what happened. Responsibility? If it were good faith, and I heard nothing more than that, that someone could say that we might have been gullible, but the responsibility would have been much greater and the minister would have taken steps on the basis of non-official documents. Based on what was delivered officially, regularly, the first, all the opinions delivered, went further, the final consent at the end of which it was stuck, did not. In what procedure should the minister say and stop, or the government, and say no, based on what? Convincing one side that maybe not, and the other might, and that they'll make a deal. And your goal is a billion dollars and more, and if you were gambling on something that's non-papers, something like this that goes through some channels or not, that would be irresponsible. It would be irresponsible to take such some... documents, based on them making decisions, you have to stick to what's in the offer, as much as you have out of it or not, because now it's gone where it is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And say no, see if you can't win anything, we're stopping it, we're going for a billion more offers. Then you'd understand the efforts of colleagues who then said we shouldn't, that we should spend maybe another billion and a half dollars. Because, of course, the HNS Club won't support this interpretation, of course we're sorry, because I think... Come on, if nothing else, we all agreed that we needed a continuation of the possibility of action, of combat action, of having our fleet without any air... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's gonna get rid of it, and I believe in the end that we're still going to get through it more expensive. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Was that worth a shot? We think that, and everything else wouldn't be responsible. If that were ambitious, it had failed, unfortunately not, and there may be the only responsibility, in that ambition to introduce some new, new relations between NATO, the United States, Israel, and all of us. If that was worth that billion and a half, time will tell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129334	I thank my esteemed colleague, Curaya. We are moving on to the next debate on behalf of the Labour Party Representatives' Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives' Club, dear colleague Rechimer Varda. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129335	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I know some people are in a hurry to go to the game because of Dinah, and I'm a Hajdukian, so it's all the same to me, but I'll cut it short anyway, they're short anyway. So, I listened, I listened to the left and the right, but I carefully read the government's interpretation and response, and what was I able to establish? That the Ministry of Defence of Israel, 10 January 2019, pointed out among them that the Republic of Croatia has shown professionalism and correct judgment at every step of the process. The Republic of Croatia could not affect this outcome, and cannot be held accountable. In an official statement by the United States ambassadors to the Republic of Croatia on 28 January, he also said that the United States strongly supported and will continue to support Croatia's efforts to acquire fighter aircraft, and we have particularly supported Israeli sales, and we have done everything,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129336	Excuse me, colleague Varda. Comrade Vard, I'm sorry, just a little bit. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you nicely, we are in the High House, and if anyone has any discussions... get it out of this parliamentary hall. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Allow your colleagues Varda to proceed with their exposure, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129337	Dear President, it's a matter of domestic education and attitude towards the elderly, but it goes to them. So, the US Ambassador to the Republic of Croatia, as of 28 January 2019, said what he said and said in the end that during the new process, the Croatian government has shown its determination to provide the best planes for the best price and that it remains a key strategic partner to the US and it will not change. On the basis of this, and these are the facts, the Labour and Solidarity Party Club and independent representatives took a stand, that no financial obligations were created for the Republic of Croatia, that the state of Israel had presented an official pre-approval, that the Israeli offer would be valid at all and that it could participate in the international competition at all. The same prior authorisation was granted by Greece. It was the exclusive obligation of the state of Israel to obtain final approval from the US Government for the delivery of aircraft in the relevant RS configuration. Israel, therefore, officially reported by the Republic of Israel that the opposite takes responsibility, cannot result in an appropriate US approval for the delivery of Israeli aircraft F16, a barracks to the Republic of Croatia. The Israeli side pointed out that throughout the Croatian-Israel project, they were in an open and professional dialogue, that Croatia showed professionalism and correct judgment, at every step of the process, and that Croatia could not affect this outcome and could not be responsible. For reasons and facts cited by the Club of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, it gives much support to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Defence and the Deputy Prime Minister and will not support this government's interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129338	Thank you, dear colleague Vardi. We're moving on to individual debates, dear colleague of Sunchana Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129339	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, given that we've been spinning around for hours, that we've heard the government's arguments, I'll just repeat a few key points. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia did not sign any contract on the purchase of aircraft. I hope we all understand that today. Secondly, some who spoke about the interpelations of the proposings, unfortunately, did not read it. It would be good to be instructed in content. And thirdly, today we have witnessed what we often witness and he mentioned a fellow respected before me, it's about football, everyone in the Republic of Croatia could be football menus, and today we realize that everyone understands themselves in the purchase of planes. Well, we've made some progress. Now, as far as interpretation is concerned, I'm only going to refer to something that may have remained on the side, which no one has spoken of today, specifically, and I think is extremely important, and this is a matter of the external political position of the Republic of Croatia. I will just say that it is absolutely and completely incorrect, it is said from the interpretation, which argues that due to the implementation of this process, international relations or international reputation of the Republic of Croatia between the United States and the state of Israel, it is completely incorrect and interlocutors from both countries, with the highest levels of government, they have also denied it. Croatia remains responsible and has stressed its readiness for further co-operation with the Republic of Croatia. As for Croatia, the United States remains a partner and ally of the Republic of Croatia, when it comes to military co-operation and defence. Similarly, I think it is important to remind ourselves that we had valuable donations from the United States worth 350 million kn, which we must never forget, which was also a good sign of cooperation and the hand of the Republic of Croatia, new helicopters, and equally proudly watched during the celebration of the Day of Victory and Homeland Thanksgiving and Croatian defenders, on 5 August last year, among the guests, were senior officials, commanders and members of the Minnesota National Guard, and the State of Israel sent 3 F 16. That's not what happened in the history of the Republic of Croatia. As for the co-operation of the Ministry of Defence and many times mentioned today by the members of the Defence Committee, I will remind myself of all the conclusions and praises that the board members made when the minister and his associates presented reports and when he spoke about the defence strategy and the national security strategy of the Republic of Croatia, which has always been unanimously accepted. Finally, no less important, I will say that since Minister Krstičevic, led by the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Defence has obtained the unconditional opinion of the State Audit Office on the business of the Ministry of Defence, and I also think that we should remember those awards, which the members of the Ministry of Defence received, which is the pride of Croatia, let us not forget the numerous efforts of our soldiers, numerous anonymous wives, sons or daughters who are in the Ministry of Defence and are actually our pride. Let's not forget to talk about these people. Finally, it is clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has led the process systemically, very analytically and responsibly, leading exclusively to Croatian national interests, and no financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia, at this point do not exist or have been taken over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129340	Thank you to my dear colleague, Sunny Glavak, we have a few replicas of dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129341	Thank you very much. My colleague Glavak, I am pleased that you mentioned the issue of the international position of Croatia which is definitely not only not at risk by the action of Minister Krstičević, but I think it is certainly much better than it was at the time of the SDP's government's mandate. Only one example, so we know that the geopolitical situation is changing, NATO relations are changing, we know that the key of NATO member states, the United States also requires other countries to bear a much greater burden in financing their defence and contribution to NATO itself than it has ever been. And that is why it is extremely important to mention once again that exactly in the mandate of this government and Minister Krsticević the budget of the Ministry of Defence for a billion kuna, but to leave the perspective, this is an increase of 25% compared to what was at the time of the SDP government, and that was during the SDP government, the Republic of Croatia was below the average of NATO and EU member states in terms of detachment for defence, and is now above that average, so that the action of Minister Krstičević certainly contributes to the international position of the Republic of Croatia and Croatia's military. but it does not diminish it. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129342	.../college Falcon.... Answer, colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129343	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Sokol, you are absolutely right, given some age experience, and you will be able to remember what pride he was in the Republic of Croatia when the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO, when we met one of the goals after the independence of the Republic of Croatia which the late President Tudjman was talking about, and we also know what importance it is when the Republic of Croatia is in such a strong alliance. I will remind you that during his stay in the Republic of Croatia, the then president of the United States of America, George Bush, when he said, no one must ever touch you again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129344	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sunny Head for your reply. Next replica, dear colleague Davor Lonchar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129345	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of the Sun, I am deeply convinced that the team on the right is not interested in the procedure and procedures of this public procurement. I am aware that they have another task, but do not recognise the man's success in the extensive, minister and his people who work with him, that he has returned his dignity to the Croatian soldier, that he has hired new people into the ministry and opened a new working minister, that with the Croatian economy and in part, he has signed contracts for the needs of the ministry, they cannot possibly understand. And thirdly, there's a lot of colleagues here on the right who have never in their lives repeated any public procurement in the process and do not know the procedure and procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129346	I thank my esteemed colleague, Lonchar. Answer, colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lončar, you are right, in the first term of this government, and so did Minister Krstičević, I have witnessed this several times and personally, we have raised Croatia's military industry to a higher level, it also contributes to the total exports of the Republic of Croatia, so I think that segment is extremely important when we talk about employability, when we talk about our economies and the overall contribution of the entire military sector, if you want to make payments to the state budget. What we talked less about today, it's the return of our soldiers, so here's the final recent example, these are our Pumes in Varazdin, where I certainly want to express my gratitude in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129348	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostojić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129349	Dear colleagues, it's no problem that maybe we don't know how to get planes, etc., the problem is and that therapy was made because those in charge of it didn't do it. The fact is that this procedure has failed and the fact is also not true that there are no financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia and you mentioned some yourself, and no one answered earlier who paid for those planes that were in Knin. I'll just say one thing, if it were true that no one could touch us, then we wouldn't even be buying planes. Therefore, we should be very concerned about our national security, and this kind of indignity we have experienced deserves to be discussed in HS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129350	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129351	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Ostojić, do not listen selectively. So, I reminded myself of one time, of a statement, it was a day after the Republic of Croatia became a full member of NATO, that's one thing. The other thing is, what was the cost, we'll come back again, I've already talked about it, and I hate to go back to it because we're always in the same line of phrases. So, how much did it cost us to fail a remont of migs? Well, if you're asking me, let's get back to it. Therefore, there is no contract signed with anyone and there is no financial obligation because the contract does not exist for the Republic of Croatia and it is only correct and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129352	I thank my esteemed colleague. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Josko Klisovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129353	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Your Honor, ma'am. You said in your statement that this whole story about buying a plane failed, it doesn't affect relations between the Republic of Croatia and the United States. But do you think that systematic ignoring of American diplomacy by the Croatian government, including denying the receipt of non-papers of warnings, written, oral, e-mails sent, to still check with Israel whether they got it, whether they had US consent or not, does not leave an impression on the American side of what kind of partner in the Republic is doing because when you systematically ignore me who friendly warns you, then it does not leave a good impression. When dealing with a state that is unable to carry out an elementary external political analysis that would clearly suggest that Americans will not give consent to this kind of purchase of aircraft because Israel has too many and too many of them on the market, to the market to send them internationally and thus to the market. Facilitate some financial American interests [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] And all that, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129354	.../respected colleague Klisovic/... Answer, colleague Glavak, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129355	Thank you very much. My colleague Klisovic, I'm surprised by this flatulence of yours, you're actually a diplomat and you should know that in diplomatic circles politics is not about impressions, but about expertise, negotiations, insight into documents. Once again, I remind you of a statement by the US ambassador who said the accident sometimes occurs during the negotiations and without any blame from the Croatian Government of the United States and Israel failed to agree on the terms of purchase. Smart enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129356	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, what I'm saying at the beginning is that my predecessors, or my colleague Grbin, Mr Bernardić, Franco Vidovic, have brought out a series of facts from this interpretation and I won't be repeating myself too much now. But what I want to point out is that this job of obtaining fighter aircraft that I believe should happen that Croatia needs a military air force and that we need new fighter aircraft is announced by the Ministry of Defence as the largest project of the Ministry in which all efforts are made, that this will be the greatest success of the ministry in this term. And then it happened that after the whole process was implemented, the greatest success after a year of lost time was infamous. And that's what happens. It's not the problem when things like that happen and we say that all the time. So, in some processes and walking, failure can happen. But I don't understand why you're having a problem admiting we didn't make it, but to blame it all on someone else. In this case, in the State of Israel, the State of Israel, which is our partner, which is our friendly state, and I do not understand that it is so easy to blame them all the time. And I'd like the same ministers to say here if you think there's at least a little blame for the Ministry of Defense in this whole process. And why is doubt among the Croatian public created among us that there is little guilt and the Ministry of Defence? Because this whole time has been communicated precisely by the Ministry and by the government quite confusing this whole process. So we learned from foreign media that this story had failed the Croatian public. So even after that, you've been denying it for a while, and this whole time you've been making confusing statements and incorrect data. You were hiding it first. Then you were saying it wasn't like that. Then we didn't have a paper, so there's a paper, so there's no paper, so the mail came, so the mail didn't come and so, all the time, we've got this one cacophony of information. It's another thing. It's not the exact information you keep saying there's no expense. There's a cost. There's a cost. First you said 400 thousand kuna, 600 thousand kuna. Look, it's not small money. There is a lot in Croatia to spend that money on. And it's not like there's no expense. It's a waste of time that can't be returned. But all these people, commissions, our defence officers who worked on this project, means their salaries, their journals, foreign work logs that didn't stay in Croatia, that's all the costs that came and that's here. Before the end of this process, when it was evident that he had failed, then you began to blame yourself, it was not enough for you to accuse the State of Israel, but instead, you started suddenly after 3 years, but because the HDZ was in power to mention the MiGs and the failed acquisition of MiGs. Why didn't you say that at first? So that's where we're told that we're going round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and round and We found out, we bought the same thing in the 12th month already in 2017 after the meeting of Plenkovic and Natanyahu, so we found out before the whole process at all that we were going to go to trade with Israel and that we were going to do the job with Israel. So all this information and everything that's been going on in the media has broken this whole process. Mr. Minister, it's, uh, it's debated here, not talking about some criminal responsibility here, or that you've done something wrong in a criminal sense. There's a political responsibility debate here. And why is it difficult to say that I was wrong? So when a man confesses and says, "I was wrong, this is my school, I'll do it the second time," then perhaps the opposition and the public would see it a little more kindly. You pointed out that you were a warrior, that you were a soldier. You're a politician. You've been retired for 15, 20 years. Thank you for your war credit, and no one can take it from you or challenge it. But you're a little offensive, you're too. When the president objected to those fires in Dalmatia, you resigned immediately, so you pulled it back. So you get the impression you can't be told anything. And nobody's telling you this on purpose. So, all these things we're warning about, we're warning for good purposes. It's another thing. It's a question of interpretation. Well, the interpretation wouldn't have been at all if this process had worked. But it didn't work, and it's gone, and now we're where we are. And we've initiated this interpretation just to answer the questions that we keep asking, which we don't get answers to. We didn't get them today either. We've asked you different questions on many occasions, you haven't answered us. And another thing. When it started getting these planes, then some people were talking, and why are we even buying second-hand planes? Why don't we buy new planes? Then it was you ministers who told us that Croatia has no money for new planes and that we are buying what we can and that this Israeli offer is the best. And I agree that she's the best, that she went the way she went. But obviously she couldn't even get through because there was some hidden doorknob in there, let's just say it like that. And then after that thing breaks down in a hurry, you're telling us hugely, so let's go buy six new planes. Better 6 new ones than 12 old ones, after a year of process we've been doing, and when you assured us that we can't buy new ones, than we have to buy 12 used ones because we don't have money, we don't have money for another. And now all of a sudden we do. So who's crazy about me asking? I mean, which is true, can we buy new planes or can't we buy new planes? Give us more answers, why in a year your opinion has changed or what has changed in Croatia that you have learned that after 12 months. The failed process project, which we've been working on, we're suddenly richer, I guess we're richer with experience, so now after experience we've learned how we can buy new planes, twice as much and we're told we have to be 12, that's what we need, so many squadrons, that's what we have to defend, that's enough and 6. I'm afraid it's gonna be three by the end. So that's all the questions that stayed open and didn't answer. If you had given us, if you had clearly and unequivocally communicated this all along, there wouldn't be any of this interpretation today or any of the problems, but here we are, and I'm asking you really here I'd like to hear the answers and I'd like you to understand that there is political responsibility. So this government is having a lower affair after the affair. Heavy leaks and heavy affairs. We have a case that just two and three days ago in Slovenia, the representative resigned because he took a sandwich that he didn't pay for because he was in a hurry. And he paid for it the other day. So he resigned from political responsibility to his term in office in parliament. And for us here, the government is crumbling down a million and 300, says the prime minister this morning, 600,000, so only 600,000, we've raised the budget. So you know what a small municipality in some undeveloped part of Croatia means to 600 000 kuna? And here you are, well, 600,000, we learned, experience, another way out will be smarter. Here I'm really asking you to give us answers to the questions we've been asking all day and to finally realize that no one is malicious and that we're saying this because of your guilt because this job has failed and the state of Israel is our partner country and if it's their fault, I'm asking you if the Ministry of Defense has made sure that they compensate us for this lack or damage that we've suffered through some other cooperation, it doesn't have to be financial that they depecate us financially, we can learn a lot from them. The prime minister said in the morning that the Israeli government, or the state of Israel, had been a little underexperienced in this business and that they had failed because of their inexperience and I would not agree, is a country that has existed for 70 years, which has certainly had great experience in both state and defence. And we can learn a lot from them. And we can learn a lot, and I'm just hoping that you'll use this failed project to increase cooperation with them even more, and in their defence skills, we'll get as much as we can for as little money as possible when we're already here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129358	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. We've got a few replicas, first of all a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Djujic, I think we are not discussing the relationship between Croatia and the United States or Croatia and Israel, these are our friendly countries and we are not discussing the Minister as a general, as a participant in the Homeland War, we are discussing some other things. And now I'm interested in some other things. Is the Croatian sky protected, now it is, will it be in 3 years? I keep getting some impression of what you'd say to Latini, and I believe that the prime minister will understand me,.../The speaker speaks Latin./... If someone's trying to fix the planes for 100 million, it's not good, if someone's trying to buy new ones for a billion that aren't worth that much, that's not the problem, is it? On the other hand.../The speaker speaks Latin./... ie if you are not familiar with the law, it does not justify you and the prime minister has taken responsibility here, said I guarantee that this is transparent and completely open and is not. And you and I both know it's not, so I'm just wondering how the HDZ colleagues can defend it at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129360	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129361	Well, colleague Hajdukovic, and they're aware that everything was clean here because here it was, if everything was clear, that everything was fine, so the prime minister would not be helping the Ministry of Defence and let's continue to say for the correction exam. So he doesn't trust either, but he defends, I mean, he defends his minister but I think it would be easier, more honest to say, people, look, we've been wrong, it costs us so much and so much, we're going to go into a new process, we're going to do this, we need to speed up because what you said, our sky is currently protected, but if this doesn't happen soon and this story doesn't end, then future protection comes into question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129362	Thank you, dear colleague Djujic. Next replica, respected counterpart Petar Škorić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129363	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you do not need to worry about the reduction of Croatian aviation and the loss of ability because this government will ensure that new aircraft are purchased and related to the cacophony and negativity that occurs in Croatia on this subject, this is what you and your colleagues have just created from the opposition because we have seen both the United States and the media in Israel, so that this procurement has not taken place and the proportions and that no Croatia is called or implicated any responsibility. Moreover, the Israeli media say that Israel was wrong and what he apologized to Croatia, therefore, this climate was created precisely thanks to your engagement whether we will discuss any public procurement in this way and throw everything in doubt, so better if business was not done to the end, that it was interrupted at this stage, to start over than to have problems tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129364	Thank you, colleague Škorić. Answer, fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129365	Comrade Skoric, I would disagree, so we didn't create, I don't know, an atmosphere and an affair with an American ambassador who made statements in front of the government that he met the prime minister in time, so the opposition didn't invent it, we didn't say that. That's what a man came out of a government meeting and said I met the prime minister a year ago. I met the president, I met everyone. Second thing, you're now saying this government is going to buy new planes. So why did this government convince us a year ago today that we have to buy second-hand planes because we don't have any money for the new ones. When did you suddenly find out that money now or that we don't have money? So give yourself more arrangements and give some work to the end transparently and what is right and don't blame others, so that's what again, you screwed up, so the government led this process, the government didn't bring this process to an end, and because of the government, this process has failed. If you'd made it, if we'd bought the planes, we wouldn't have had anything to talk about. So don't always put all the blame on someone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129366	I thank my colleague Giujic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129367	Thank you, Vice President. In fact, in this debate, you have struck the essence, which is why we are here today. Because the interpretation was launched to get answers, which is why the acquisition of fighter planes failed. However, we did not get those answers. Now as you've been saying all along it's responsibility. It seems clear to all of us, whose responsibility and who should have taken this political responsibility, we are not talking about personal responsibility, we are not talking about attitudes or personal characteristics. We're talking political responsibility. And can you and will you, first of all, believe that the future process will be done properly and those planes will be obtained, guaranteeing national security and can the citizens really believe in the future of the same minister who actually failed this job?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129368	Thank you, fellow Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129369	That's right, colleague Alfirev, so now we're being attacked here that we're creating some cacophony, that we've written this kind of interpretation, that kind of interpretation, that we've been playing ball, that we haven't been playing the point, but in fact it's only true that if the planes were bought that this job had succeeded, we wouldn't have been this interpretation, we wouldn't have anything to talk about, but we'd all be proud of our new planes together. And this is how we have to ask questions, so that these things don't happen, and on the other hand I say again, this whole process has been run from the beginning by a creamy, non-transparent, incorrect, with the knowledge of the information of the subsequent and subsequent intelligence of the government's representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129370	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Ranko Ostijic, come in. Comrade Ostojić, please turn on the microphone, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129371	What's important is the following, and I would like to ask you, and you've mentioned that well, what kind of relationship the countries of Israel would be to us if the reverse situation had happened, that we were responsible for the failure of such a business. It turns out that we have to apologize, there were sentences here, in which, imagine, we remain in friendly relationships. That's what I'm interested in, it's that this shame that happened with the failed purchase of the plane, with the fact that the MiGs at this point are grounded, but it's not for the sake of an investigation that's been mentioned as a security threat. That's what the real question is, here we're not talking about. And I think it's very important that in the opposite situation it doesn't go like this. We still have to worship at the end of the Israelites, who have been stalling things for a year and have come to the situation that we did not finally buy what we demonstrated at the greatest celebration of Croatian victory in Knin. That's where we were showing planes we couldn't buy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129372	I would like to thank my colleague Ostojic, reply from his colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129373	That is exactly how fellow Ostojić, therefore, is what I asked in the debate and what you have been repeating all day. But that's why this interpretation came. OK, if it's 100% guilt in the state of Israel, as the government claims, what are we going to get as a state of compensation? And I say again, we don't have to get the money. We can, let the minister say, that people will make it up to us through it, that and that. We've got you and those benefits, here and there, they'll help us. And that's exactly what you said, if it were the opposite situation, if I had my failure, I'd probably pay very fat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129374	I would like to thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague, Professor Miroslav Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129375	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the sixth hour of debate on this subject, I somehow get two impressions. The first impression is in that aphorism, he wants my end, because I know his beginning. So it refuses to discuss the measure of things, it refuses to discuss, that out of these MiGs, the 10 MiGs that were to be remounted are only 3 in function, the rest are not standing, so now it's an argument of savings and I don't know what. That's what he wants to dramatize himself with and... what neither dramatize or criminalize the neda. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The second is the impression that we have one discussion about what the people say, the deaf and the blind talk. They just don't want to respect the answers on the one hand. They are not wanted, falsified or incorrectly reinterpretted, which are simply listed, if read carefully and what is written in the interpretation simply does not stand. I've already read it today, so I'm going to read it again on the non-paper you're referring to, which you claim is something to read, interpret so that it's impossible to buy at all, then, an impossible contract, this non-paper, simply warns about a series of issues that the Republic of Israel and Greece should ask on the possible hour of the whole supply of Israeli or Greek used fighter planes, etc. So it's obviously information that needs to be given prior consent to get these planes. What is kept quiet, what does not want to be accepted and admit that this previous consent has been obtained. No, but it is claimed that this is an obvious message from the American side, that the Croatian public is being deceived from that message or disrespect, that there is a hidden intention and that there is some hidden intention, and that the competition and desire to buy these planes have gone wild. It forgets what was said on the American side, on the Israeli side, which is also said in the State Department, and in the Pentagon, and Director for Europe Lockheed Martin, that there are no obstacles, that there are obviously some reasons why we want to talk about it. However, quoting a position like this and turning it into a direct message from the American side that it would be nothing, it is then concluded that two years were lost, that the broken relations with the United States, that we had to, knew, or had to know that it was not possible to implement this because of the third party's position, this, this contest, that it is claimed that, that the whole Croatian side should have agreed with Israel and the United States, and not that it was Israel's responsibility. So, on the other hand, that the procedure was not transparent which was simply incorrect because we see from what the chairman of the Defence Committee said, that several meetings of these committees were presented anywhere, it was also said by him, and by this, from the government's point of view that 2,000 pages of documents showing the whole flow of this event were brought to these Committees. However, what is further said in this debate is repeated nonstop, $135 million is three times, four times more than this price, and forgets to say, 'it is not to be heard that the prices of the plane are only 40% of this contract, and 60% is everything else, from, of the simulators, from the weapons, from the education, from the maintenance tools, from the training, from the infrastructure, and so on. So in just one way, the political way is to say, if there's something there again, it's something hidden, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong, it's wrong. However, it seems to me that today, so today there is not something I think is worth warning about. In the interpretation of what is signifiable, they often call for what the portals have declared, not what the state institutions and official documents have said. The portals have their function, they have their position, but the portals according to the structure of the communication pattern they serve or serve, they can't make arguments, they can't present evidence, they're fragmented in their own terms. It is significant that this interpretation is not referred to the documents of the official institutions, and therefore if we want to be serious, and as parties to the authorities, and as parties to the opposition, we must use the institutions, their views, their arguments, their arguments, not the structures of someone's claims, which are, by definition, already fragmentary, because they do not necessarily have to be untrue, but they only advocate one, one option and do not give a complete picture. So much is this whole, this story today in some way, which the phrase used, often used, the democratic option, can be used, but objectively speaking, that I now descend to your level, 'who will pay for this waste of time that we spent today, and we didn't go, we didn't go to debate in one serious way about this one subject that should be of interest to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129376	I thank my esteemed colleague, Professor Tudjman. We have a replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129377	Dear fellow Tudjman, you were at the head of the SIS, so you're threatening SOA, and you know how things happen and how things work out when you get a paper that's non-paper paper. What is the problem with this process is that the Croatian side received from the US government and the administration non-paper document, in which it made it very clear what Croatia should ask Israel before going into the process of obtaining airplanes at all. What is the basic question, and what I ask you is that Croatia, therefore, the Ministry of Defence, the Government, Minister Krsticevic, or anyone else, has done anything on this paper. Is there any clue that anything on that plan was done?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129378	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Answer, Professor Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129379	Thank you. My colleague Mrsic, first of all, I was at the head of the SIS, but the HIS, but this is less important now, as far as this issue is concerned, not only did the government act, but also on the Defence Committee, the US side's agreement that Israel could approach this, the sale, has shown. It is also granted approval from the American side that Croatia can access that plane and look at all that equipment and all these installations. The contract also states that the Israeli side is obliged to ensure that agreement. Also, American officials from the State Department, the Pentagon, Lockheed Martin, have been saying for months that they have no obstacles, no obstacles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129380	I thank my esteemed colleague Tudjman for his reply. I'd like to ask my esteemed colleagues to lower their tonality a little, and if they have any debates to resolve outside the assembly. We're continuing the debate. Dear colleague Angelko Striker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129381	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, from the very interpretation of the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the conduct of the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the acquisition of a squadron of multi-purpose fighter aircraft, it is evident that it was signed by only 16 SDP representatives. This should certainly be welcomed because there is the strongest opposition party that has managed to bring together as many as 16 of its representatives, send a clear message to the Croatian public that they still exist and that not all their representatives have been transferred to other constituencies. I therefore believe that the collection of these 16 signatures is indeed an extraordinary success for the SDPs, and an even greater success is that only half of these signatories have responded to defend their proposal here in the assembly. So much for the initiative itself. And now what about the purchase of fighter aircraft? Each sovereign, independent, internationally recognised state has an obligation to protect its airspace. It can do it in two ways. Either pay one of the neighbouring states to protect her airspace, or have her combat air force. I think we're all, or at least most of us, to protect our airspace with our own fighter air force. Since I am a member of the Assembly Defence Committee, I would first point out that I would do the same thing again or support the process of obtaining a squadron of fighter aircraft. The procedures and competition itself were really clear and transparent and no one had any objections or complaints about them. On two occasions, the Assembly Committee discussed this for the first time on 24 December 2017 and then on 13 December 2018. Both times are unanimous, and this means the votes of the SDP members are supported by the government's efforts. Department of Defense in the activities of the acquisition of fighter aircraft. The selection parameters were the price, interstate agreement, characteristics and capabilities of the aircraft and the economic cooperation package. The most concrete and complete offer was Israel’s. I am therefore surprised that it is those who are often called upon under quotes to the rule of law that do not call on official documents. a concrete offer, already on the paper. But since these representatives are in great care over the competition, the question is, how is it that they are not concerned about the current state of combat aviation? How come they didn't ask how the MiGs were remounted and how many were in use? I note that during the entire Homeland War, we were shot down by 3 fighter aircraft in all military-related operations, and the former SDP government of Prime Minister Milanovic and Defence Minister Kotromanovic managed to land 3/4 of the fighter aircraft with the MiG's remont. In this business, the damage is estimated at 100 million kuna, while there is no direct financial damage. In addition, we can get them without rush because the duration of the MiGs is reportedly until 2024. When we talk about the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, I stress that in only 2 years, a big step has been made in the very material rights of their members, in their training, equipment and weapons, in their new operational accommodation in Vukovar, Sinj, Ploča and Varazdin, that our officers, officers, soldiers, soldiers in peace missions are being sent to all products of Croatian producers, that there is a reserve, that the most complex exercise since the end of the Homeland War, “Velebit 18,” that the army has been of exceptional assistance to civilian institutions in natural disasters: fires, floods, snowstorms, etc. It is evident from all of this that the defence portfolio is well-led, that all of this system needs further support because it is crucial for our defence and national security. That's why the Ministers are very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129382	I thank my fellow uncle. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol. Here you go. Excuse me, fellow Falcone. [[Thank you very much.../]] My bad. Infringement of his colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129383	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. The representative should talk about the topic of debate. I mean, buddy, I really appreciate you giving us lessons. But then I can also tell you that you've read a text so well written by some HDZ spin doctor while we're talking about it, and the facts will show time. It also shows what my colleagues are saying, these are facts. You have a nice reign.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129384	Comrade Hajdukovic, I understand that you have the need to speak, that you already have three replicas, and then you find ways to say something. So, you misused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. We're moving on. Here we go again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129385	I think now, Vice President, that you have injured Article 238. So I made it clear why I refer to it and that my colleague did not stick to the subject. You said I abused the Rules of Procedure. I didn't. So I didn't give a political speech. I said what's wrong with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129386	Dear colleague, I have done nothing to harm the Rules of Procedure, and you are not the one who determines it by virtue of the rule of law. In 239, I now give you a warning. We're moving on with our work. Dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129387	Thank you, thank you very much, finally. Well, fellow Striker, you mentioned in your discussion that we probably all agree on the need to keep the Air Force, but I'm not quite sure because if you look at the SDP amendments to the state budget for 2019, which is practically, which the military aircraft funds should have been reduced to less than half, I wouldn't say that they really want it, the second thing they're pouring crocodile tears about is that the contract isn't signed, etc., but if you look at what they're doing, you'll see that their motives are actually a little different. The other thing I wanted to say is, their whole story comes down to three things, one email, one non-paper or a white paper and a statement from the American ambassador. Now, after these e-mails and after that non-white paper, the assistant defence minister Krstic was in the United States, talking to the US foreign minister's assistant, who said there would be no problem. And as for the ambassador's statement, he later explained and explained that It's not responsible, so the whole story falls into the water. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129388	.../college Falcon/... Answer, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129389	Thank you. Comrade Sokol, in my debate, I stressed that every country is obliged to protect its airspace, it can repeat it in two ways or pay the neighbors, or have its own military air force. I would be very interested to know that given their amendments where they suggested that the total, so, the opposition proposed an amendment of 2 billion and 300 million kuna, do they advocate that we have a military air force, and if it were to be decided which country next door would guard our skies, I would be very interested in whom they would choose, for Hungarians or Italians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129390	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129391	Thank you very much, fellow Uncle, Uncle, excuse me. One simple question should be answered which I am not sure you will be able to answer, given that it has been written to you by someone else who deals with the brewery and who is probably working here and here, is allowed by Minister Krstičevic, but answer me a very simple question which is also a question of this whole impelation, which is also a question of the citizens of the Republic, if until some month, by the 11th month it was okay, what has been wrong since then? So, as fellow Sokol says, there were papers and e-mails and contacts and going to America, going to Israel, and you didn't answer your personal question, and now you're switching to moments because it's your spin, but you didn't answer your personal question, why did it go wrong? And that's the basic question, not a single discussion today. She did not answer that question [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129392	.../college Mrssic/... Answer, fellow Striker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129393	My friend Mrsic, I've always been consistent with myself, from day one to day I'm in the same political option, and that's HDZ, so since 93, I've never changed the political colors that you and I won't, and that's the first part. The second part, therefore, was called by the Republic of Macedonia and the bid arrived, the most acceptable was Israeli, which had the most points and means, the government, the ministry, made a decision according to the competition and the tenders received, and not according to the news reports.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129394	Thank you, fellow Striker. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Hajdukovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129395	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. He's been injured. 238, I think I'm glad that my colleague points out his personal judgments about his colleague and his political orientation, but I don't think this is absolutely a topic of debate and insults the dignity of his colleagues, he's chosen by some votes, as well as by him and his right to decide how he will use them, and that he will verbalise his political afilia, as well as any of us. So, I think this really, fellow Vice President, if you're going to kick me out now and say that I can't judge about it, then kick me out, but then tell me that you're breaking the Rules of Procedure, is this business? This is a business matter. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129396	I thank my colleague Hajdukovic, you're partly right about the subject, but I don't see any disrespect and violation of the Rules of Procedure, so I won't throw you out. We continue to work, we have another replica, dear colleague Franco Vidovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129397	My colleague, Strick, therefore, doubts whether the SDP is supporting the acquisition of fighter aircraft, and I say you have doubts as to whether the SDP is providing support for the acquisition of fighter aircraft, and you still have a problem with the procedure. So, the Committee doesn't vote on bids, the Committee gives prior consent, we're talking about a parliamentary committee, which I'm a member of, and it's not true that no one has spoken because I've been talking for some year now, if you hold that I'm nobody, okay, that's your experience, I don't think I'm anybody, and I haven't had a chance on the board to talk because at that point I was on the official trip because of HS, both times. Now, that's it, and as far as I'm concerned, I can see that your problem with the procedure is even bigger because you think that there are only 16 MPs behind this interpretation, did you hear what the others are saying? Do you hear what the public is saying to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129398	I thank my colleague Vidovic. My fellow Uncle's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129399	I'm really looking forward to having a few votes behind this, which will be confirmed tomorrow most likely in the vote. Comrade Franco, you're a member of the Defense Committee. The Republic of Croatia is getting fighter planes, you didn't come to any session when it was debated, and now you're teaching everyone here. So why didn't you come to the meetings, say your position, your opinion, stand up to it? If I may, then, you could express your position, opinion, go to the Committee or the Department of Defense and look at the documentation and come here prepared. [[Intruder President: Please colleague Vidovic]] But you came completely unprepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129400	Thank you, fellow Striker. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Petar Škorić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129401	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, dear colleagues and colleagues. One of the main foundations of this government was the equipment, modernisation of the reconstruction of the Armed Forces and the return of dignity to the Croatian soldier, as the basis of the national security strategy. So it has been shown from the very beginning, and since the takeover of Minister Krstičević at the Ministry of Defence that it is not about any declarative move or PR, or anything like that, but we have gone hard with concrete steps to restore dignity to the Croatian soldier. The armed forces today, and the Armed Forces some years back, so there are two completely different stories. What is the real picture of the situation of the Croatian army, or in the first row of the state government's relations with the Croatian army today? I don't think a clearer picture should be presented than an unseen historical fiasco with a MiG remont to extend the same duration over a few years. About this disgraceful story, there was a lot of things in the media, I think it's best not to talk about it because the story was being dragged through and that the Croatian Air Force was being abolished, that our skies were being monitored by some other foreign aviation, that the defence was no longer being paid to invest, that someone else would take better care of us than ourselves, and we witnessed ourselves that it was from countries that lost that ability, therefore, only Albania who in the region, who failed to return it. This is a picture of the overall lethargy situation, including in the defence context. It's these stories, and these sad images have driven this government to make a turn, to go a whole new direction that we take risks and that we should have gone a long time ago. The Croatian army was to be modernised, Croatian soldiers were to be equipped, and in the first place it was set as a priority to retain the ability of Croatian Air Force to do so, must survive and no one else can better control the Croatian sky than Croatian pilots. Not only did Croatia go for the first time in the procurement process of this type, but it also marked a clear positive precedent. Since the very beginning of the procedure, we have been witnessing that the leader is clearly, professionally, legally and transparently. This process has also preserved the public interest, but here is the interest of national security. Any fact, any relevant information was available, offers for the purchase of multi-purpose combat aircraft were collected on several sides, and unanimously, so I can also say plebiscitarianly, the best and most qualitative offer was chosen at that time. What is most important to us from the beginning to the end of the procurement process, the first and last words had, I underline, the profession. Croatian pilots, members of the Croatian Air Force, who can best assess, and who best know what our military needs are. I am personally opposed to any pushing into political action, and I accept that in various political issues, there may and must be a variety of political views, but I remind you that in defence and national security, there can be no different attitudes. They are the first of our colleagues and fellow MPs to support the modernisation, promotion and equipment of the Croatian Army, which the Croatian military considers to be the cornerstone of the defence of national security, and who believe that as such it deserves special status and state investment. The second group is the one that we have had the opportunity to hear often lately, which has wished for this situation and could hardly wait to add in their poor and no political rating a few promotions of support, which do not consider that the Croatian army needs modernisation and equipment, and that the Croatian army would prefer to see again in the 2013 routine, to be humiliated, defeated and disgraced. In conclusion, and most importantly, make sure that the Croatian army, that such a Croatian army, thanks to the numerous moves of this government, will never look again. The Croatian military will receive a multi-purpose fighter aircraft that it deserves and needs. The Croatian Army will be proud both of its head and of this defence minister, and under the leadership of this government, will continue to advance every day, and for all those who mind, let them suffer freely in the wind of a political opposition in which, because of these and these attitudes, fortunately, they will remain for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129402	I would like to thank my colleague Skoric. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129403	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 238 has been injured. My colleague, shame may be upon you. You will tell you how I desire the Croatian army. Shame may be upon you. I was in Osijek when grenades fell on him, shame on you might be, I want a humiliated Croatian army? So I don't want to sit in the same room that you're sitting in, and you're saying things like that to a Croatian representative who's been elected to Croatian votes. It's a shame. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129404	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. Dear colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129405	Shame, shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129406	Dear colleague Hajdukovic. So, I ask you nicely to calm down your passions, lower your passions, don't get nervous, it wasn't as much as you intonated it, nor were there injuries to the Rules of Procedure, For this reason, because of your abuse, [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: It was.]] colleague, because of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, I give you a warning by taking away the words until the end of this debate [[Intruder Domagoj Hajduković: Say.]] Please, colleague, please, [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: Thank God, I cannot speak the kind of Croatian army I want.]] On the basis of Article 241(2), I am moving you from the session of the Parliament to the end of today. [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: Shame on me.]] Please leave Please leave,.../Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic:... [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: I will go myself.']] With people like that. Please leave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Leave Assembly [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: incomprehensible.]] Incomprehensible/... [[Intruder Domagoj Hajdukovic: I'd love to, because I don't want to be]] Thank you. Incomprehensible/... [[Intruder Domagoj Hajduković: You are a Croatian defender, you should be the Intruder Domagoj Hajduković:... and not me, I lived like a child, shame can be, shame, laugh]] We continue, continue to work, respected, colleague Hajdukovic, respected, we have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Angelko Strick, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129407	I give up, you've already solved everything and said it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129408	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129409	Thank you very much, Mr. Škorić, you have read your report well, which you have probably written for days in the creative environment of brewers in HDZ, and that is okay, you should also have that kind of resourcefulness to read 4-5 pages, and what you have read is really embarrassing and saddened to get here support and approval to call other parties, other colleagues, and to call on the least, those more basic emotions with lies that are not detestable, but to lead to such situations as our representatives that you insult, demean and humiliate here, it is regrettable that the chairman allows you to do so. How can you call an MP in HS that he doesn't want us to have a country of quality, military quality and society like everyone else would? wanted, wanted to have. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] So, it's unfortunately HDZ and she An emotion that brings us back 20 years. [[Employer: A colleague of Maras]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129410	Comrade Maras, thank you, please be careful in time, and do not belittle fellow MPs in your replica, but rephrase them. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129411	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so colleague Maras has injured an officer. In 238 and is already one only in a series of SDPs who insult others, tell them that others write, speak, etc. I personally think it is commendable that MPs write, speak and prepare for debates, unlike fellow Maras, who is an expert on all topics, and has never likely read any, any letters of material he has received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129412	My colleague Sokol, therefore, I have already warned my colleague not to demean anyone, therefore, there was no need for your violation of the Rules of Procedure and neither can you demean anyone and the foundation of the article. In 239, I give you a warning. Dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129413	You gave a warning... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129414	And that's the reason? Thank you very much. We are moving on to the next line, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, and I apologize, and we have a reply from my colleague Škoric to the replica of his colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129415	Thank you very much. Well, here, dear colleague, I've been in the armed forces for a long time, and I know what their status was, and I've been going through military stations all over the Republic of Croatia together with the Minister of Defense, and I've seen what we've seen when we took over the government, and the Croatian soldier was humiliated in the conditions in which he worked, the funds he had, and what did I say wrong? It is this government that restores pride and dignity, achieves people's material rights, improves their conditions, and you, if you cared about the truth, would then not propose 6 amendments from, with 315 million kuna to be removed from the MORH budget, so that is your contribution and that is your struggle for the Croatian Army and for the armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129416	I would like to thank my colleague Skoric. I once again, colleagues, please, I ask you nicely and appeal to peace in the Assembly and to stick to the subject and those who respond to the replica and those who set up the replicas. Here you go, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129417	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Škorić, you have now said that the Air Force must survive, that this government will enable this government and that this government is working on it and that it is restoring pride and dignity, and that we do not want it. Well, exactly the opposite of that, you were talking about yourself, because if this government gets planes that it's been getting for the last year, you've been feeding it to our Air Force, you'll never see a plane. You have now shown with your parts how you are getting planes, and we have proposed this amendment because we trusted you to complete your purchase in 2018, so that you will not need these money for 2019, so we have suggested it, but this government and this ministry with Minister Krstičević at the head are threatening the survival and future of the Croatian Air Force because if they get planes like so far, it's almost over, we won't have a plane.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129418	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. Answer, Comrade Škorić, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129419	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Djujic, at least you were invited to sing to us here. I don't know what you're talking about, so all the time, so you're expressing concern, so if you've expressed in the past, what situation in the armed forces we've found, that you're taking down almost half of the MORH budget and saying you're in favour of armed forces, I'm afraid of your concern about the situation in the armed forces.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129420	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Zeljko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129421	Thank you very much. Today, we are listening here by HDZ from the Deputy Prime Minister, the prime minister, about the importance of obtaining fighter aircraft that are important for the sake of national security. Tell me, colleague Škorić, in your one demagogue act, you laminate a lot of steam about combat aviation, who will be protected by this combat air force, and how long has this potential purchase of aircraft kept citizens in the Republic of Croatia? You are talking about raising the dignity and pride of Croatian soldiers of armed forces, I ask you why we did not direct these money to raise the dignity of Croatian teachers, Croatian doctors, nurses, to get a helicopter service and thus increase the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, tourists, members of NATO, and no citizen of the Republic will remain in the Republic of Croatia because of your fighter aircraft.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129422	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129423	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Jovanovic, I'm glad you're exposed, and you, and your party, and you've practically said now that you're questioning the ability of the Croatian Air Force. You brought this question a few years ago looking for who would guard the Croatian sky and who else to pay for it, and we are all aware of not so close to the past and all that, therefore, this government will certainly do everything to keep that ability and do not spread the population and talk about other problems in Croatian society, because security is number one, and so it is, there is no price.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129424	Thank you for your response, fellow Skoric. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Dr Branimir Bunjac. Here's your pal, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129425	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So, what do we have here today? We have an attempt to justify the impossible, an attempt to justify something that cannot be justified in any way, which goes even to the level of caricature, so we hear, for example, Minister Krstičic that the failure of the business with Israel has strengthened Croatian-Israeli relations, it really has to enter into the anthology of political statements, or we have heard right now of Agent Skoric, who in a referendum from the time of Titus's pioneers, read that this government will acquire new planes and strengthen the Croatian army. So those in 2/3 of their mandate failed to buy even old buckets, but in the remaining third, they're going to buy me less, not more than new planes. So give me my men. Is that for real? Our army is not strong, stable and proud, but our army is one of the weakest in the world. The North Korean army is twenty times stronger than our army, although it has five times the budget, that state. There's certainly no such circuses as we do, so get one of their advisors, I guarantee you they'll fix the situation with both planes, and with tanks three times better than you. We have been telling you from the beginning, before all the MPs, before all the media, that there will be nothing out of this business, and not so much because of the sloppyness, incompetence, the creaminess, but primarily because of the corrupt activities. And both sides, both from the Croatian side, both from the Israeli side, and the Americans won't let you because the Americans have their jobs monitored by Congress very firmly and very responsibly, and from the beginning it was known. That's what even a Branimir Bunjac knew to you on 18.10, here in Parliament I was talking about, there's a phonogram so listen up. And you didn't know, and you have all, all possible ministries available, all possible money, all possible contacts, you have your representatives at NATO headquarters in Brussels, Washington, I don't know where everything, and you didn't know. So who are you lying to? You gentlemen lied, you knew everything, but you insisted on an impossible job. Why did you insist? Well, because you expected a personal benefit from it. No benefit for Croatia, benefit for you personally. And it's not the first time, and, and you don't have to mention it, and you, the remont plane in Ukraine, was certainly a failure. Here, ask Mr Krstičević, what happens to Croatian patrol ships? Let him say it. What's going on with those ships, how they're made, can these ships sail? You know what kind of circus was made? In these ships are built-in biker engines, these ships can't sail at all', four years late to purchase ships so that eventually they have ship-baggers, completely unusable, dumped money. It's the work of our ministry. There, since 1992, or which, persistently for public procurement in a corrupt way, is affected by the worst kind and therefore your Croatian army is weak, and that is why the Croatian state is weak, and that is why no one wants to deal with that state, you have to deal with it. Except, of course, the Ukrainians, and I don't know any desperate people like that. Says Minister Krstičević, I've been working professionally, so what does that mean I've been doing professionally? He worked and Al Capone professionally, he was very professional, super professional. And the result of his work? What are the results, that's what we're asking you, where are the planes? We got planes, yeah, right? We don't have, therefore, the results are nothing, it's seen by a small child in lower grade primary school, there's no plane, someone's got to take responsibility. Who's gonna take responsibility? A representative of the bush, is he guilty? Who? This cook in the Parliament, shall we punish her? We'll punish whoever's in command, the great warrior who cries in front of the press, but in this government there's no responsibility, you can do as I please, at least her Prime Minister says. It is possible to do what you want about the privatisation of Agrokor, the privatisation of the shipyard, the privatisation of INA and a whole series of other cases of conversion and privatisations that have literally driven this people crazy, and to throw the state and the economy on a beggar stick. And we finally have to ask ourselves what these planes are for, so you HDZ gentlemen said, so we're going to join NATO, now it's going to be cheap, nothing else will have to pay, we're being protected by 3,900 jet planes, and now we have to have 3,912. We have 10,000 atomic bombs, we can burn all nine planets in the solar system, but we also need these Israeli exhibits for the Technical Museum. It protects us four million soldiers, we can beat Russia, China, India together, but we have to spend another billion on planes, 500 million to buy and another 500 million to maintain. Nowhere in the world there's a country where a jet plane flies, and it's over 30 years old, and we're buying planes 35 years old and then it says watch out for the Prime Minister in an amazing restatement, these planes will protect us for the next 25 years. So give you HDZ gentlemen when you're so smart with these used cars so why don't you buy used cars for your government, here you are now buying for your ministries for this EU and buying old golf courses for 30 years. I don't know what the name of the Zubaka is or who you're driving for the next 25 years, and here you have a nice savings that's what's called a "good for the people" and you'll be very comfortable, very comfortable in those cars. You can drive fast, say, almost like a tram of this, but see, you're not gonna do it. We were able to deal with these billions of EUR that you said so many nice things in Croatia and problems and hungry children, for 25 years we could give children free textbooks, we could open so many, so many jobs, and we buy airplanes. And you know why, just to satisfy the American side that will use this very well, remember what the final product of yours, your actions, and that will be to force you to make a direct deal to buy more expensive planes than they were now, they'll make a nice use of this story. And then fine planes will come and fly over Knin or I don't know what Vukovar, Zagreb, and then a couple of small citizens will take out flags and wave, hungry belly of this without pensions, without decent salaries, without any justice or justice in particular in the judiciary, but there he will have a heart in place while he is tumbling an American brand-new or used any unnecessarily needed aircraft for any of us. That's your condition. And I'm very sorry that I live in a country where such things are done and that I live in a state where someone has no personal courage to take responsibility before it literally gets crushed in the elections or until his boss says I don't need you anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129426	Thank you, esteemed colleague Bunjac, we have a few replicas of esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129427	Thank you, Comrade Bunjac, for mentioning in your debate that some MPs, a few of them had reports like Titus's pioneers, I think that these are much less quality references than those made by Tito's pioneers, remind me more of that lady from North Korea Ri Chun Hi who when the rocket was launched excitedly shouts and praises her great leader. It's about that level, it looks at that level, and it's actually amazing that people have to come in this way prepared from the Pear Service Center and here to read instead of saying it the way they feel and really say what they're thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129428	I thank my colleague Maras for this replica that had nothing to do with the subject, the basis of Article 239. I'd like to give you a heads-up from my colleague Maras. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129429	Thank you very much, it's good to read the reports I support because basically we already have to be afraid that when we start talking about airplanes, we're gonna have to come up with this one with a helmet and a vest at a council session because we see that there are people in this hall who want to beat MPs, you can't show the plane, and if you happen to bring a toy, you can get the toy too. Therefore, I support to read these reports they are however trivial as they are compared to what might otherwise happen to you. Because here, some people here show anger, and anger is not a good emotion, anger shows in public means you're not able to control yourself, and who can't control himself can't even lead the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129430	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac, the next replica of his esteemed counterpart, Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129431	You, in your debate, pointed out a very significant problem that bypasses, which is the problem of corruption. Therefore, Croatia is falling steadily back in the fight against corruption, and non-transparent contracts that hide under the cover of transparency as Minister Krstičević repeatedly reiterated were certainly one of the important elements in making a decision on the acquisition of these 35-year-old aircraft, and I am interested in what you think about the former company, Minister Krstičević, founded a new company that was supposed to deal with the operations of aircraft and other equipment. Do you think that this has something to do with the purchase of these old cans that should have been refurbished so often that the company known for its business with state firms would further increase its income and profits, and thus all those involved in this brilliant epic venture by Minister Krstičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129432	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Jovanovic, the response of his esteemed counterpart, Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129433	Thank you, well-respected representative Jovanovic, even if it did not happen that there was no KING ICT company, the Israeli company that sold us the planes came under investigation in 2017 for corruption and 13 of its employees were arrested and taken to an investigative prison that happened in April 2017 in order to arrange a job with the same company only 3 months later. So how is it possible to even negotiate business with a company that's being accused of corruption? Also involved in this business is Aero Partner, who was a key intermediary in the refurbishing of aircraft in Ukraine. So if these HDZ gentlemen are already so critical of that remont, why did they include the same mediator in the business of getting fighter aircraft F16s? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129434	I would like to thank my colleague Bunjac for his reply. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129435	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that there has been a lot of talk here about national security, but I think we from the Living Wall that until one individual is safe, even the state can't be sure. By its laws, our country and its regulations and its rules are actually ruining its citizens systematically. Getting these planes won't solve our citizens' problems. This job has now failed, which I would dare say is actually the best thing that has happened, because this job in my court was not even supposed to come, but even if we get 100 or 1,000 new F16 planes with all the accompanying equipment, pilot equipment, training, even if we adjust our airports to those planes, etc., even if we get tons and tons of state-of-the-art weapons, missiles, bombs, which are already missiles of any kind. What does that mean to the citizens who are moving out of Croatia, what does that mean to the citizens who are in the blockade? Finally, this latest disgrace by the Croatian government is that it has placed its jurisdiction or its laws under the EU cap and that the EU is abolishing the Croatian law on the integrity of the loan agreement with unauthorized creditors. So we can't make our own laws in our country that's the whole point of the story, and what's the consequence of that is that all the people who run the disputes about the integrity of the loan agreement with the RBA cooperatives will lose those disputes and that there will be a mass of dissuasions. Instead of having the government deal with this issue, because first it's a roof over your head, let's solve people's roof issue over your head, and then let's discuss other issues, but this government is about planes, planes being discussed day and night, and there's no discussion about the roof over your head by this government. This government doesn't think about how to save those people who are one foot on the street, is that a shame? For 5 months, oil workers don't get paid as they belong, 3 months they get minimum wage, the last 2 months they get nothing. So what do these people live on? But that's not what you're interested in. That's not the problem for this government. Many Croatian soldiers leave the Croatian Army you know why, it's not because we don't have military planes most modern, they leave because the salaries are none, Croatian soldiers' salaries must be raised at least 30%, minimum for these people to be satisfied. If the state doesn't have enough money to pay its soldiers, which is then used by these military planes, so who will stay in the Croatian Army, with which you think you keep military pilots, who will drive those planes, is ever wondering, so people from the defense system are running away because your salaries are nothing. And you know what happens, by NATO's directive you send our soldiers to the Russian border, but you don't want to pay them adequately, and then it's hard to find volunteers who want to go to the Russian border and then what happens, people tell me, soldiers that if they refuse to go to the Russian border, then move somewhere away from home. Is it possible, then, is it possible that the army punishes its soldiers in a way that drives them as far away from home as possible because they don't want to go beyond any other border? Well, that's a shame. You're running disciplinary processes for soldiers for telling the state's secret, you know why, you know why you're having disputes. So because people wrote that your food was nothing, so a soldier who publicly complained that food in the Croatian Army was nothing, that it was no good, you were running a military court against it, and at the same time documents about getting a plane classified girls out, there's no military court for that. The defence ministry has been fully politicised in the service of a policy with Croatia's interests in the last place. Instead of the Croatian soldier having a 30% higher salary, having top-of-the-line food, protecting the Croatian country from being on the Croatian border, you sent that Croatian soldier to Afghanistan, sent him to Lebanon, sent him to Lithuania, why? What do we have there? The war that we are fighting in Croatia is economic, and the countries that represent us as great friends are the countries that rob us, and you know it yourself. And that economic robber that happens on the legal path, because I don't know how else to call it that we give 35 billion kunas a year to pay off the foreign debt, 35 billion. For membership in the European Union another 4 billion, foreign banks still draw a billion. Over 40 billion kuna per year Croatia gives out, and then when we get to the Pelješki Bridge 2 billion, then you figure out all the bells, and the fact that 40 billion goes west every year doesn't matter to you. And then you're still boasting about buying airplanes that are 30 years old, so your colleague Bunjac pointed out to you in hypocrisy, if these planes are good after 30 years, that are as top-notch as you praise them, so why don't you buy cars for the government that are 30 years old, some reparated, repaired, maybe even as you say modernized? Here's a modernized 30-year-old car, you take the tape recorder out, put it on tape, now it's got a USB, a MP3, and I don't know what else, if that's the solution you've got. Why don't you buy 30-year-old cars for the government, change tires, put new tires on, here, put new covers in, in the vehicle, why don't you do that? Well, because you know that a 30-year-old car, the question is how much of its maintenance costs, that you know that it's going to spend a lot of money, you know that it's not reliable after all, and the car goes down my people's roads. And the planes? They're flying thousands of miles, and you're planning on using those planes for another 25 years, my people. So are you aware of what it means to fly a 55-year-old plane? So did you ever hear that, that the country of some country, that is, that some country has 50-year-old military planes? Is that, I think, yes, the question is whether that's what North Korea and Albania have He says a colleague might have North Korea, so are those your role models, are those your role models? [[Intruder: Korea has.]] You may be ashamed, you may be ashamed. Shame because you scare people with imaginary enemies, because you're developing a story like that that aliens are going to attack us tomorrow, so as we have to defend ourselves, we have to get those planes. And the fact that RBA, an Austrian credit cooperative today or tomorrow will delegate hundreds or thousands of our citizens, this government doesn't care, that Hanžekovic, a law firm, is doing hundreds of thousands of people for HRT, or assuming that he is doing so, and since HRT annually sends 100,000 commissions and that they are one of the law offices that works for them, it's not impossible to do so either, why don't you protect them from these tasks? You are unable to protect the dignity of the citizens or the soldiers, and you are talking about some god-awful security of our country, the power of our country, but the greatest burglary for you is surely about the god-awful great reputation of Croatia. I said on the example of Juncker who pinches Prime Minister Plenkovic, Tajani of the President of the European Parliament who says that Istria and Dalmatia are Italian, and Trump where Colinda can reach the fence of the White House, or if he's pushed somehow to take a picture near him, is that your respect? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129436	Thank you, dear colleague Pernar. We have several replicas, dear colleague Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129437	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you spoke about the small salaries of Croatian soldiers, and there you opened a good topic, and not only Croatian soldiers to have small salaries, and that they should be raised at least 30% immediately, because this is the concern about how this government is taking care of a Croatian soldier who speaks to their colleagues on the other side there, but also Croatian doctors have small salaries, Croatian police officers have small salaries, that is the general policy of this government, and not only that, but they are not even paid overtime that should be the law. And then cops and doctors have to sue their country to get what they own under the law, and that's this government's policy, and that's the government's biggest capital concern, and that's people. And, the military doesn't, first of all, make up people, the police make up people, and this government doesn't care about them, not taking care of them, doesn't care about the whole system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129438	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Answer me, Comrade Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129439	I will read to you the article entitled Soldiers indignant, they are the pride of Croatia, and they eat real splendours, steaks called veins and potatoes called raw materials, tough boilers, wooden gnocchi and tough chicken, unroasted mills, haired without taste, all this food is on the menu in Croatian barracks. And he says, following the published text on Croatian soldiers who eat Italian beans and Serbian juice, we received anonymous reports from soldiers with photos of food being prepared in the military, not to mention the horrors they are eating. And that army of ours, and one that has no fair food for the soldiers, and for a fair salary, that story about getting planes for half a billion dollars, so it can be a shame, no cheeks and no shame. Let them look those soldiers in the eyes, who quit in the army and leave the army. And let them wonder why.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129440	I thank my colleague Pernar for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129441	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Pernar, I agree with one part of your exposure, is when we look at what is the most important resource of a country. They're people. And what happens to us today, 65,000 educated young people leave Croatia annually, and now let's see what happens in the next 10 years. Look at the Dalmatian Zagora, how it's being destroyed, defending reservations without people, it looks. And what about national and people leaving? Those who certainly don't vote for this government are leaving. Those who are now in love with a number of ministries and state administrations vote. As for national interests, today we are discussing planes and the defence of the Croatian sky, the defence of the Croatian mainland. And as yesterday, with our paws fell INA, one national company, just in the debate, we handed it over completely to the Hungarians, so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129442	Thank you. My colleague Pernar's answer, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129443	Here, I'll read to you Mr. Pranic, a guard soldier, gets bread, canned cans, fish and juice from two children, and here's the dinner of a Croatian soldier on guard. And what you said, crazy people are the most valuable resource and they're leaving. So I ask you, rhetorically, would you be ashamed to buy a helicopter for your community, and at the same time watch people leave it, move out. Of course not, you'd say that's crazy, which I'll need while people run. But this government doesn't wonder, they don't wonder, what is, they don't see a problem in people running out of the country. They're acting like Alistair in Wonderland. They've been lost in space and time. It's like they're eating those fungi of psychedelic, and they see things that don't exist and they're afraid of enemies they don't have, and at the same time, real enemies, Croatian peoples,... Bank [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They can't see. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129444	I thank my colleague Pernar, just to inform you, local self-government units, I can't buy combat helicopters, helicopters well. ... Interesting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129445	Thank you very much, Reverend Pernar, for asking an interesting question, who will fly on those planes, beware of the program that the Israelis have offered us, any plane could fly 100 hours a year. In 100 hours a year, you can't even train a pilot, let alone put planes in the position that they should have the protection of the Croatian sky. So 100 hours, we were supposed to spend a billion euros to have 100 hours a year on planes and on the defense of Croatian airspace. That's not enough, not even to say, that kind of reconnaissance kind of, that's enough there, so the plane goes up, turns on the engine and shuts it down. Without a minimum of 400 hours a year, these planes, and even pilots, can't accomplish the function they're meant to be for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129446	Thank you for your response, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129447	Dear Representative Bunjac, you said that training on these planes will hardly be possible, but it is a matter of purpose, does Croatia need NATO? Do Croatia need military planes for half a billion dollars, while children in schools starve, while soldiers are more hungry than they are sick and leaving this country. I personally know soldiers who have left the defense system for small wages and are working now in Germany or elsewhere, so isn't that a shame? Isn't that a shame to my people? If a Croatian soldier had to go to a foreign country instead of living normally in his country, you led people to it. You've led people to it and you're moving on with the same policy. That's a shame, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129448	Thank you, colleague Pernar, for your reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129449	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've been arguing all day about planes and watching us and citizens in these late hours, and it's not clear to anyone why it's all gone down. Because the government didn't offer a single excess answer, why at the end of the day the planes weren't bought. Both the government and the prime minister of Plenkovic, in particular Minister Krsicevic, had for months assured Croatian citizens that Croatia had concluded the business of the century, decided to buy from Israel used fighter aircraft, and today it is clear to all and even before and during this debate, that it is a fraud of the century. And that the state of Israel has deceived us. Regardless of all the excuses we received from the directors at the Ministry of Defence, I expected that at least the defence minister would come to Croatia and apologize to Croatian citizens, and all this could have been avoided that the state, state insinuations were responsible and consciously doing their job. And that's the theme of this interpretation, the theme is that this interpretation, too, was to be answered by the government, which is why it was addressed to the government, that the Government gave the answer, that the state institutions worked consciously, responsiblely in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. The whole business is worth about half a billion dollars and certainly Croatia with this outcome has become a shameful position in front of the international community, as the issue of transparency and legality of the procedure for the purchase of aircraft has been raised. And here you can, on the side of HDZ, no matter how much you use spins, by transferring responsibility to moments, to Ukraine, to the fact that in the newspapers of Israel and America, this affair has not been given any meaning, so of course, what they care about, that they tried to sell us something they shouldn't have, that they shouldn't have sold. It's already enough that the defence minister resigns. Here I'm going to remind you of the Baxter affair, where the health minister, although she had no direct responsibility for what happened, did not have to remind me of the Baxter affair, what was happening and as a moral act, because it happened in her vault, because it didn't respond in time, she resigned. There was also no response in time, fortunately, no one died, but we did not finish what Minister Krsticevic and the prime minister had been telling the citizens the whole time that he was coming, here is the job of the century, we did the best we could, the Republic of Croatia will have fighter planes, however, of which, nothing. What's also significant, what I've asked my colleagues, I hope Minister Krsticevic will give me an answer, I have some questions I'm going to ask him, is why did he not respond to this famous document that came from the United States? It turns around in a way that this document was by the U.S. just temporary permission to look at planes, to see how planes look, but if exactly what we saw in the media that this paper has the other side, that it's not only the first page, but there's another side where the United States has very clearly warned the Republic of Israel about what it needs to do, what we need to ask the Israelis to finish the job. Ambassador, the US ambassador is on several occasions, at least according to media reports, which was not denied by the Croatian authorities that he had problems with the purchase of fighter aircraft, and yet he wanted to and pushed his head into the sand and wanted to buy planes in any way, and you know why? Because you've already told the citizens, you ran ahead of the ore and you wanted it to end, and it even went for the Croatian delegation to go to the U.S. to ask the Americans to give in to the Israelis, so it's not enough for the Israelis to do it, it's what they did, but we did it, too, so... Yeah, that's what brought the Americans to the issue of transparency. Why does the one who buys now go lobbying for the one who sells? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The collapse of this deal brought the Republic of Croatia into a shameful position in front of the international community and for Croatian citizens and the transparency of future purchases, if we are going to have to get planes anyway, I think it is necessary to answer 6 questions. Some questions are questions that citizens absolutely need to know about because their money is being spent. The first question is, did the government and Minister Krsticevic know about the US warning allegedly received by the president of the Republic of Croatia, if so, why not avoid the conclusion of this harmful business? If they did, what did they do about it, if they didn't know, which is why some of them, some part of the state's apparatus knew, and the Department of Defense didn't know? The second question is whether Israel will pay the Republic of Israel compensation for the failed competition and responsibility of the other party, such as the custom of any public competition. Of course, MORH is not legally required to carry out a public tender, but there is no obstacle for such a clause to be incorporated into the text of the competition. Is there such a clause in the tender, and if there is, how much damage there is, if there is no, why the Moreh, why the Moreh did the bidding without that safeguard clause, because then the relationship of the Israelites to us would obviously be different. What is the real price of the purchase of Israel's multi-purpose combat aircraft, the first official assessment we had by the MORH, Mr. Kristijan Jagodic claimed to be 475 million, and the US Statutes Department announced that it was worth 135 million. What is the price of the aircraft itself, so the plane as a plane, how much is the simulator, what is the price of the weapons, what is the price of the adjustment of our system, and what is the price of the training of our pilots? Is there a projection of how much the state budget would cost the operational use of these planes over the next 25 years, if there is, how much would it be a year and how much for the entire operating century? And the last question, if it had been realized, since you published documents that were classified, so you published them, that it wasn't a military secret, that this process was realised, that this contract was realised, what kind of industrial cooperation would bring a contract with Israel? What the Republic of Croatia would get apart from fighter aircraft in the offset even though the offsets can no longer be negotiated in these contracts because we are in the EU, but one form of cooperation between the state of Israel and the Republic of Croatia needs to be negotiated, because this is half a billion dollars. Is it agreed, is there any idea that such a part of the contract is contracted at all? The whole job was infamous and today you're trying to defend yourself with spins, and the only problem with this was that you took too early off with the announcement and that at that moment, and that you didn't realize that the job wasn't finished and that you were now trying to save Prime Minister Plenkovic, and that less Minister Krstičević than the indignity that one of the jobs that countries are solving without great problems failed that we were ashamed of the European community, that we were ashamed of the United States, and for all of that, the defence minister should resign. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129450	I thank my colleague Mrssic, we have a replica of dear colleague Damir Tomic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129451	Thank you, Vice President, you mentioned to Mrsic that he was missing a excessive response from the government to some questions. It does not surprise me at all because the government does not have a surplus response to some important things such as the standards of Croatian citizens. We are talking about the standard of soldiers, police officers, professors, pensioners, doctors and all other citizens, and the government has not taken care of that at all, and the question is, who are they going to defend at the end of their term of office? Maybe it would be too much to look at these figures, when we're already talking over the government's response and see that it's interesting this one, and we could see today, yesterday, that the production of Erbasa A380 is being withdrawn from production, which in roughly 600 passengers is driving, and the amount is somewhere like these planes that have failed, this and a very simple duck shows In view of his colleague's earlier words, I think more passengers are involved. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] 65,000 people 108 times 6 is about every third day Rbas can drive. [[Intruder: colleague Tomic.]] Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129452	Thank you, colleague Tomic, for your response, Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129453	Yes, if the government's response is read, and so is today Prime Minister Plenkovic's exposé, then it's just a list of what was going on in getting the plane but there's no answer and that's what's been going on all the time, and I believe that everything was transparent and that everything was fine, if everything was transparent, then it's very clear and I can give answers, but the answer isn't and it's always hanging in the air, if everything was worth it until I don't know 15. 11th and then all of a sudden, everything fell apart. Well, I haven't seen a single job at least I know, and I've been in a policy that ended that way for a long time. The premiums were announced, Minister Krsticevic announced, the planes came during the Storm, our pilots went to try out what it was like to fly on those fighter planes and suddenly washed everything away. Well... That's the answer we expect, why did it fail? [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129454	I would like to thank my colleague Mrsic for his reply, the next replica of the esteemed colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129455	Thank you very much, Vice President, so, Mrsic, it is embarrassing to hear you tell our minister that this was non-transparent and that this is the reason for his resignation. At least you should know and you could have read in all the materials that the whole procedure was extremely transparent and now you have responded to the replica and shown, that it was possible that it was transparent from the analysis of the ability, the presentation of offers, the evaluation, the increase of the defence budget, everything was in line with the Public Procurement Act, all of this happened in 2017, and you could also read that the first time the ministry, this ministry, after 27 years, received the unconditional opinion of the State Office for Audit, and you know very well how difficult it was to get, and that it was certain that any failures that such an opinion would have remained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129456	Thank you, colleague Mrsic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129457	Well, fellow Martinchev, you're defending yourself from something I didn't say, I said that there was a suspicion of transparency, I didn't say that it wasn't transparent, but that there was a question of transparency because there was no answer. Again, everything was fine until 15.11. After that, nothing is right and we give up, we give up combat planes. And that's the problem that's in this, this one. And of course the minister bears responsibility for it, that is, if he does not bear the prime minister, then his minister. I'm going back to the Baxter affair Professor Stavinic had no responsibility for people dying in dialysis, but she resigned because of a moral act and that's what's expected here Someone has to stand for, bear the burden of what's gone down, and it's gone down. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129458	I thank her, dear colleague Mrsic. We move on to the next debate, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, is not present, losing his right to debate. I'm setting a break by 10:00. [[It's the 21st 50 o'clock.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 22.01 HOURS]] MILIJAN BRKIĆ: Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session, following next up is the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129460	Thank you very much. We colleagues and colleagues have been discussing this topic for quite some time now that I think we have been following in the Republic of Croatia for some time and most of our fellow citizens have their own position. For the minister, this is the most successful job ever, so he said, the best business ever, the most successful job, if this is the most successful job, I'm afraid at all to think about what the less successful ones are, what it looks like are jobs that are less successful if this is the great success that our minister and our ministry have achieved. The entire Republic expects someone to show at least a grain of responsibility and take on a mistake, he says, we didn't do everything we could and take responsibility and take a step that would be right. And I, unlike the minister and my colleague Grbin, thinks the minister is no longer a soldier, he's a politician, if the soldier, a colleague of Grbin, the minister, would have resigned, would have taken responsibility for himself, but he's a politician and that HDZ politician who doesn't take responsibility and who doesn't want to answer for his mistakes to the Croatian people. This is the best evidence of a colleague and colleagues that our minister is no longer a soldier, but HDZ's real HDZ politician, so please don't call him a soldier anymore, he's a HDZ politician who doesn't take responsibility for his mistakes and what he said was supposed to be the biggest and most successful job in the Republic of Croatia, and in fact it turned into a fiasco, disgrace and ultimately discredited not only the Minister, Government, Prime Minister Plenkovic, but also the Republic. It's amazing for colleagues and colleagues that we've been here all day listening to two thesiss apparently imposed by HDZ piarists on their MPs to promote them. One is, it's the state of Israel, it's not our fault, they apologized though, there's no one heard it, I'd like to hear an apology and footage that we had with the press conference the opportunity to watch between colleagues from Israel and Minister Krstičević, I haven't heard any excuses, I've heard, most of all, what could be heard as the Republic of Croatia is not guilty, that nobody asked you, we asked where's the apology? You told us Israel would apologize, they didn't apologize. The second thing that is also being imposed in the debate, which is pointless and dazzling, is the story of moments, like moments don't fly, no, and then today we see the announcement of the Morh that there will be a struggle in a certain time over 10,000 meters etc. And they compare two incomparable things, the restoration of an old fleet that cost, beware of how much, one 35-40 times less than this job was, really impressive money, amazingly, it really can be compared, 100 million and 3.5 billion, so HDZ justice and explains its failed jobs. For the restoration of an old fleet that you can only restore in a way that you take and take offers of a few, I think one or two companies that are able to do this and probably with parts that must be from other markets locked up etc., it's patching up what you have, what's 30-40 years old to last a few more years in function and finally, those planes fly, yes. So HDZ has chosen that tactics, moments, business 35 times less valuable and the blame is the state of Israel, so it's always some other people's fault, we're never guilty, we're probably the best, at all we're the best, but we didn't end up with another thing, it doesn't cost anything. In the end and the ministry itself is sending a report that it's 600 000 kunas of cost that clearly represents nothing for the ministry, and the minister justifies it with some famous jobs that I don't know who they are and in particular, what it means, the minister we got, what you said, the drone command, you're going to have to explain it, please let us see those who run here from the Republic of Croatia with that, we're probably fighting ISIL because here are the pilots who operate those aircraft. So these are, look, people, they're stories without any basis, there's nothing there, so you know best because you're learning, no, so you know these terms much better than I do, fact, etc., but you know how to say fact, no, you learned it, so on the other hand, what I'm saying is that I'm sorry that the minister is not an officer and a soldier, but HDZ's politician, officer and soldier, when he's having a failure and when he doesn't do his homework, he takes responsibility. Did you hear the minister take responsibility for himself? Does an officer and a soldier seek responsibility elsewhere in the state of Israel, in the state of the United States, maybe Trump did it, maybe it was Pompeo? Who knows who's to blame. ... Mattis, yes, General Mattis may be guilty, and he's a soldier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So unfortunately, there's nothing here from military behavior and officer behavior. Then what do we get in return? We get intolerance, I would say, inappropriate disrespect for both the Parliament and the citizens through the behaviour of the Minister and the disabling of the Croatian Parliament where we should all now accept nothing has happened in these 2 and a few years without talking about these ridiculous insults of Skoric and society that like us, we do not want the Croatian Army and who knows what else with that man will not remember. But as a man would say, a pay phone puts up with everything, you can say anything and stay alive. So it is not strange, not for the first time or for the last time, that any such unsuspecting claims in the Assembly should be made. What we want is for people to behave responsibly, to represent their country responsibly, not to lie to their people, not to hope for a miracle that will not happen or for some lobbyists who may have to do the job under the grain and eventually do not do the job and then the Croatian citizens turn out naive because they believed Mr Krstic, Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ. This is ridiculous. This is a fiasco. This is the most unsuccessful job Croatia has ever done, not the most successful but the most unsuccessful. This deserves a resignation. This deserves political responsibility. This deserves the same people not to run a new procurement process again. This deserves to be said by Mr Krstic, Croatian citizens, I'm sorry, I made a mistake, I'm guilty, I can't do this job anymore, and that would be fair. It would be fair for you to act like that and take responsibility for your actions. This is how all adults in Croatia should work, not just ministers, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129461	I thank Mr. Maras for this debate. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ante Sanader, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129462	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the Honorable General and Minister. Dear colleague, I think it is very incorrect and unworthy of this House that you are calling here a minister and vice president of the government that he is not a soldier and that he is a soldier. You're not worthy, he's the general of the Croatian winning army, he's the commander, the war commander. In all civilized countries, such people are respected. You can call him a politician but who gives you the right to call him a soldier and commander of the generals of the Croatian Army and a victorious army? You're not worthy of that. And he's a politician, he'll show the election, and he'll show his credibility in the election, both you and him and me. And that's why you can call him, not as a soldier, because you have no right to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129463	I thank my colleague Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129464	And who are you, Comrade Sanader, to tell me what I am worthy of and what I am not? Are you some kind of moral verticalist in Croatia? Is there a need to look up to you? Because when you say Croatia stops and listens to what Ante Sanader says? Is that why you might be the archbishop of Christmas? Papa Franjo? Who are you? Why should I listen and take seriously what you say is worthy, who is not worthy? If you'd listened a little more carefully, you'd have heard that I said that Minister Krsticevic is a politician, that I don't consider him a soldier here but a politician. I'm making HDZ a politician who doesn't take responsibility when he makes a mistake. Don't put yourself in moral authority when you're not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129465	Thank you. Next replica, esteemed colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129466	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Maras, I understand your sarcasm because I said today, in the absence of arguments, of course you will say everything and say that the minister actually reaches for responsibility and takes responsibility for himself and resigns. The minister has taken responsibility for himself, and if you ask any soldier, he will tell you that he has brought pride back to the Croatian soldier for a series of things that have happened and actually created one security for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All those who remember from the past to the Republic of Croatia especially the recent recent recent recent recent recent history in the Republic of Croatia, people welcome every positive shift and this shift has been seen in one man. So to a soldier like you say, yes, a soldier, not a soldier, but a soldier and a brilliant commander and you know it, I know... And that's why we really need to talk about this with all due respect. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Upadica Brkic: Thank you, dear colleague Babić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129467	Answer, Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129468	I really don't understand whether you're using as a cloak, protecting anyone in the future who's going to make a mistake, making a moral mistake, so we have a general from HV who's made terrible mistakes in life. You want me to start counting? You know how many there are? General Norac, General Corrade, we have many such generals. So if you make a mistake, you can't naturally compare it to this, but if you were a soldier in the Homeland War, you owed our country, it doesn't mean automation that you can do whatever you want and that you're amnesty with any responsibility. I'm saying at this point that the minister has political responsibility and that you should step down. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129469	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras, for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129470	The Honorable Vice President, well-respected colleagues, is in fact hypocritical to say that a HDZ politician, along with the Deputy Prime Minister, does not want to resign, and this is the only government, this minister alone had guts, strength and had to launch something like that and say, here this country deserves to have its own planes. In addition, he had the guts to take responsibility, and even in case it didn't happen like, not by his fault, it didn't happen, and this politician HDZski is willing to bear everything that any of us and the people expect and we'll never feel less valuable, though, we'll try. to correct your mistakes. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129471	I thank my esteemed colleague Grodani Peric. Answer me, Comrade Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129472	I don't see it, ma'am. Ugly, I don't see it. So, the people are expecting a resignation, is resignation going on? Well, look, Mr. Ivić, you might not admit it to me, but I represent the people that, you may not see it in HDZ because HDZ always grabs everything that is Croatian patriotism, that is HDZ, everyone else has no right to say it, I think the opposite, that all Croatian parties can speak for the people and voters who chose them here, that there are defenders in all Croatian parties, that all Croatian parties wanted the Republic, what you think... HDZ law, it's just your pathetic mistake. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129473	I thank my colleague Maras. We move to a statement or closing word on behalf of clubs. On behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129474	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, members of the Government, esteemed colleague and fellow Members, the debate went the wrong way, obviously some defensive status is being freed from everything, and some, although defenders and soldiers, as their HDZ colleagues say, can be said to be hives, none of you have stood up in defense here at HS when the one who wasn't in the war, who got away with anemia, when he attacked the defenders, then you were not to be heard or seen, if we're going to talk about the defenders. I will make it clear here that the Most Representatives' Club will support the interpretation, as well as the conclusions from the interpretation that are proposed. Interpletion is a solid demonstration of the course of events that led to the collapse of business with the acquisition of fighter aircraft squadrons, consisting of a series of factographic data, including even a number of government officials' quotes, including here present, Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, and thus cannot be true that all the interpretation quotes are unfounded, unfounded and flat-rate, according to the government. On the contrary, colleagues and colleagues, I think we have much more reason to doubt the argument of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in its opinion brings us a story based on carefully selected facts and evidence of these facts. As for our efforts to obtain multi-purpose combat planes, unfortunately, there was no end to this approval, we are developing an analysis of the whole process, we believe that HS, too, will be discussed in HS. What's important on our part is that we had good intentions, why didn't that happen in the end? We will explain our impression in HS." Please all colleagues and colleagues to record this last sentence because it is obvious that the Government today, that the government has not discussed the facts today, but rather its impression of the facts. In view of this, I am personally much more inclined to bow down my faith to the allegations of impelation. You could go through all the chronology right now, but in this time of five minutes, I don't have that kind of time. What I must say is that, unfortunately, the contrary to what the government is suggesting, the Republic of Croatia has received a rainstorm throughout this process that has not passed undetected in international circles, and there is no justification for it, nor can the government transfer responsibility to anyone else. Getting a plane was a job that you got caught up in, collecting political points at which you boasted. It would be fair and fair to take responsibility now. The Republic of Croatia has been brought to the wall by the collapse of this business, and it has been brought into a situation in which for who knows which time at the last moment, 5 to 12, it will have to make a decision on such an important thing as the Air Force. I'm going to fail this job, and all those side jobs in the military and civil sectors that were to be realised with the state of Israel as a strategic military and economic partner have failed. The entire government has personally proven to be immature with such a complex, business, diplomatic and state-owned enterprise. As soon as you stepped out of your safe zone and left for the international scene, something got stuck. Now we're all back to square one, and you government gentlemen are offering us comfort to realize that in some new attempt, you'll be more successful because you've gained experience. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the price of your education for the Republic of Croatia is too high and too high.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129475	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129476	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grumo, persistently, is the injured Rules of Procedure. 238. A fellow Grmoy, no one's health status, the lameness, the lack of blood, the blindness, the deafness can be an argument in the debate to demean someone, and persistently, persistently in HS you repeat, it cannot happen anywhere except at MOST. One thing I ask you, that someone's medical status, don't be an excuse to hurt anyone, not you, not anyone else, is that relevant to weakness or any other exceptional status [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Health status. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129477	Comrade Bačić, I agree with you that we should not communicate in such a way in this High House, but unfortunately, this is a common case although I do not think the Rules of Procedure has been injured to this extent, so we continue to work further. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, the final word has a respected colleague, Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129478	Thank you, Vice President. It's not for me to be here individually to answer to every club that you, we think about what they said. First of all, it is my duty to do what they do, and as my colleague Maras said, each of our fellow citizens, citizens have their own position and that attitude I see in the field and that they are asking us to communicate clearly here. First of all, what they're asking us to do, they're asking us not to let you talk and repeat lies over and over again, they're asking us to point out clearly what happened to the moments and not to keep quiet about it. What you're talking about here and I want to repeat it here in the way that you justify the situation that happened with the moments, you think that you've made savings with it, that you haven't done any damage because the remont you paid for has allowed us not to pay someone else to protect our sky. And what were those moments like? They're now without permission to sail, the pilots in them weren't safe, were they your savings? What was happening in the process of getting fighter planes, of course there was some cost, but the transparent procedure cost, but there was no damage, and that's a big difference, and what happens when that cost is not necessary and necessary to avoid all risks, then happens, then moments 21. What happened in this procedure was that we were looking for a full package, he wasn't just looking at fighter planes, he was looking at people, pilots, technicians and the entire military industry, no one had any objections from the states that participated in this process, and neither did any member of the Committee from whatever party he came from, had any objections, or had sent any objections or objections. Now, what's still going on in HS which is hard for me to explain to our citizens, it's hard to explain to our citizens while the camera, for example, is focused in front of someone who answers the question of opposition, that the president of the opposition and the promoter comes out and then comes back and repeats the same questions over and over again, so he has the cheeks to repeat, not listen to the answers, keep coming out, talk the same thing at all, and we don't have any discussions, we have individual statements that are not addressed at all to the partners, not to the members of this Parliament, or to his colleagues, or to the like. And so it happens that we have an opposition president who doesn't know how to report on behalf of the proposer, doesn't know how to ask for a word and talk in such a way and here is the circus. So, exactly what is happening in this process and what we want to do in this process and what is done for the last two years is invest in people, invest in the military industry, and after 15 years, Minister Krsticevic has adopted a national security strategy. What we need to be, we need to be serious when we're talking about whether or not we need to have fighter planes. Our own skies, so we can protect or we can pay someone else to protect our skies, so that the debates of the Living Wall or other clubs that we don't even need combat planes, absolutely don't stand. What we had a chance to hear was read to us, a poor menu of, may a little silence ask from fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129479	Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to let my colleague, Dragica Vranesh, finish the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129480	What we had from the Living Wall to read to us here is a menu that is not in their opinion good to the HV, and it's precisely those amendments that asked the HV to shrink 240 million kuna on the budget. I am, therefore, ashamed of the politicians of MOST who were not at all involved in this debate and populism which showed me in the same way as he showed when he adopted the Declaration on the position of Croats in BiH. Yes, you were included in the final report, you said you had very little time, you had time to have an individual discussion and to tell everything you wanted to say very closely. What we want to say on behalf of the HDZ is that we are not giving up on fighter planes, but we are trusting this minister and the government that this process is going on and on, and they are all saying that we should now be asked about, which judicial proceedings are being conducted, are precisely procedures related to moment 21, and this is now the topic in question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129481	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vranj for this final word. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, the final word of the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129482	Dear ladies and gentlemen, spending 2.9 billion kuna on getting military planes that we don't need is a slap and a finger in the eye of all those who dig through the trash, all those who eat in the soup kitchen, all those who collect bottles, and you can see them yourself, every beggar that we pass every day on Ilica, every blocked citizen, every citizen who's waiting for a run from the only real estate, every citizen who has to move out of our country. The government assures us that our enemy is out there somewhere and that he might attack us and that we must defend ourselves against him. However, the real enemy of the Croatian people, i.e. the biggest enemy of the Croatian people, is actually the puppet government in Mark's square, which is fully in the service of foreign capital, which billions, tens of billions a year gives to Western creditors, while our children in schools starve, while our young in the Republic sees no future. The only hope in our country's defence is actually voters who would vote in the election over HDZ's network of arrests against which is the powerless and state-of-the-art weapon. The fact is that HDZ is unable to solve the problem of corruption in the Republic of Croatia, and moreover, HDZ is currently being tried for withdrawing money from state-owned companies and then using them through these funds of its own, we could call them extra-profit, but let's call them funds that have not been registered through business books, it's the real problem of the Republic, it's the real enemy of the Republic of Croatia, corruption. But against corruption, this government struggles in a way that when Live Wall proposed a law on that property that could not be proven to be of origin or questionable origin, it took away, HDZ said there was no need for it, they rejected our law. How will military planes help us to fight those who stole our land? Unfortunately, from the price of these military planes and the fact that they cost multiples than they would cost either the new or used of the same type, it is clear from the plane that this is at least not clean business and ultimately the failure of the job is proof that this contract was not legal. I call on the Croatian people to wake up right now, to understand or to ask the next question, are there smarter ways to spend 2.9 billion kuna in the Republic of Croatia, is there a smarter way? Imagine how people who live on a guaranteed minimum fee of €850,00, who have to live on it, when they hear that you're giving that kind of money to those planes, 2.9 billion, and that an hour of flight costs 20 000, an hour of summer, imagine that, driving for 20 000 euros, shame. And you, what are you saying is that a 30-year-old plane is good, that argument falls into the water with a question why are you getting new cars for yourself? Do you, Mr. Secretary, drive in a 30-year-old car? And if I were to suggest you drive in a car like that, you'd say, Pernar, so you're not normal, so I'll never drive in a car like that, but at the same time you'd push a military pilot, and you'd drive a 30-year-old plane, and you'd still go one step further, say, you'd drive 50 years old and you'd convince him that that plane is safe and that job for the RH is good. I am convinced in my heart that you yourself do not believe what you say, as the Croatian public does not trust you either. I call on you now to stand here in the final presentation in front of the Croatian public and to say thank God that the deal has not passed, it has been a delusion from the very beginning and to expose those who pushed you into the business, to hold on to the military and to tell you where the pressures came from and why this had to take place even though it was not in the interest of our state and the army. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129483	.../...college Pernar/... The next final word on behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129484	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, after a full-day debate, we have sought responsibility, obviously we will not get responsibility because the minister is not ready to take responsibility for himself, it is nothing new for HDZ. So, we had Martina Dalic who left the government, but not because she was doing a bad job because then she was a whole defile minister, I think Minister Krstičević was at a book promotion at the CNB, oh God, not at the CNB, but at the University Library and Mrs. She left because she was doing well. After that, we have Minister Kujundzic who destroyed healthcare, the ranks in health institutions are too long, nothing is happening, there is no responsibility either. Minister Maric leaves politics if the refinery closes in his words, the refinery closes, he remains. So HDZ is not equal to responsibility, but a cross sign of equal responsibility, so we can't get responsibility either from Minister Krstičević, who, when he first faced such a situation, not the one with the figure of resignation he gave in Split, when there were fires, when he knew that everyone would say don't leave, now that people had accepted his resignation, he's not giving it. So why doesn't he quit now when the public expects him to do it and if no one would talk him into it or anyone else in his position to remain minister. The fact is that the business failed, that the business of fiasco, that the Croatian public was being deceived for two years almost, that the minister was driving on planes, a few months ago saying that everything would be great, that Croatia would get a modern squadron, that we had done the job of the century and it had failed. There is no one else to blame but ourselves, or ourselves, but the one who conducted the procedure. No one, neither America nor Israel, but those who conducted the procedure and there is a whole team headed by Minister Krstičević. As transparent as that was, it tells you enough about every little bit of new information being leaked to the public that we didn't know about until then. How transparent this was to tell you this information, so I contacted Minister Krstičević to tell the Croatian public, which is why the Ministry of Defence does not give a full list of all external associates besides the expert team who worked on the procurement process by name and last name. Why won't he give us that information, Minister? Give all the names, the media are constantly asking you, you're avoiding giving that information. That's the transparency you and the Department of Defense are fostering. I say once again, the media is looking for names and names of people who have worked past the professional team on the job, but Minister Krsticevic and his team do not give those names and hide those people. So much for their transparency, responsibility and willingness to take the risk of these people being known to the public and then to open up a whole new wide range of issues which, of course, Minister Krsticevic doesn't have an answer. So this job is cloudy, this job is inefficient, this job is a failure, we lost two years, sorry God and the efforts of the people who worked there, unfortunately driven by disaster. In such a situation anyone responsible would take responsibility and resign, it is expected by the entire Croatian public, it has nothing to do with the war routes, it has nothing to do with the merits of the past, it has to do with the work you are doing today. Don't hide behind the general act, you are now doing a public job in which you are extremely unsuccessful, you are a failure. I'm sorry to have to tell you, I wish you were successful in your work, but I have to tell you that you're a failure and that's why we're asking for your responsibility. The debate that she showed today showed all of what we were saying, these stories about moments, about who wanted, who wanted what, 10, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, are stories for little kids from the HDZ PR workshop who always turn the issues from what's important. And it is important that there are no responsibilities with the HDZ government, with Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Krsticevic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129485	I thank my esteemed colleague, Maras. On behalf of the government, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister and Defence Minister, Mr. Damir Krsticevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129486	Dear MPs and parliamentary representatives, here we are at the end of the debate, most of all thanks to all the parliamentary representatives, the MPs who participated in this debate. Right at the start of my colleague, Maras, and I sure as hell won't resign because of what you're looking for. And I can tell you the same thing here because I have no reason to give it to you. Yes, I'm a HDZ politician now, I'm very pleased, I'm honored... And I'm glad, and I'm proud to be a HDZ politician. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, I am an ex-military and retired and retired general. And today I'm in the position of the Secretary of Defense. As for someone's ability, you showed your ability, your own client replaced you because you were incapacitated and responsible for finance in the party and later you were incapacitated and in Belarus. Just so much for your ability, Mr. Maras. So you proved your ability very well. ... The other thing [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruding Brkić: Dear colleague Maras, please do not enter the Minister and Ministers I would ask you...]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129487	Comrade Maras, please, I didn't give you my word. I've asked you not to enter the word of the minister and I'm going to ask the minister just for you to pick your words a little bit when you speak to the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129488	As for today's whole day at the end, you saw that the government absolutely refused, I think it's completely this part of the interpretation and unfounded and unfounded. I think we've given absolute answers to all possible questions. You have seen that Croatia has asked all the necessary questions in this process, we have received all the necessary guarantees. Well, we also saw in a recent interview with the US ambassador who said that what happened was a matter of negotiations between the United States and the state of Israel about the transfer. And as it happens, these negotiations have not yielded results. Croatia is absolutely not guilty of anything. And I repeat once again, very systematically, thoroughly, we have conducted this process, there are no financial obligations for the Republic of Croatia and I think that once again in this process, we have certainly led as people only to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, national interests and interests of obtaining a multi-purpose combat plane in this step. I am convinced and this debate today was watched by our soldiers, officers, officers, by pilots. I can tell you, I respect the pilot Selak, the hero, but Croatia has many more brave pilots of heroes and it is not only Selak, but I respect him and I would now only end up with another Croatian pilot who died in the Homeland War, which is pilot Rudolph Pereshin. And you know what Rudolph Pereshin said in his 94th interview, that his dream was to fly on a West Tech plane. I am convinced that this government will find a way... with the support of SDP representatives, is this a national security story, that we will find a way for Croatia's future, security, to take a Western combat plane, and that aircraft in the hands of Croatian pilots will be a guarantee of Croatian security, and I believe that during Friday's debate, when it comes to that conclusion, you will be responsible for the benefit of Croatian security in support of that conclusion of the Croatian Government, is that it is national security and it is a super-party story and all of us and the parliamentary representatives and here and you, we all have [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] responsibility for that. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129489	.../...respected minister on this final word/... We have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129490	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice-President of the Government has deviated from the usual behaviour in HS because in HS, it is not quite usual for a member of the Government to refer to MPs here and I fear that you have not adequately warned him that he is not doing so because the Prime Minister or Vice-President of the Government has done so for two and a half minutes, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129491	My colleague, Peja Grbin, you're an expert in law, you should have first called on the article of the Rules of Procedure, which you didn't do and if you'd listened a little better, then you wouldn't have done any harm to the Rules of Procedure, I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. You're not a colleague. We're moving on to replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129492	Thank you very much. Mr. Krstičević, you and I are not you, this shows your relationship with the Croatian representative chosen here by 13000, over 13000 people, who represent here those who do not think like you and shows what level you are now operating at and how you treat, if you want both HS and MPs in them, in him and those who chose us here. You sent a message, be aware of that, over 13,000 people, when you came at me like this. You, on the other hand, for your information, don't inform yourself on these, on these half-portals, I've never been removed unlike the one you've been relieved and sent to retirement by President Mesic because you acted contrary to the law. Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129493	.../...respected colleague Maras/... Answer, Minister Krsticevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129494	Mr. MP, you've been chosen by 13,000, and I've been chosen by some people, I've been elected by over 30,000, you have responsibility for your people who chose you, I have responsibility for this second base by the same people who chose me, you've been, you've been to the elections, you've been to the elections, you represent your people, your voters, I appreciate it, I've been to the elections, I've been to the elections too, I represent people and voters. You were talking about ability and you said I wasn't a capable defence minister, and I'm a capable defence minister, so ask the Croatian soldiers, officers and officers, we've renewed And we returned the glow to HV. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129495	I thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129496	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, please don't hide behind soldiers and officers. Many times today you have spoken of being raised up in heaven by soldiers and officers, you are their minister and do not push politics into the military because it is something that is not good and is not in the spirit of democracy. You say all guarantees are days, and nothing, as they say in Sinj, in anything and that's a fact, you haven't given answers why it's one big nothing and all the time you're saying the Republic is not guilty, the citizens are not guilty, it's either you or your associates. And what I expect you to tell me clearly, if the documents appear that you knew that the contract would not be executed until the end, are you ready to resign?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129497	Thank you, Minister Krsticevic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129498	Mr. Maras, you asked six questions, Mrsic, I'm sorry, I apologize, you asked six questions and all those six questions are answered, and what you're saying is that I resign because you're asking me to, I can only tell you that I won't resign.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129499	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ljubica Lukačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear Minister, you did well in your presentation to say that Croatia is not guilty of anything. I will only read one sentence that the Director-General of the Israeli Ministry said, so that counterpart Maras and his colleagues truly understand that Croatia is not guilty and responsible. He said Croatia has shown professionalism, counterpart Maras and correct judgment at every step of the process, Croatia has been unable to influence this outcome and cannot be responsible for anything. I think this is extremely important, so here, I'm glad that these are colleagues... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129501	You give your colleagues Lukačić the replica to Minister Krstičević, not your colleagues Maras, so I ask you to keep an eye on the future. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Maras, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129502	I just wanted to commend your reaction, you've made the right judgment, my colleague Lukacic replicated me and not Minister Krstičević. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129503	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Damir Tomic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129504	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor, I would not like you to resign, I would be very sorry, because you are a true picture of both the HDZ and this government. What I would refer to is I'm glad you're taking care of people's dreams, except with the dreams of hundreds of thousands of poor and evicted because of the work of your government? You boast about the defense budget, what about education, health care, what about the police? You know what's going to happen, it'll be just you and you won't have anyone left to defend at the end of your term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129505	Thank you. We have on behalf of the promoter, i.e. the interpreter, the esteemed colleague Peja Grbin, final word, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Let me, in this final word, in the name of the promoter on behalf of the interpretation, refer first and foremost to the allegations that we have today had the opportunity to listen to from colleagues and colleagues. from the HDZ ranks. Although the topic of today's interpretation of procurement is F 16, which has infamously failed and turned into a fiasco, co-workers and colleagues from HDZ. they talked about the purchase or the remonting of the MiGs. So when I ask you why this remont was so bad, why do you have so much against it, then explain to me, why you took the man who ran the remont of MIGs into the procurement commission F 16. So if he messed it up, why do you keep using it? According to all the opportunities we had today from the HDZ, that man deserved the strictest prison sentences, because as things stand, there was nothing good in that purchase, and no plane is flying, as you said, in the cary, they're in danger. Now, please explain to me, if these planes do not have a water permit, which is why the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia has allowed, not only permission, but today, announced that these planes will fly over Slavonia and announced the possibility of breaking the sound wall, if they do not have a water permit. Where is the right of the Ministry of Defence to allow and not take measures to prevent and ensure the safety of our pilots? And do you know why they didn't stop it? Because those planes are right. And as old as they are today, because there's no doubt about it at all, it's second-generation planes, it's the planes that first flew, or the planes of that guy in the '50s, as old as they are, their resources will last until 2024. Because the remont used 10 years ago was designed to bridge the period until the decision was made on the future of Croatian Air Force. And you mentioned that there are only two options. Unfortunately, that's not true, there are 3 options. One option is to arrange it with a third, and I would personally find it difficult to choose to negotiate with Italians or Hungarians, to obtain my squadron of aircraft, or to do something that has happened in some countries and leave the Croatian sky defenseless. I certainly won't advocate this option. But with what you've done, Mr. Krsticevic, with this failed acquisition, with this fiasco, with us not knowing what we're going to do today, what you're saying, and the Prime Minister second, we're getting into a situation, that in 2024, when the resources of these MiGs expire, indeed this third option becomes a Croatian reality. Dear colleagues and colleagues mentioned that we asked for budgets for 2018 and 2019 to reduce the amount for the purchase of multi-purpose fighter aircraft. Obviously we were right, did we get them in 2018? We didn't. Shall we get them in 2019? We won't. So what's the problem, then, with respected colleagues and colleagues when I ask that the money, which is intended for something that will not be used to redirect, for example, to a pulse hospital or a pulse university, when already, dear Mr. Krsticevic, you have a problem with how much I care about my hometown. That's what I was looking for. I'm behind it. Now that we know that neither the 2018 money nor the 2019 money will be spent, come on, let's use it for something useful and talk about how we will behave in the future and how we will ensure that we do not repeat these mistakes. And one more thing you're about, so I'm gonna say it like that, and it's criminal proceedings related to the remont of MIGs. You tried to show that these criminal proceedings are being conducted because of the very fact of the remont, that's not true. It's just not true. Criminal proceedings are being conducted because one person within the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia has allowed her to seek bribes and now beware of miracles, both from the Ukrainians and from the Romanians, both from one and the other. And do I have to remind you for the 78th time today who asked to conduct an investigation? So Minister of Defence in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Mr. Kotromanović. He asked for an investigation and the investigation would be conducted and I hope that the culprit will be sanctioned and punished. And one more thing when we talk about that remont. From the Ministry of Defence, especially from Mr Krstičević, we had the opportunity to hear the assumption that planes do not fly, that Ukrainians were asked to ensure other, some guarantees, payments, etc., and then, behold, a response from Ukraine that reads the Republic of Ukraine never asked for the activation of guarantees due to the delivered MiGs. If those planes were broken and if it was detected, then this man's responsibility here to ask Ukraine for it but it wasn't done, it wasn't done. And you today have the cheeks to call anyone for a remont of MiG that cost 130 million kuna and today we're talking about something that's supposed to cost 500 million euros. And it fell apart and there was damage. And when we talk about a concrete procurement process, I will start with the words of a legendary Croatian lawyer, Balthazar Bogicic, who said "What a coat of arms is born, no time corrects" and these are the words that describe this purchase perfectly. Look, I mentioned it to Minister Krstičević, and I asked him to answer that after his debate, but he kept it quiet, except for not one question that was raised here before the Croatian Parliament today, he did not give an answer. I asked him how it is possible if the purchase of the aircraft was initiated by a decision of July 2017, if the decision on the choice of the most favourable aircraft was made in March 2018, so that it is possible for Minister Krstičević to make the decision in March 2017, a year before the decision was taken, half a year before the start of the procedure for the purchase of the aircraft had already declared that the Israeli offer of the plane was what we need. Minister Krsticevic knew a year before the procedure he wanted to obtain, and then it is no wonder that when we were warned from the United States in September 2017 that we would not be able to buy these planes in this form. And now I'm going to tell you something that maybe I shouldn't. US Embassy representatives met with many parliamentary deputies. And you know what they told us? If you get Israeli planes, if you buy them, if you pay them, they won't be able to fly in this form because we don't want to accept it. And they didn't tell us that in the 12th month. 2018, they told us a long time ago. They told us at the same time they told this gentleman here but he didn't react to it. But if that was all, this would be great. We'd only be discussing crippling. We'd only be discussing sloppyness. My colleague Glavak said in her debate, correct me if I am wrong, that in no single word we did not explain in what way the international position of the Republic of Croatia was brought into question and in which way we acted irresponsiblely to our allies. To explain that, I have to go back to 29. 3. 2018, an extremely important day for this purchase, because it was then that a decision was made on the purchase of the aircraft. Brigadier Tretinjak was then at a press conference with many slides, with very precise explanations amongst other things, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Strick here because he could now see how the choice of the best aircraft was really formed, so Brigadier Tretinnjak explained what criteria were for selecting the most favourable offer. These criteria were 33% strategic domains. Below that, to be absolutely clear, strategic and military partnership. Strategic and military partnership. 32% therefore less than the strategic and military partnership, the financial or cost domain. Less important than strategically. 25% of the capacity domain and only 10% of the investment domain you've been very, very much talking about. Therefore, the most important domain in the assessment of the offer was the strategic and military partnership. Who submitted the offer? Greece, certainly its strategic and military partnership for Croatia, is not so significant no matter what a NATO member, and was also the last to be presented by Brigadier Tretinjak. Sweden, not a NATO member, is not a close country, is also not that important, so their offer was third. And there are two other offers. An offer from the United States and an offer from Israel. Please explain to me because I cannot understand what space for Croatia can be more strategic and military partnership with Israel than with the United States? In what universe? Is anyone here who is watching and listening to me, can imagine that strategic and military partnership with Israel is more important for Croatia than the one with the United States? I believe that, however, for the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia, for Mr Krsticevic, this partnership was more important. And Israel got more points than the United States in the domain of strategic and military partnership. And now you tell me that's not the message we sent our ally. This is a message presented to the public by Brigadier Tretinjak 29. 3. In 2018, Minister Krsitčević's Pasak and Patronata. It was not the only pearl on that day that Brigadier Tretinnjak, and this was referred to among other things by the respected pilot Selak, the brigade then spoke of the operational cost of a 30-year-old plane being smaller, significantly smaller than the new plane. Now, smart enough. My colleagues and colleagues that we fully understand each other, this was the job in which Israel was selling and Croatia was buying, and you're right when you say it, that the responsibility of the seller exists, and no one on our part tried to remove it, but this is not a purchase of the apartment, this is a much more complex procedure, this is a purchase of sensitive military equipment, a purchase that, apart from the buyer and the seller, includes another side, and this is a side that owns this job that is the owner of intellectual property over these appliances, it's the United States. And the buyer, as well as the seller, must make sure that all segments of this business are executed by the legions of artis. That the responsibility of Israel may exist even greater than Croatia, but this is not the Knesset of me for the responsibility of the government of Benjamin Netanyahua, who cares. It will be discussed by Israeli citizens and the elections will decide whether he led them well or badly, not us. I am also interested in the sole responsibility of Mr Krstičević, which is a great responsibility, the responsibility is large in strategic terms because of what I have been saying, but the responsibility is visible in the whole series of follow-up actions that Mr Krstičević has made and which show that all the pressures on transparency are nothing but the taps. Because if it weren't pressures, the media wouldn't have to send out queries every day and ask for information about who did the task force, if it weren't for the transparency pressures, it wouldn't have happened if the ministry claimed that only MORH employees participated in the task force together, and then at the Defence Committee meeting a man who doesn't work in the MORH doesn't work. But that's not all, you first claimed that this procedure did not generate any cost, then you said 395.000 kuna for a trip to Israel, later you corrected yourself because you remembered that you had ordered and paid Deliott's study, so it was another 195,000, and there were trips to the United States, where travel to Hungary, Poland, Sweden, Korea, all the trips that were related to this purchase. And there are many hours of work for all those employees of Morh who worked on this failed project instead of doing other things that might be far more useful to the Republic of Croatia. You didn't count any of it, you didn't count it, and it's just saying how untransparent this whole procedure was. Dear colleagues and colleagues, you will refuse this Interpletion it is quite clear and it is your right as ruling, about whether you or we were right, will ultimately be decided by the court of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, if you are really moving into a new procurement process, please don't leave it to this man, he really isn't capable of it, fill out what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia has announced, form an interdepartmentary commission and give it to someone who can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129507	Thank you, dear colleague Grbino, for this final word, we have several replicas of dear colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129508	I thank Mr. President, my colleague, the coat of arms, has been reminding me of the misdemeanor lately. And you insist on acting as protectors of other people's interests, and those others are telling you don't defend us because you don't know how to defend our interests. That's what the believers told you in the Agrokor case, when you kept telling us how to spend taxpayers' money, and they told you it wasn't our money, and we have money and don't defend us better leave us alone. In this case, Mr. Grbin, if the procedure was non-transparent, it would have been unfair, so I guess those who came forward in the process, and it wasn't some small players there, it was the strong states, the United States, Greece, Korea, Sweden, that they didn't report and say, so this is intransparent this is unfair what this country is doing. Why they did not attack Croatia, but they are silent and satisfied and know that the job was fair and transparent And they're not answering, they're finding the SDP. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129509	I would like to thank my colleague Bačić, please welcome the response of my colleague, Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129510	Although I don't care about Greece or the United States or Sweden, I'm going to answer this question anyway. You have not been informed, if you had been informed, you would have seen how many objections were made by Sweden, for example, and by their provider Saba regarding this procurement process. Dear colleague, this is not a public procurement where you complain to the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. This is a special system of public procurement and it functions differently. All these countries were in fact happy that Croatia had chosen the Israeli offer, and you know why, because they knew unlike us that this job would fail and that they would again have a chance to report to another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129511	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Grbino for his reply, the next replica of my esteemed colleague Ante Babic, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129512	Thank you, Vice President, fellow coat of arms, knowing you strangely to me this political rhetoric, even stranger to your excuse, your diction and that aggressive speech, especially when you turn to Mr. Minister, I don't know why. You know that out of 12 MiGs, four don't fly at all, eight of them can fly something, and some can't fly at all. But what you were saying tonight is actually on the trail of your former leader, followed by Milanovic, who spoke to me or them and it was crystal clear tonight. So we're for the stronger army, for the defense, for the air force, for the navy, for the proud Croatian soldier, and you, you, you're climbing till morning, for nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129513	I thank my colleague Babic. Please choose a few words, not to speak in such a way, you have an answer, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129514	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If Minister Krstičević was good to you and you stick to him and hold on to him, he offered his time of resignation, unfortunately she was not accepted, if she had been accepted, Croatia would have been saved from the great damage but she was not. And now that I should do it again, if that resignation would probably not only be accepted but also be welcomed by both hands, now it won't. The gentleman you're talking about has not understood one key thing from transition, from democracy to democracy, which is that the minister is a public official, an official of this people, he's no longer a general, he's no longer a warrior, he's a politician responsible for his actions and his failures, however, as we see when your option in power and responsibility is gone and because of that, us or you, it's the only dilemma.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129515	I'd like to thank my colleague Grbin. The next replica, dear colleague Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129516	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Grbin, we are both aware, I assume that the entire Croatian public is aware that Minister Krsticevic is past, it is obvious that Plenkovic has already given up, it is only a matter of time before the minister understands it and somehow I have the impression that he understands because his words sent to his colleagues "I will not stand down because you are looking for it" say, "I will stand down". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129517	Thank you. With this, we've exhausted all the debates on this agenda point, I'm closing the debate. I thank the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Damir Krstic and his associates, and we will vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, tomorrow we will continue to work at 9:30, item of the agenda Report on the implementation of the National Strategy for Action Plan on drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 and note that the vote will be held tomorrow at 12:00. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. Session interrupted at 23.14 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129518	Now we're going to vote on the debated points. The first is the Interpletion on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act as the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the acquisition of the squadron of multi-purpose fighter aircraft. My colleague Bernardic called, so I'm guessing he's gonna ask for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129519	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, we are looking for a break to consult again on the shameless lies we heard here yesterday by Prime Minister Plenkovic and Minister Krstic. This is actually a continuation of lying and cheating on citizens by this government. Except they lied that they weren't part of the Borg group and they were, and we know that the Borg group robbed hundreds of millions of kunas from Agrokor. They also lied about returning INA to Croatian hands. Today it is more than clear that they have sold themselves to the Hungarians. They lied that they would never allow the closure of the Sisak refinery, they allowed, they even said that whoever allowed it was a national traitor, it was clear that they had issued national interests, but also the workers who drove them to the street, lied that they were not familiar with the terms of the purchase of the plane, but in their lie they were disassociated by an American ambassador who said that he had personally taken the papers of warnings to the Prime Minister Plenkovic, they lied and that they did not know who was dealing with the secret documents from the government and thus directly threatened national security, but they also threatened all citizens who lived every day harder, workers, pensioners, all because there were no reforms and in the mandate of this government over 130 000 people left our country. But in order to cover up this whole truth, the government every day invents false news fighting affairs that it has fallen into like an affair SMS, elite prostitution, Borg affairs, purchasing mandates and other affairs where it uses the security system for internal accounts. Given the above, and since the Parliament no longer maintains the will of the voters, it would be fair to consider early elections if you care about citizens at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129520	Okay. Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, Comrade Bacic, here you are, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129521	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I am also asking for a 10-minute break so that, before voting on the proposal for an interpretation on the role of the Government on the acquisition of multi-purpose combat aircraft, we would clearly send a message to the Croatian public that the process of obtaining multi-purpose fighter aircraft was fully legal, transparent, that all relevant state institutions were familiar with the relevant parliamentary working body of the Defence Committee, headed by a fellow SDP member and that they had all relevant information. That during the procedure on all aspects of procurement, the Croatian public was aware, that there was no responsibility in the procedure because the procedure was concluded by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that the responsibility for the delivery of approval by the United States was by the state of Israel, that the State of Israel had apologized through its representative in Zagreb for failing to obtain the necessary approval from the United States, therefore there was no speech on the responsibility of the Croatian Government. In this procedure for Croatian taxpayers and for the Republic of Croatia, there was no material damage nor any expenditure, and we say once again, if going once again to the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Resorship, the OS, had experienced indignity at international level, then it was the case with the procurement or modernisation of the MiG 21st that the Government of the SDP conducted to Ukraine. Therefore, instead of talking about their affair, they are trying to impute the responsibility of the Croatian government and the HDZ club in full refuses impelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129522	Thank you. I'll grant you a break. Here you are, my colleague Bunjac, the House of Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129523	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, we are looking for a 10-minute break to consult again on this item of the agenda, since in Croatia we are witnessing a state where there is no more responsibility, a state in which you can do whatever you want and, worst of all, take corrupt actions, rob a budget, embarrass the state, and therefore it is not possible for anyone to resign or be removed. I would remind you that Israel Aerospace Industries, from which we buy airplanes, came under investigation in 2017 for corruption and that 13 of its employees were arrested. He would also say that the same company, Israel Aerospace Industries, was a business partner of KING I.C.T. in which Minister Krsticevic, for 15 years, was a member of the Supervisory Board, even the president. I would also point out that Israel Aerospace Industries is the business partner of the Aeropartner, who was the mediator for the remounted aircraft in Ukraine. These companies should in no way have been involved in this business and it is quite clear that this is most likely about mutual corruption. It means on the Croatian side, so on the Israeli side. And if it hadn't been for the American Congress that has at least so much honor that it can't participate in open illegalities, this job would have been realised at the shame of all of us and in a way that Croatia would still have no air defense. Therefore, Croatia has no air defence and is therefore solely responsible for the government of Andrej Plenkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129524	I'll grant you a break. And finally, just a little while, colleague Beus Richembergh on behalf of the GLAS Club, please. And HSU.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129525	Mr. President, on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Club, I'm looking for a break in order to be in a new light, which is the government's behaviour in yesterday's debate, we're actually consulting again on the final position. In fact, he's trying to show us here that there's no problem. He's trying to convince us that the job he tried to make was the most transparent and was perfectly correct. And the key thing is to forget, this job is called the work of the century, and it's nothing less than a failure. That fiasco also had its own material effects, not only did we lose 2 years, but yesterday the prime minister here specifically mentioned a figure of 600,000 kn that was embossed as expenses with this whole procedure. That's how you get rid of things if someone else's 600,000 kn isn't very inadmissible. So in this way to approach and to say that everything was transparent and that everyone knew everything was the highlight of hypocrisy, not that everyone knew not everything but the government knew nothing about it, so it happened that even the American administration had to warn the public that there was a correspondence that was claimed by the Government to be gone. It had to be said about it in the American Congress before the Croatian Parliament, so there is a problem. A minimum of decency would have been to admit that it was wrong, had not done the job well, had a whole series of ignorance gaps been made, and would have tried to avoid all of this in some next procedure, but with one decent excuse rather than such blatant and arrogant attitude of the government, or the prime minister yesterday, who was here and insulting and disdaining MPs for asking him for heroic health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129526	I approve of the break. And we still have a colleague, Glasnović, I suppose, on behalf of the Representatives' Club for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129527	So I'm asking for a break to break this hypocrisy and this transfer and ping pong balls, both parties had these left, right wing UDBAs to do a privatisation review, you had a lot of time For that, for lustration, why haven't you done a review of conversion and privatisation so far, you've had time for that. [[Adversity President: Col. Glasnović, are you looking for a recess for consultation?]] And that's where they sit, we're being terrorized by these heads, and it's all the same shit from the other flies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129528	I also approve of your break. Okay, so now we have a 10-minute break, please be here at exactly 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 12.19 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to take your seats so we can approach the vote. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] Please sit down. Therefore, the interpretation of the work of the government of the Republic of Croatia, in order to act as the government of the Republic of Croatia related to the acquisition of squadrons, multi-purpose combat aircraft, are the applicants of 16 MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The debate is closed. In line with the HDZ proposal, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party of Liberal Democrats, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Party, the Croatian Social Liberal Party and the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, the Club of Representatives of the National Minorities, the Party of Labour Club and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party, I am voting for the next conclusion. First, the Croatian Parliament finds that the process of obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft has been conducted legally and transparently in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Defence have handled the whole process with due care and the proposals for conclusions from the submitted impelation on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to act on the procurement of squadrons of multi-purpose fighter aircraft, which have been submitted by 16 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Secondly, support is given to the government of the Republic of Croatia in further finding a solution to obtaining a multi-purpose combat aircraft and retaining the ability of a sound combat Air Force for Croatia. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 43 votes against, have reached the conclusion that the Clubs of Representatives have proposed. My colleague Maras had a breach of his rules of procedure, just a little bit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129530	Thank you very much, Mr. President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, I've asked for a word because I wanted to add an extremely important thing in this conclusion, and you forgot to conclude that the diameter Plenkovic is the best diameter in the world. [[Intruder President: Here, add it now.]] All you had to do was add that, and then the conclusion would be really complete. That's what I wanted to add. I'm sorry you wouldn't let me do that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-14-0.u129531	You can suggest it and we'll vote.
