ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148190	Content silence is over and we will go to the next club, which is the Club of Representatives of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the esteemed representative Branko Hrg will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Every free moment as a representative I often use to go around the field, to be in different places, municipalities, cities, counties, and then come to such places, and when it comes here in the assembly I often experience a certain conflict in myself. It is clear to all of us that some perception of the situation in society is not very good, that we definitely have one situation in the society of dissatisfied citizens, a situation that is not at all positive. In such a negative atmosphere, it is very difficult to create a new value, it is very difficult to play in such a climate, and it is very difficult to achieve results. Today I decided to talk about it by asking myself a question, but also to all of us sitting in this political arena, are we aware of how much we contribute and are we aware that the course of political terrain and Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Parliament is not exactly in agreement with attitudes and opinions. Namely, I come to the days of the municipalities, the days of the cities, the days of the county, I must say that it is very pleasant for me because you come to a town in a town in some county and you hear a number of good indicators, a series of valuable projects, a series of good effects for people living there and saying people are never in principle, especially those who have a little longer head of local self-government had as many opportunities to develop their territory as they do now. It's about huge projects and resources. It's a huge shift that's happening. And then he comes here to the Croatian Parliament and here we hear something completely different. We keep hearing some kind of negative, some kind of evil, I don't know what it's all about. And then I ask myself if it really wouldn't be right if we tried to reset ourselves a little bit and try a little bit differently. Try to give some hope to this Croatian society, these Croatian citizens and simply start speaking a little differently both the position and the opposition in a way, let people compete with ideas, let's compete with good suggestions, good solutions, not only and absolutely, and always only with attacks and negativity. Or go to Croatia, go on the ground, go to municipalities, go to cities no matter what political option we belong to. Everyone says the same thing, everybody boasts about the projects, everybody boasts about the funds, everyone boasts about something that so far in Croatian villages and cities has not been in the counties. Do we really represent that field, if we're speaking diametrically the opposite of what's happening on the ground? I'm not sure. Or maybe we don't know the situation or maybe where the cameras are quite different. Maybe that camera is really causing some hypnosis, so we don't see anything anymore than just looking at the camera and then I want to say something else. I don't speak cheerleader, I speak realistically, I say what people say on the ground and what they say on the ground and what they say and what they do and what they realize is not a picture of what we often hear here in the Croatian Parliament. And I think that we make a very large and very good contribution ourselves from here from this political arena from the Croatian Parliament Hall to the negative climate in society, and I think no parliamentary representative should work on the negative climate, but we should all work on a positive climate and create better living conditions in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148192	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148193	We're going to the 8th debate, dear colleague Branko Hrg on behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In these statements of the club's position, we are mostly based on free topics, on those topics that perhaps, in some ways, citizens point to, say the local environment, and when there is a situation that some things cannot be solved in local communities, then people have nothing else to say but try to point out the problem and try to talk about it. So I'm going to point out here today a little bit of a problem that I've been warned about by the opposition council in the City Council of the town of Križevci who say they simply don't have tools and instruments to affect the state of security and the safety of children in kindergarten who has about 250 children in the permanent primary programme, but neither does it affect the functioning and safety of the protection of citizens of the town of Križevci and 4 surrounding municipalities that are gravitating the city on the protection of property and protection of people, therefore, it's a public fire force system. So, for a month now, the largest educational institution in the area, the Chrysevci kindergarten, has no director, or principal. There's not even a real deputy director. They left the kindergartens of pedagogogogics and logos. The departures of several other educators are announced because of an unsustainable situation. The city council has avoided a debate, opposition councils point to the problem, but the city's leadership says everything is fine. I'm not calling the city's leadership or anyone else. I don't think they're getting along and they need help. That they should be helped by the restoring and competent ministries, in this case by the ministries in charge of education and education, to point out the problem that exists there, to simply help them get out of that whirlwind that they've fallen into until, God has given up, some evil happens. There's a slightly different situation in the fire department, there's pressure, political pressure, so the commander was forced to retire before his term expired and after that, since there was no one in the public unit who wanted to and could take over the role of acting commander, and there's no deputy commander, the public fire department remained outside the law, so there's no responsible person who runs it. It's supposed to be a competition, it's going to be a competition, but when it is, it's not known, I repeat again, it's about a facility that cares about the safety of citizens, about the safety of lives and the property of the people who live there, who live there. And they need the same help, so I think a reckless move has been made, that maybe they haven't thought deeply enough about what might come of it. There are competent institutions in the state system that are responsible for this, which should point to the problem and help them find a solution. I, therefore, call from this place on behalf of both parents and children and those working in the Cresovci kindergarten and on behalf of all citizens who are staying there, and on behalf of the protection of property and the lives of people by the public fire department, to the competent state institutions, not with the aim of punishing, but with the aim of helping to check the situation and the situation in those two institutions in the Križevci, in these two institutions, and to help to get rid of it until, I repeat, God does not do any harm, because such an institution cannot be without a responsible person like this now and the case in kindergarten is in the public fire department for about two weeks already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148195	The 8th debate will be the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB-respected counterpart Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148196	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I had no intention of expressing my views today, and so many times it was the hypocrisy mentioned in this debate, the statements of attitudes that I felt the need to express a few thoughts about this very hypocrisy. I don't know what, if we haven't clearly determined the level to which party and political personnel are being deployed, it doesn't make any sense and let's not move any balls to the left, the right, the center, because it's just what everyone does, and it's independent. I had a case that in one local self-government everyone accepted in the contest, no party head ever, meaning only the waist, the non-party team came in, replaced all the leaders, set up those who funded them in the campaign. Then shall we talk about hypocrisy? So let's be aware that it's a normal thing, we just have to clearly figure out what level to be able to function at all. But the greatest hypocrisy comes to me from colleagues on our left who have been ministers, who have been ministers for four years and who have had quite a chance and four years with one great majority here in HS to do everything they wanted. Well, I'm asking the question now, people, so do you really think that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have had political amnesia, if it's come to you? And it didn't come to you, but you lie consciously here and knowingly deceive the public. You consciously draw attention from important topics to others. And you're making a problem for yourself and everyone who's in the political system, that's what I've been talking about the other day. We're all becoming hypocrites at that point. And we all get it on our cheeks, so let's not do it. Today is the day that the HS will discuss the 4th phase of changes in tax laws in this mandate, when that part of the tax discharge will rise to 9 billion. Come on, let's not be hypocrites, let's just say it's a good move, was it a good move to direct tax charges towards a man, to an employee, to a pensioner, to a businessman, to a craftsman, or not? Or maybe it was hypocritical that at a time when you were talking about some bad weather today, it was all shrinking, and there was this really apathetic, depressing situation in this assembly in this society when there was no positive shift up, so to speak. We're talking about it today, clearly that it's all a cup a little bit already intertwined with the presidential campaign, all the rest, but let's not underestimate people however, do not forget so quickly, though people tend to forget all that ugly and just remember nice. But they've learned to follow this part in politics, and to be aware that if the left side is in power to speak, if it's right to speak otherwise, then somewhere we need to find a measure, we need to find some limit. And let's stop being hypocrites, stop making fools of people and think people don't remember anymore, they don't remember what happened, what happened and what happened. Let us take serious issues, let us discuss what will benefit the citizens, and this will be in the extreme of today's debate, which we have already spent a good deal on and on these distortions on the subject, because it is obviously some kind of policy that is being conducted very actively in this assembly over the past three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148197	The next club of representatives is that of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives in which the respected representative Maria Puh will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148198	I thank the esteemed Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Since 2017, a preventive and media action called "The Pink October" has been carried out. "The Pink October" is focused on all women who are not included in the National programme on early breast cancer detection and other cancers. I appeal to all of you this month, all of you, in some way, to be ambassadors to all our women to respond to the preventive checks they will be invited to, and to take five minutes themselves, go to the doctor and each year carry out preventive checks because statistics tell us that if at an earlier stage you come to a doctor and if you find yourself in an earlier phase that there is a disease, the chances of healing are much, much greater and of course more fortunate women's life. Unfortunately breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies in women and even 1/3 of all malignancies that occur in women is breast cancer. 2700 women at year level in Croatia learn that they have breast cancer and, unfortunately, 75 of them die at the level of the month, I think these figures are extremely scary and extremely large and this prevention and thinking of themselves and their body can prevent such figures from occurring. The second most common cancer in women especially in those between the ages of 20 and 49 is uterus cancer. Unfortunately, in 2015, 111 women died of this form of cancer, which also gives great mortality, and the fact is that if it comes in time, if discovered in time, 80% of these women can be saved and cured. Also, for the neck cancer of the womb there are also vaccines that can actually prevent the development of the disease so I appeal to all women, I appeal to all mothers, to girls, I appeal to all of you to ask your wives who care about you every day at home, who cares if everything is ready for school, are you ready for work, that you ask them if you've been to review this year, have you dedicated yourself enough because all moms are always the most important health of their children, are always the most important children, that everything is complicated and unfortunately most often the ones don't think enough about themselves. That is why we have this "Bird October" which was established in 2017 to reach women through both the media and all our public stages, to make them aware that they have to go to preventive checks because, in large part, all these fatal outcomes if they are discovered in time and if changes are observed in time, they can be cured and there are no fatal consequences. And my message to women is be yourself first, then you'll be able to take care of everyone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148199	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148200	Let's go to club number seven, it's a club of representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives, a respected colleague of Mladen Madjer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148201	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives today I would like to say something about pensions in Croatia, and primarily with an emphasis on agricultural pensions that are extremely small and below all dignity for the people who fed this country, who fed us, who produced 365 days of food. To point out that Croatia today has about a million 1.232,651 pensioners who waste 1.23 workers versus one pensioner. Of these 1,232,000 pensioners are about 64,405 agricultural pensioners, and of these 64,405, 1,871 pensions are about 500 kuna. For them, 27,000 is between 500 and 1,000 kuna, for them 28000 between 1,000 and 1,500 kuna. I mean, I think it's all below the poverty line. So 1,871 people are receiving a agricultural pension of about 500 kuna, so I ask you fellow respected colleagues and colleagues did some even know that there are such small, low pensions and did you ever wonder how these people live? General pensions in the Republic of Croatia are relatively small and I agree that they must be higher, but is it normal for 1,871 people to receive a agricultural pension less than social aid of 900 kuna? It is also predicted that in 2021 we are talking about a national pension that is supposed to be 1,000 kuna for a single person, 1,600 kuna for several people none of whom exercise the right to retire from work. At the same time, the average agricultural pension is 1,082.00 kuna. Isn't it a shame that a man can't have a pension below the poverty threshold? Since I come from the rural part myself, I meet people who worked 365 days a year, no vacations, no sick leave, and today they're on the verge of poverty and unfortunately the edge of hunger. It's not easy to be a pensioner today, and a farmer's pensioner is a disaster. It is humiliating that people who have worked their entire life span, as I have noted without vacations, get a pension that is less than social aid without sickness. That's why I'm appealing to ensure the agricultural pension that she is, that she's not below the poverty threshold. Surely the Labour and Solidarity Party will refer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the minimum agricultural pension to be, not under social assistance, but also that even the smallest agricultural pension cannot be below national pensions because it is not worthy of life for those who have spent their entire lives in the field, in their orchards, in their stables, and that they receive such a shameful little pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148202	We are now going to the sixth debate, club representatives of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives of the respected colleague Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148203	Thank you, President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. I will not talk today about the Croatian state and problems in the country, but I will talk about Bosnia's Povina and the problems in Bosnia's Povina. I used to go to Bosnia, I was a happy man, I come from this neighborhood, today I go with grief and sadness when I see what happens to our Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina. The other day I visited the village of Garevac, on Monday, is the real highway Doboj-Bradiča-Bijeljina over three of our Croatian villages. I don't know if you've ever heard of them. It's Garret, Cladari, Chardak. In these villages, nearly 8,000 people once lived in this war in '92. They burned all three villages, they totally burned down, people refurbished that village with their money, completely restored the village, built a church, built their homes, today I don't know what reason the highway goes through their homes, and 80 new houses they built should be destroyed. I've been with people in that village, they're very disappointed, I can't believe there's an exodus happening to them again. I don't know who knows how many people in those villages died during World War II. By listening to these people, they're a little older than I am, some of my generation, they've never been remembered by a man in that village by his grandfather for killing them all. In one barn, it's called a barrel of barns, 550 people were killed in one day, closed and killed in that barn, it's a monument and chapel in which they made all the names and last names, you can't believe it, but it's true, none of their parents should have said a word to the children about what happened, such crimes were committed in this war, 105th brigade, from the same village 80 people died, they made graves, made monuments, made houses, and today they're going to tear down, and there's a lot of such fates in Savina. What do we do? How can we help these people? This is the beginning of a new fight in peace that needs to help these people not to try to emigrate again, that is the end of the existence of these villages. I talked to the Prime Minister on the subject, I asked him at the last meeting and he's supposed to, I heard from... He called Dodig to move it, and there's an alternative road going through some fields, the same Croatian country, and we hope that's how it's going to be. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know what more I should say, the Dayton Agreement on, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to help the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I hope they will, and I hope Covic will come forward as the president of the HDZ BiH to protect these villages and those people. And the very return to Bosnia's Posavino, where they are still burned by Bosnian Sham, from Bosnia's Brod to Derventa, no house has been renovated by anyone's money. Am I going to support the budget today, I don't know, I'm going to see, I'm asking the same thing to create the Vinkovci-Zagreb railway, we see that everyone is blackmailing the prime minister, which I think is doing as good a job as anyone wants to say one way or another, and colleagues... I'd say that, you have poor children, we're just asking why poor women, who wanted that war, why we made that war, why we came to such misery, let someone wonder. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] How many poor women from Bosnia's Posavina and from Bosnia came out of which no one ever restored their homes, at the RH bar, at least took care of the minorities and thank God that's the case. And this time I warn both the Croatian government and the Croatian institution to help the Croatian people in Bosnia's Posavina who has been betrayed in some way, who is silent, about whom there is no one to talk about, about whom there is no one to say anything, here I thank God that I am not ashamed to say it and repeat a hundred times for Bosnian Posavina, please all Governments The governments that have come and been so far, here I hope [[Intruder: Thank you]] that the prime minister will try to do that. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148204	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Labour and Solidarity Party and Independent Representatives esteemed colleague Rechim Varda, please welcome colleague Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148205	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, colleagues and colleagues, when every time I, on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues from the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, would participate in the debate about, so here are today two debates, then I stay with the People's Party, it doesn't matter what it says but who's talking. That people recognize such politics... A colleague of Maras. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148206	Dear colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148207	Be polite. Be polite. If you don't have a home education, I can give you a gift while you're talking, I've kept my mouth shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148208	Dear colleague Varda, I ask you nicely, continue the debate, if any of your colleagues exaggerates, I will warn them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148209	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148210	And your colleague Maras, please don't take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148211	So, in recent days, even today at this session, as opposition colleagues branded political corruption as a political topic no. 1. I don't mind that, and I'm also against corruption by all legal means. But in that subject no. 1, they found corruption carriers in the government of the Republic of Croatia and Zagreb Mayor Milan Bandic. And I am against the fact that HDZ better say, the government successfully in the current part of its mandate, which has held a number of operational meetings across all counties, larger cities and municipalities, and then came to order and the City of Zagreb continuously corrupts all counties, cities and municipalities through investment, infrastructure, roads, ports, marinas, airports, schools, transfer of property of valuable state property to units of local self-government. So, if it's corruption, I'm against such corruption. The freshest example of the corruption of mayors, mayors and mayors comes from the Croatian Zagorje, where the stock of the fast road to Zlatar is recently released, where... railway lines to Zabok and where a new train station is being built. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For a wonderful miracle, the mayor is from the ranks of the SDP, so I believe that after that, the opposition or the SDP will vote in favour of the draft budget for 2020. I want the government, therefore, corrupt government, to corrupt every part of our beautiful country. This is how she corrupts it all over the county, larger cities, municipalities where meetings have been held so far, and we are witnessing cross-border corruption. Here, most recently, the prime minister fought for the Doboj-Modrica-Brcko-Bijeljina highway to bypass 4 Croatian villages and preserve several hundred houses restored after the war and on the initiative of our club member, my fellow Misic. Obviously, the problem is only Zagreb. It bothers them that the mayor of Zagreb has launched a long-standing initiative for the Immunological Institute together, to connect together with the Government one of the world's largest vaccine manufacturers, to work together to solve the problem of the children's hospital, to connect the largest airport in the country with the largest major city, to employ the capacities of several Croatian companies for many years, Končar, Gredelj, etc., the construction of new trams. The colleagues of the opposition, decide who's here more and who's corrupting whom to make it easier for UskoK. It would be wise to file criminal charges and make that argument. If that's not working out for you, find someone to scholarship you to some law-political school or visit the Silicon Valley one more time. Or before the president of one opposition party in the public places a notorious lie about employment in Zagreb Holding, I recommend that he check the facts for his own credibility because in this way all would contribute to the development of Croatia and welcome another of your electoral defeats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148212	I thank my esteemed colleague. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148213	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, a colleague of Varda said a series of insults from a pay phone to my account, but the fact that a colleague Varda remains, 400 votes you received, you cheated on your voters and I know that you have nothing against corruption because you are one of the examples of corruption in Croatian politics where you betray your voters and hold the majority in HS Plenkovic and Bandic. So you wouldn't see HS If it hadn't been for the SDP, they wouldn't have seen it. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] as you won't see him in the next election [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] No matter whose list you were on. [[Intruder: colleague Maras...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148214	Thank you. I have already warned you of inappropriate behaviour and violation of the Rules of Procedure, and also of fellow Vardo during his address, since you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, based on Article. In 239, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148215	And the first one, on behalf of the Labour and Solidarity and Independent Representatives Club, will be spoken by a respected representative, so right now I'm calling this second, I just wanted to add Ivica Misic. I just announced to you, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148216	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today I will not attack the Prime Minister, today I will publicly thank the Prime Minister here. To thank for something that has done a great thing that you of course don't know. Why am I thanking you? I was asked from the village of Posavina, Garevica, Chardak and Lower Kladar, which I said last week that their houses were to be torn down in Bosnia and Herzegovina, they asked me to address the prime minister and help with this story and to keep these people in their homes. My cry to say otherwise, I went to the prime minister's meeting with the prime minister and he promised, and I told him what was going on with our fellow citizens in Bosnia and Herzegovina. He promised me he'd call Dodik tomorrow and see what it was. And I brought him some blueprints, and he called and I need to tell the truth about the reaction first thing tomorrow. What do you say? I can only say one thing that Bosnian Posavina people from these villages are very, very grateful to him, 80 houses were to be torn down and Dodik promised the prime minister that he would move the highway. To be even clearer on Friday, the prime minister called me I was at my parents' cemetery and then he told me you can tell people that the highway won't go. Believe me, the tears started in my eye, when I heard them, of course, and I thank him once more, but unfortunately, we have representatives of the Croats who are in the Serbian Republic in their congregation you can think they were for the demolition and highways under quotes did not read the material. If this time in Posavina, which has been neglected by watching the return of the Croatian people in Posavina, it is one time open, which is the Prime Minister with my own way of saying, with this urgent procedure, the calling of Dodik, if we continue to solve further problems in the Bosnian Posavina which, of course, we have both Derventa and the Bosnian Brod and Prijedor and Banja Luka and if one thing that bothers our fellows who cannot yet make their homes, which the houses are destroyed, that tragedy be these people who were meant to and were very, very afraid that their houses would collapse, they built those 80 houses, and the village was completely burned down. And you can think when you invest your money again and threaten to tear down those 80 houses by destroying 3 villages that had 8,000 once inhabitants. In my last speech, and I will repeat I spoke in that village was killed in a barn of 558 people in one day. These people today my generation and older than me, no man in that village remembered his grandfather. Such tragedies that people survived, but not only that, these villages and many, many, many, many villages, nearly 10% of the population were killed in II. the world's work, of course, after the war stopped, not during the war, but after the war stopped. That's what I'm saying. And today is a tragedy where 200,000 people have been expelled, no one is helping them. But here's a thank you to the Prime Minister once again from this pay phone, and I must say this to heaven I am grateful to him and congratulate him on all that he has done for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148217	Thank you very much. The next club, which is not a club, will be the individual presentation of the respected representative Vlaha Orepic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148219	Dear fellow citizens, the Honorable Chairman, colleagues and fellow citizens, no progress in human history was possible without faith in success, without faith that what we have is not a done deal, and that is why no matter how quiet it is I am here to mention, by any means, that we have a hair and a policy based on an election check and that is being prepared again. That we have the police and the DORH who are silent about these facts, that we also have a president who apparently has a cat that has torn his tongue when it comes to the subject. These days, they caught a lady in Metkovic who, due to her fake residence, said she damaged the Republic of Croatia by 190.000 kuna. Imagine a woman from a minimum of 250,000 fake residences, so in Zagreb alone, we have 50,000 fake residences. It is a pure act of fraud policy towards its own citizens, but also against those who are fighting in this wrong way for life. I want to say that a society like us, as a society, must finally step out of that mud. This step that we must take in our own future should begin with a step to establish the exact number of citizens, the exact number of citizens, to establish credible lists of voters, to go to the polls and thus get legal and legitimate authority. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we just can't move on like this. We can no longer tolerate buses that are organised to us by the voters who shouldn't be. We cannot tolerate a policy that tolerates 250,000 votes more than the total number of minors. We cannot tolerate a policy that tolerates cities that have more voters than the number of people such as Makarska, etc., we cannot tolerate a policy that tolerates 250,000 minimally fake voters. It's like one Split and Solin together, it's two Osijeks to you, it's like Rijeka and Zadar together, it's like 4 Slavonska Broda, 4 Pula, 4 Karlovac or Sisak. It's like all of Istria to you, it's like five Sibeniks, Dubrovnik or Bjelovar. We must not deal with this situation in terms of a security problem, it is about organised fraud of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's just no other name for it. Dear citizens, with the co-signation of 40 parliamentary deputies, I also warned the European Commission of this problem of breaking Croatian laws as well as EU contracts and charters. Just so you know, this initiative was not joined by either HDZ, MOST, ma nor sovereigns nor Independent for Croatia, but not by the SDSS, nor by the Labour and Solidarity Party. Among them is the covenant of love and silence. So, dear people, watch who does what, not who says what. I am the only minister to deal with this problem, and at the time it was wiped out or put into the procedure of 70,000 people of fake residences, 70,000, at the time you could hear in Vukovar that I was getting up, and in the south that I was a Chetnik. And that's when they stopped me. Who stopped me? I've been put up by those who are manipulating and stockpiling on this one woman today, and that's how they want to say they're doing something about it. Finally, is there anything more normal, dear colleagues and fellow citizens, that at all times we know the exact number of residents, that at any moment we know the exact number of citizens, that we have credible lists of voters? Is there anything more patriotic, I'll repeat if there's anything more patriotic than ensuring fair elections? There's no ladies and gentlemen, there really isn't. So let's gather around, that makes sense, and we fight for a new political reality that will be based on fair elections. Believe me, you can be, because it's just not over. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u148220	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164234	And now we're moving on to today's planned agenda. I propose to base Article 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Proposal for an Annual Report on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and the Proposal for an Annual Report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2018; - Proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2019 and the Proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2019; Do you agree with this proposal? If it is, then I'd like to say that we're going to have a united debate on both points. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Articles 110 and 109. Budget law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now like to ask the Honorable Zdravko Maric, Minister of Finance to give an additional explanation of these proposals. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164235	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. Here, as already said, we will try to combine the Annual Report and the half-year report on the implementation of the 2018 budget, i.e. the first half of 2019, as well as the Budget Law, which the Croatian Parliament voted to present what is most important and approximately and in the structure of the law itself. You know that these reports are quite extensive, we count hundreds, even over thousands of pages of data, figures, classifications of various, all transparent, all public, all open and certain as the most important document that is adopted within one year is important that both its execution and what happened and happened in an adequate manner and we discuss, of course, in the Croatian Parliament as well as last year 2018, that first part of the report speaks of macroeconomic indicators I think everyone is very well known and well known, but as some kind of introduction is not bad and they are mentioned. So last year, economic activity continued to grow in the Republic of Croatia. The total growth rate was 2.6%, and we know well that we were following the dynamics from the quarter to the quarter, there was a quarter where there was something and above some expectations, something below, I think we all remember very well that in the 4th quarter there was one slowdown of economic activity where in some way we opened our eyes in some way that we couldn't possibly say over the economic picture in the Republic of Croatia everything is good, everything is fine and nothing needs to be further improved because I think that 4th quarter, and also some other results from 2019 I would say at this point two basic key, we want to say weaknesses or challenges of the economy, and this is one side of the visible situation with industrial production in certain segments where even negative growth rates are recorded, and here I don't mean only the ship industry I't think that I've said it several times, and I believe that today there's only a number of times the industrial sectoral industry's going to be a total number of industrial construction, but the total number of the total year's total of the total of the total of the total of the total of the year of the year. So whatever happened there can't and there's no such weight in total industrial production, so we're talking about a number of other sectors, and narrowly about it, and also as one of the things to be warned about is still the high import dependence of our economy. As soon as we see domestic demand and consumption that is growing, and that's good, as soon as we see investment demand and consumption growing, that's even better, I'd say, mostly for the first 6 months of this year when we have 10% growth in investment consumption as soon as we see the growth of exports of goods and services. We also see parallel growth in imports of goods and services. That's the item that practically negative contributions have in GDP. And that's why we care and talk and we speak from the executive authority. I believe that the vast majority of people unrelated to the various political views in the Croatian Parliament agree with the need to further take action to contribute to the Croatian economy to strengthening and empowering and domestic components and reducing and import dependence, i.e. in the translation of strengthening the resistance of the Croatian economy to numerous shocks. Otherwise, as regards 2.6 last year, the biggest contribution came from investment growth and personal consumption, which increased 4.1 and 3.5, respectively. Exports of goods and services 2.8, and here is the already mentioned import of goods and services 5.5%. Also, inflation last year was at an average level of around 1.5%. It is good that positive trends in the labour market continue. I will mention the first rate of unemployment that remains in decline, however, I will re-absorb that the key indicator of the labour market is that we should observe the rate of activity of citizens, i.e. labour force and employment rates. Is she enough at this point, should we all be satisfied with her? I'm going to say no right now, we should all strive more and higher rates of economic growth that will then generate and strengthen the employment of food, ultimately behind all of these macroeconomic indicators, the key element is that we have an adequate and strong employment rate, or above all what will generate wage growth, standards and in general all that we want. Further steps have also been taken and I would say positive results in terms of our external balance or correction of external imbalances. These days, the CNB presented some revised data in terms of different methodologies and terminology, however, it should be said in any case that the excess current balance of payments account trend continued. You know well that as far as the stock balance is concerned, we are traditionally, practically from our independence in the deficit, more importing goods than we export. As far as services are concerned, we are also traditionally in surplus, which is because of tourism, which is because of transport and some others where we export more than we import. The income from more foreign investment in Croatia than our investment abroad is also down, but given the fact that many of our people work abroad and transfer their funds here at the transfer balance we are also in the plus. All together when you add up last year's balance of current account plus 2.6% and the trend of foreign debt reduction continues. I repeat, the CNB once again published revised data, so they are something different, but it is a trend, and the trend is that it is reduced and that it is at about 75% of GDP levels and I will only briefly remind you, not so long ago our total foreign debt, so not only of the state but foreign debt of all of us together and the citizens and the economy and the banks and the state was over 100%. Which means that in one year we owed more than what we produced in that same year, all together to the abroad. These trends are improving anyway, and that's good, but, of course, we all have to strive to make these trends even better. Now we come to the budget itself, here I will present in the first part of the State Budget. So, as far as total revenues are concerned, I'm talking about total revenues in the total state budget. They were reached at $129.4 billion compared to the previous year, a year before 5.5% higher. I'm going to go a little bit further into the decompression of that data, so to be a little clearer picture, but I'm also going to remind you that at the end of last year, we had this kind of technical rebalancing and even compared to technical rebalancing, we had about 0.2% more income than we had at the time. We focus most on the Ministry of Finance on tax revenues, these are those who ultimately have a major impact on the overall result of fiscal policy or budget. Tax revenues in 2018 they amounted to 78 billion kuna and recorded an increase of 3.7% year-on-year. I was representing the budget some time ago saying that on the income tax item there would be 0, on the income tax item of 20,7 million kuna, these are some backlogs from previous years based on savings interest. You know that since 1.1.2018. The central government, the state budget, has completely waived income from income tax, so they are no longer in this report, they are income units of local and regional self-government. The profit tax was made at 8.5 billion kuna, which is an annual growth of 2.7%. I repeat once again, this very tax form, I would say may have been unfair, but well, at least he was debated and when we talked about him in the first round of tax changes, and also in some of the following, therefore the profit tax was reduced from 20 to 18 for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to 12. At this point, today 85% of the total number of entrepreneurs pay taxes to 12%. In a few weeks I will come before you with a proposal for new tax changes where we will extend the limit for these small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to 7.5 million kuna traffic. According to these calculations, 93% of entrepreneurs will be at 12%. The result of a reduction in the profit tax rate in the first year was a growth in income from a profit of almost 17%. This year, i.e. 2018, an additional 2.7 on the trail and economic activities, as well as all these measures I'm talking about. Value added tax 2018 51.6 billion kuna, 8.3% growth. As far as value added tax is concerned, the key variable affecting it on one hand is the consumption of citizens with it is a narrowly available income, employment rate, consumer sentiment that has significantly improved and tax changes, and, in general, economic activity, let's not forget last year's record tourist season, all of which had an impact on better collecting income from value added tax, of course, I'm going to absorb and commend and the work of my colleagues and all tax authorities, whether we're talking about tax administration, whether we're talking about customs services and others, of course. As regards special taxes and excise duties 15.9% annual growth of 4.8%, income from contributions, so contributions from 2018. We are still adding to the contribution to pension insurance and the contribution to work injuries and the contribution for the unemployed. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These latter two no longer exist, we abolished them with the latest tax changes, but as regards 2018. 24.9 billion annual increase of 7.3% and this is also the best indicator of labour market trends, employment and wages above all. Now we come up with revenue from the aid that has been made in the amount of 10.7 billion kuna, of which over 90%, 93% are revenue from the aid actually made by the European Funds. The increase in the international level is 26.8%, so we continue to record very high strong two-digit growth rates, but we will continue to say and conclude, so the rates of the treaty are close, we have reached levels of almost 100%, but what is important is, of course, the absorption itself and then the validation of these funds itself, which is what the Republic of Croatia still has in front of it as a challenge, which is more, the more the topic that is very current and will be the topic of current during our presidency, the debate on the multiannual financial framework, and there is a very clear communication of our views and there is something that we will insist on from the first day on, and that is among other things that we are trying to keep that co-financing rate at the same level, because you know that the Commission's proposing that national co-financing is increasing, which other words mean additional pressure on national budgets, and local budgets, so let's say one of which is one of course, which is more than on this yearly, in the financial and in this particular financial conversation. The proceeds from the assets were achieved in the amount of 2.3 billion kuna, which is a reduction of 24,8 per year, inside you know how to raise our dividend incomes, profit from state-owned enterprises, profits from the CNB which practically last year were not. As for the expenditure of the state budget, they were carried out in the amount of $129.6 billion and about 1.6% are less than the plan and I can say here right now, the third year in a row, the '16th, '17th and 18th, not only to record, you will hear later, the total results of the budget and public debt, not only to record good results, the descending trend of public debt, the surplus budget, etc., but what we are particularly pleased with is the fact that this year we have not breached the limit of consumption that we have drawn up, and that is what is actually one of the key and important things, so you heard just now, we have a growth of income, not as it used to be used to grow income on some other things, but rather to stick to spending limits, even 1.6% below. Now, when we look at the economic classifications that are items and what has affected the increase or fall, but also the overall result of the expenditure, we start from the cost of employees. You remember we're 2017. had an agreement with trade unions in 3 times the increase in pay base 2+2, those first 2% had a more complete effect in 2017, but these remaining 2+2 was well spilled in 2018. And there are expenditures made in the amount of 28.1 billion kuna, which is about 1.4 billion kuna more than a year ago, the material expenditures of 13.1 billion kuna, which is somewhere around 246 million kuna more than a year ago. On the one hand, we have that segment that we call the cold drive of all the resistors, so classic material expenditures in a wider range, but also on the other hand an increasing and larger share of those related to co-financing of European funds. Financial expenses, my favorite theme. You know that from the first day I've been standing behind this speaker and I've been talking to you, the distinguished MPs and MPs, I'm talking about the necessity and importance and the need to improve the credit rating, both on the international and on the domestic stage for the simple reason that, at the time of 2015, we reached the maximum on the issue, I sincerely hope that we have maximum on the share and generally the amount of interest expenditure, almost 12 billion kuna we paid only in 2015, which was 3.3% of GDP that we have to start to change. Reduce the cost of expenditure on interest, so the cost of all our debts from past periods is unrelated to the Government, one or the one, but the fact is that we as taxpayers pay interest too much and this is visible and that this trend of reduction continues. In total, 3 years, 3 billion kuna, so more than 25% we cut interest costs and I can tell you that in 2019, I'm almost sure when Eurostat is 4 months old. In 2020, the data for 2019 will be published because all of our funding instruments that we have made so far, I will just remind you of the last one, we issued a 10-year bond on the international market on a historically low interest rate of 1.3%. A few weeks ago, we had the first edition of the vault record, it's a one-year instrument with a negative interest rate, for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, and we're refinanced by debts that didn't have a number of times, 2, 3, and four times more expensive. So the focus on interest reduction is visible here as well. As for subsidies, 6.6 billion kuna, the most significant part of course, goes for agriculture, but also some other parts, such as rural development or rural development. Help days abroad, 15.3 billion kuna or 96.3 plans. Most of it concerns our contribution and the EU budget's budget, which last year amounted to 3.3 billion kuna, and I have to tell you that this year will be 3.7 and very likely increased by an additional 170 million kuna, there is still a very large uncertainty about Brexit, but these are facts. The transfer of funds to HZZO, there are also several former ministers, or officials who know very well what we got or didn't get or lose with the release of HZZO from the Treasury, but the fact therefore, last year the transfer was somewhere at 3.1 billion. There are, 0.8 limes in the price of fuel for Croatian roads, which is a total of around 2 billion. Additional funds for the decentralisation of 1.6 billion kuna, an unsettled delivery to the healthcare system of an additional 500 million kuna. Then we come up with the most important item, these are the fees to citizens and households where the most significant item of pension and pension income is. Peace and pension incomes both in public space and in HS very much debate, I always return to those basic parameters. 1.3 employees or insurance on one pensioner, an average pension of 42%, every 5th pensioner with full age pension. I think that these are indicators that really when they go on and in the context of Croatia, but mainly international comparisons put us really into one, I would say not exactly a favourable position. However, this is the situation we are facing and you know that since the first day, all the items of the budget have been put on the table as potentially something where it requires some savings and some kind of rationalisation, except for pensions. Last year, the pensions were made at 39.3 billion, an increase of 1.6 billion kuna, a good part because of the indexation, which is due to the inflow of new pensioners, due to the transfer of measures that took place in 2017 as well as some legal changes. For this year, the amount is, by all accounts, going up to 41 billion kuna. These are the last of our data since the indexation recently taking place, or payment now in October has shown little more than we originally planned, so it will be necessary to provide an additional 900 million kuna by the end of this year, but the message from this pay phone for the pensioners, there is no concern, the funds will be secured and the pension will be paid under no question. So it's all going to be the way it's supposed to be. Social care fees were made in the amount of 2.4 billion kuna. Supplement for children billions and 300, other expenditures, we also have transfers to Croatian railways, highways, maritime transport, etc., 6.8 billion kuna and expenditures to obtain non-financial assets 2.7 billion kuna. The component of this report is both the budget and outside the budget users, six of them. Total revenues are 33.3 billion kuna, total expenditure 30.7. Whether or not it is combustion, but literally all 6 extra budget users, DAB, Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund, CERRP, HZZO, water and road, all ended up in surplus last year. The smaller, the bigger, but the one also praises valuable information. Now, when we add all this together and when we get to the level of the first state budget, I'm going to repeat once again, the total income minus the total expenditure of the state budget, last year they led us almost to the balance of the state budget, 191.5 million kuna was less or 0.1% of GDP. Almost balance for the first time. When compared to the year before which was a record of the overall score of the state, then the deficit of the state budget was 2.3 billion kuna. Now we are down to almost 0, with the fact that I have to mention, in 2018, this same state budget gave up over 2 billion and 200 million kuna of income tax revenue and gave it to the local state. So, with all these elements, we practically balanced the state budget for the first time, and that's something special, apostrophe, not just from the perspective of the finance minister, but from all of us together in the government, and I think, everyone who cares about the budget can in some way conclude that we can be satisfied with that data. Out-of- budget users achieved an surplus of 2.6 billion kuna or 0.7% of GDP, above expectations as well. And as far as the local state is concerned, it's the only one that, if we compare it to the plan value, has failed, so the original plan was over 330 million, the deficit of 421 million kuna has been completed. The total result of the general government according to the national methodology of what we report in the Croatian Parliament, the planned value was less than 0.1% or 300 million kuna, we achieved an excess of 2 billion kuna or 0.5%, that is a national methodology. Now, the national methodology and what we report and send to EUROSTAT with a small note, the responsibility for the compilation of public finances statistics is not at the Ministry of Finance but at the DZS and the CNB. We're just the ones delivering the data we're looking for. These two institutions together with EUROSTAT, the European Statistical Office, which verifys this, publishes the data. Data were published during the 4th month which took into account between the other and the correction. The biggest correction that took place in 2018 is the question of the protested, charged protested guarantees of the group's Uljannik. I'll be sure of the occasion during today's debate so I won't spend too much time in explication, but the fact I repeat again, we paid as taxpayers 4.5 billion kuna of protested guarantees for the construction of ships of which the vast majority was not built or ever started to be built. Why did we pay? Because someone signed it if someone invited us to bail that we'd have to pay, so we had to pay. How did EUROSTAT treat bail payments? He treated everything that was paid in 2018 as an integral part of the 2018 score to round up 2 billion 550 million in 2018, the remaining nearly 2 billion in 2019. However, the total amount of guarantees of € 4.5 billion is all recorded in public debt statistics 2018. So I'm telling you here, there's no colleague of the Beljaks who calls me an accountant, purely accountingly, that someone has calculated and reported and published preliminary data for the Republic of Croatia and I'm just reporting to you about it. However, despite these corrections for Uljanik, EUROSTAT announced in the 4th month that the surplus budget of the general state is 758 million kuna or 0.2%, so I repeat once again, despite the guarantees paid for the oil we are in excess last year. As for public debt, you know, I'm going to show a little bit here, you don't see it at a distance, but I once called it a little boring, but a well-tired curve of public debt reduction continues. In three years, public debt in GDP has been reduced by almost 10% points, even nominally reduced, but even nominally. But what always compares with other countries as a percentage of public debt shares for almost 10% points. When you look at or compare the provisions of the Stability and Growth Pact and the master criteria in translation, it means that we are reducing public debt four times faster than what is expected of us in some way. And that puts us at the very top of the positive top of the EU countries in this dynamic. And public finances, which up until a few years ago were the key reason why we entered the excessive deficit procedure, why we were in the category of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances and why our credit rating was reduced twice below the investment zone, have now become the main argument why all these imbalances have been corrected. We are no longer in the excessive deficit procedure, we are no longer among countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances and we are back in the investment rating zone. That's your data. As far as the component of this report is concerned, it is a matter of fulfilling the fiscal rule. As well as some of you as members and the Committee on Finance, and in particular the Committee on Fiscal Policy knows very well, so the structural balance rule in 2018 is fulfilled, and therefore there is no need to see the rule of expenditure, but it has been fulfilled as well as the stated rule regarding public debt. And briefly, since I have little time left, only as far as the first 6 months of this year are concerned, which is that I can only say that the positive trends continue this year, so also as far as macroeconomic indicators are concerned, the growth that has been achieved in the first 6 months with, I would say, the exceptional first quarter and something weaker, but the overall growth of 3.1% with the restructure as for 2018. A strong contribution from domestic demand, mainly investment. The investment in the first 6 months is 10% growing, but I remain apostrophe of the high import dependence on the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something that every one of us in our business area must do, and ultimately what I always apostrophe, key specifics and key credit for economic growth is on the Croatian economy. It is up to us to create conditions, facilitate conditions and stimulate the entrepreneurial investment climate as much as possible. But the main credit if you want to do so for economic growth comes first of all from that economy itself. So, as far as this total data is concerned, the revenues of the 65.1 billion kuna budget, tax revenues of 37.1, which will re-absorbed one interesting piece of information. The most significant contribution to this is income tax revenues 5.3 billion, return on income income from 8.3%. A little while ago, I was talking about a reduced rate of extended base, better economic activity, more income. But it's even more interesting information about VAT. You know, from 1.1 this year we reduced VAT to a whole series of food products from fresh meat, fresh fish, fruit, vegetables, eggs, live animals, diapers, etc. and without prescription medicines, let's not forget it from 25% to 5%. Total income from profit tax of €23.5 billion or 4.7% more than the year before. As for excise fees of 7.3 billion kuna or 2.2% more contributions, I repeat once again, we now only have a pension contribution it is 11.9 billion, helping to continue with a growth rate of almost 50%. As for expenditure, I have a little time so I'll speed up but there will be opportunities, I believe through replicas and in general through the debate. They're at 47.7 planned funds. You know very well that we spend over 50%, mainly on agriculture, logically, cyclical components within the year, crops and the like. However, what should be said is that the total score in the first 6 months is also on track last year and again I would say quite good, and that is that the budget deficit in the first 6 months is at the same level as last year, billions and 800 or 0.5% of GDP, that the surplus of extra budget users is 1.7 billion kuna, also almost the same as in last year in the same period 0.4% and here is the local state for the first 6 months again in excess of a billion and 200 million kuna. When you add all this together, I repeat again by national methodology this 6-monthly report does not report to Eurostat, so it is not a European methodology, an excess of a billion kuna or 0.3%. For the rest of the year, the tourist season in the third quarter, the data we expect about GDP growth in the third quarter, etc., as well as the fact that there are still 3 months in front of us by the end of the year, you can count on us to do everything we can to maintain these positive trends in public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164236	I would like to thank Mr. Minister for his explanations. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164237	Thank you very much. Ministers of Finance, I listened to you this summer and now you have reiterated that spending is increasing in Croatia and you have now highlighted but are increasing imports alike. Now I ask you as Deputy Prime Minister, what have you done, what measures have been taken not to increase imports? You also boasted of agricultural incentives, who are these incentives to? Only last year 10% of milk was produced, dairy products in the Republic of Croatia, it's only in that segment. You're saying there's a smaller number of non-employees. Yes, since you're the minister of 100,000 people is less in the Republic of Croatia. Tell me how many employees there are. Also, I'm asking you one more question, but as vice president of the government, tell me, you say "e" funds, so we're at the bottom of withdrawing funds from the eu funds, at the bottom. We're not talking about the deal. As far as we're concerned, that's a very important question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164238	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164239	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I think you've opened a lot of topics, it's hard in a minute but there will be opportunities, I repeat once again, very clearly, I said very openly, so when we talk about import dependence, we are a member of the EU. And before we became an EU member state deeply integrated into international flows, freedom of movement of goods, capital, labour. So the restrictions of any kind on imports are forgotten. What can we do exactly what I was saying in the end? How and how to stimulate and encourage domestic production? I can speak from my own part of the Ministry of Finance and my team, which ultimately the Government supported and we came here before the Croatian Parliament, which is that measures between other and tax policies, measures not tax discharge and administrative disbursement have an impact on strengthening domestic production. You mentioned agriculture. I don't have to repeat myself publicly in the Croatian Parliament and I think you read my words very well. Reduced VAT rate from 2016 to agricultural inputs Sorry, it's already expired, huh? [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164240	I thank the ministers. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164241	Minister Maric, how long do you think you're going to lie to our tormented people? You're saying that last year there were 700 million kunas in the budget, but if that's true, then why is Zeljko Plazonic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, says there are 8 billion kunas in health debt? You run your bookkeeping in a way like you have one household, and you simply don't settle part of the expenditure, let's say for the treatment of yours, and then you simply claim at the end of the year that you're in plus and you have 8 billion dollars behind your neck or how many kunas you already owe. It means very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, And in the end, if you really do have a surplus, as you claim, then what's the government's responsibility? Why don't you tell the people how much you owe the state last year, what do you do if you have extras? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164242	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164243	Thank you very much. Your Honor, you're using a very difficult dictionary again, but I won't blame you this time either. Very clear and very transparent, health obligations, last year ended with 7 billion HRK 400 million. What goes into the scope, I didn't invent that methodology, but the European Statistical Office... is a change of obligations of 578 million kuna and that is an integral part of these figures. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Intruder Brkić: A colleague of Pernar please do not enter the word.]] So I didn't make them up, I'm telling you the way others came up with a methodology that applies to all other countries. As for the task, several times you and I have spoken to each other but in a much nicer way than when you address me this public way, then you are much more polite, I have explained nicely to you, the borrowing and every bond that the Republic of Croatia has made in my mandate is to refinance the commitments that have been made, as it has been this year. You're saying that we don't have to pay our dues and declare the difolt countries, if that's your policy, you say it publicly. So if the bond is due, the debt of the past period, whoever took that debt is neither guilty nor guilty at all, it means our obligation is to refinance the debts and repay the debts. Public debt is nominally reduced by 500 million kuna, look at the figures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164244	Comrade Pernar, please do not enter the word as the minister speaks, you have had your time. Next replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164245	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, I'm curious, you may have more detailed data on the inversion between the economy in the last three years, so 3.5, 2.9 to 2.6 and the withdrawal of eu funds. It's a little bit of a thing, so you probably have more quality data that makes it happen that we're pulling more money from the EU, he's given something component maybe the economy is lagging behind, so here's what I'm more interested in, is it normal for us to withdraw EU funds to have some kind of greater economic growth in that kind of thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164246	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164247	Thank you very much. Your Honor, this is one of me who would say key questions about the issues of the European Funds, so it is not just a matter of some kind of statistical coverage that we compare how much we pay and how much we withdraw. I think that the Republic of Croatia really won't be a country that will be more subjective, but that they will more withdraw, these figures clearly show, but it's also a key question of what it's going to go on. For example, I'm giving this first quarter of this year again, so the construction of the Peljega Bridge has started, and this is seen in the first quarter of the growth of investment, but at the same time in the second quarter, you see that a good part of it is being withdrawn among other things, and that import component, so these infrastructure projects, but also those projects that are less visible, whether we're talking about research, development, culture, whether we're talking about rural development, are all in there. But you know very well, in the budget what's good from our perspective of the Ministry of Finance, not by withdrawing and not making use of the funds doesn't affect the overall result of whether the deficit is neutral, but even make savings on that national component But of course we all strive to make the absorption bigger. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164248	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Before continuing, we welcome the first group of students and students of the Commercial Trade School from Split and their professors and professors... Welcome! [[Applause]] Thank you very much, we are moving on to the next line of the esteemed colleague Željko Jovanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164249	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, you spoke in part and about health care, I wonder how pleased you as Minister of Finance are with Minister of Health Kujundzic who in this 3rd year. failed to secure a fiscally sustainable health system. So, right now, if I'm talking about the debt to the big drugstores, it's moving around about 3.5 billion kuna, it's $2.1 billion, and it's increasing by 20 million every month. Croatian health care, we must admit, has never had more money, and at the same time the satisfaction of health workers has never been less, waiting lists are growing longer and not paying more. So Minister, is there anything you can do to make another person the head of the health system that can make health care fiscally sustainable and why you don't raise credit when interest is small to pay this debt and thus start paying within 60 days because it will start to mean 30% less costs to the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164250	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164251	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, you know that as well as you do, as I will, of course, be part of the team and my colleagues always and only well and positively speak, we work together in a good way, everyone in our portfolio, whether about all things to each other, not just my colleague Kujundzic and me, but with any other colleagues, we will always agree, of course we will not. However, as regards health care itself and this contribution you speak on the revenue side of the budget, so I will repeat 2017. within the limit, so without increasing public debt, 1.5 billion, 2018 additional 500 million also within the limit, and in 2019 I would say culmination of everything where we have increased one percentage point of health contribution, which in translation means 1.5 billion, then I was saying 1.5 billion, I am sure that it will be more at the level of this year, which is given, let's call such a contribution of the income side, of course it should also be determined and a contribution from the cost side to put this system on financially sustainable feet is undeniable to how many of you here The doctor has, you can best confirm how quality service we have [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164252	... Minister for Answering. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Grcic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164253	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Minister Maric, you are the only minister who speaks very openly and realisticly about, I would say, the weaknesses and risks of the Croatian economy and I appreciate it. So the fact is, after a very positive trend in industrial production growth, 6g. export growth and at two-digit rates, we are now in a situation that exports are falling in the last quarter, that industrial production is falling, and on the other hand, consumption is growing again and consumption is largely alimented from imports, which you have very clearly pointed out several times. So, we're back to modeling before 2013. Around, now we have a decline in industrial production, a decline in exports and a rise in consumption and import growth and a natural deterioration in the balance of payments So we expect from you, of course, the other side, and that's the solution. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164254	Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164255	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we can agree in part, of course, but I can't accept the fact that it's the same as it used to be. First and foremost, today's growth, regardless of the overall growth rate and which is slightly lower than before the recession period, is remembered for 4.5 and up to 5% growth compared to today's around 3%, was primarily stimulated by the inflow of capital from the outside generated by the growing, growing foreign debt and the growth of public debt or deficit or budget deficit. Today we have a reverse situation, we have a 4 or 5 years. We have a budget surplus, so the foreign public debt is falling. So the basis is much stronger, but it doesn't have to satisfy us in some way because the fact that industrial production, the one we're talking about, and the exports that happened, well, as a position of our entry into the EU has shown, those companies that have prepared, restructured and adapted, they have benefits from the EU, they have others challenges. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164256	The next replica of the esteemed colleague Stephen Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164257	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Minister, I support your way of treating public finances, so avoiding the logic of a drunken billionaire is if we now have more money as a state let's give it to everyone. I think it's structural, targeted and non-syphic, and that's what these tax changes tell us, which for the third year have led to both the tax discharge of both the economy and the citizens, and it also comes as a result of the growth of tax revenues. So, you pay less taxes, and the state comes in and you see this from this data, you give more taxes based on both income and income. It is now a unit of local self-government and, above all, general tax revenues. What I want is for further intents and discharges to avoid certain headlines that have appeared in a few weeks, which is to say that the cobwebs are cheating on the state or that this way of cheating should end, and we're talking about those cobwebs up to 300,000 kunas that are not.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164258	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164259	Thank you very much for this question, I doubt I'll be able to answer that in a minute, but there's going to be an opportunity. So please just to be clear, this government, this ministry from day one, I've been using every opportunity for this pay phone, in front of television cameras and any address to stimulate incentives, advertising a flat tax method, although many tax experts point to certain anomalies, but to help those small, medium, but also to tax authorities. So in no way should any conclusion be made that something is going against them. In fact, you remember that we raised between the other and the threshold for entering the VAT it was directly among other things a positive measure. This situation, someone's going to call it an anomaly, I'm going to refrain from the comments that have appeared and that they've absorbed from the information segment technology and some others, we're working on some sort of solution, but I'm going to tell you right now. The solution won't be in a way that they'll get good ones so I don't say colloquial on the head. So we're going to be looking for a constructive, good solution. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164260	I thank the Minister for his reply. The next replica and also an apology since I skipped a colleague of Maras, Gordan Maras. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164261	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you yourself said that income levels are significantly higher than they were when you took over the ministry. I'm interested in what you decide in your tax rulings not to go directly to those who have lower wages. So when we talk about changes in VAT rates and trade rates, and from next year on to the general VAT rate, it is always known that this rate is shared between employers and workers in a way that even more employers get through their margins, and workers, or citizens, feel much less. Which is why you do not decide to increase the untaxable share of salary to, say, 5,000 kuna, which is about the same amount of reduction in the total VAT rate by 1%. And secondly, you mentioned earlier, I really don't understand why you came across the artisans, so that's a very positive sense of self-employment of the smallest entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, I strongly oppose it and such an aggressive approach to portray them as criminals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164262	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164263	First I'm going to refer to this second part, I don't know if you've listened to my answer to the previous question and where you've heard from any of my public address and any measure I don't know from what you're reading what you're talking about right now. Read the law and read what has been done so far in the matter of the sheets. On the contrary, stimulating and encouraging the flat-rate tax method despite criticism by tax experts and advisers that point to certain irregularities. So, just the opposite of what you're saying. As for the small or large salaries of the first day here in the assembly, you and some others have called the first round of tax reform in a Colloquial way on that Alan Ford character. Right? The data shows something completely different. In these three years, the average wage growth when you look at any quintiles or decids, data are publicly available to the State Statistics Office, shows that the highest wage increases for those with the lowest income compared to these are not only the tax measures in terms of income tax but also the non-taxable receipts that we have increased significantly, but also the growth of minimum wages. Untaxable share of income, personal deduction is here A lot of mayors and mayors, so they should ask what they say on the subject. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164264	I thank Minister Maric. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164265	Thank you very much. In 238, Mr. Minister injured, he said that I object to the increase in wages to those who have the lowest wage. On the contrary here in the Croatian Parliament we said that it is not fair to increase the salary of a thousand, two, three thousand kuna to those who have 30,000 kuna salaries, not to those who have neither 4,500 or 5,000 kuna. And on that side, you can't possibly increase their salary more than these because simply people who have 5,000 kuna salaries can't have an increase of 1,000 or 2 kuna, right? So then don't say that you've increased the ones that have lower wages than those that have 30,000. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164266	Comrade Maras, you have re-abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you already have one warning, I will not take your word from you now, but next time I will take away your word for the rest of this debate on this agenda point. We're moving on to the next line. Dear fellow Snow White Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164267	Thank you. Dear Ministers, I remember some of the previous findings of the State Audition, over and far referred to the irregularities observed, but except that the people were morally disgusted by the Assembly but nothing particularly happened on this matter. And this time, let's say, the view that the dynamics of withdrawing aid from the EU are not satisfactory, is also the opinion that the slow withdrawal of funds from EU funds poses a risk for some of the available funds to remain unused. The financial perspective from 2014 to 2020 is the first in which Croatia has participated as a full member from the very beginning. During that period, we were made available to €10.676 billion from EU funds, and we needed to transfer this money through projects into development levers in order to really get the most out of EU membership. Today we used as much as 11%. So the bottom line is that we're more of a member than we're willing to pull out. I hope it's time to wake up from collective hypnosis. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164268	I thank my colleague, Sabolek. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164269	Thank you very much, distinguished MPs, so I talked a little bit about this data, so 10.7 billion were last year, so almost 30% increase, in the first 6 months of this year almost 50%. And I said to myself, we're still not at the levels at which we would reach that level that's, say, the situation now with, say, some other countries that have come in long before our entry, some kind of normal rate of absorption. So this space still has, we still have whatever the existing financial perspective and that period n+3 when it can be withdrawn, so everything has to be done to pull and exploit these funds. As for the total balance, the balance is very simple, I told you last year we paid 3.3 billion kuna, this year we will pay 3.7 very probably increased by these 170 million kunas which I just said because we got that letter a few days ago, but the withdrawal but withdrawal, you see for yourself in budget figures, we're talking about the amount of over 10 billion kuna, so the meaning of the balance, the cash balance, how much we withdrew or calculated, We're still in the plus. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164270	Mr. Secretary. The next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164271	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President of HS, Your Honor. In your presentation, you said some things that should actually be remembered when we talked about that tax reform and the skepticism of our esteemed colleagues in the opposition, and in fact, at that time we dropped one part of the VAT from 25% to 13%, and the intensity was to strengthen the consumer basket to be higher, so that both fresh meat and frozen meat and fruit and vegetables decreased to 13%, and some things to 5%, i.e. medicines, diapers and children's food. Nevertheless, in this year, VAT revenue is higher by 8.3% and almost 52 billion kuna respectively. How is that possible, how is it possible to be less? And something else perhaps in the end, perhaps I haven't heard, enough I don't know how much of an RH foreign reserve is at this point? Maybe the public should say... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164272	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164273	So, as far as VAT and tax policy issues are concerned, I did some time ago when I was asked by the media and the public, and that's what I was talking about in HS about, I said that with tax policy, where luck we could solve all our problems, but here, it turns out that's not really the case. And then now, among other things, one good intention and measure that no matter what, I believe that a good part of you and supported that reduction of VAT to certain items did not result in the desired extent that we all wanted. To be honest, we didn't expect there to be a complete drop in those wholes, but actually when you look at the fruit it's cheap and meat while vegetables and fish have gathered, drugs, again I repeat, there are many health ministers and healthcare professionals who can testify much more about it. Which is why, in fact, they're just showing and saying that it's not just about tax policies, as far as it's concerned. International reserves, 21 billion euros. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164274	I thank the ministers. Next replica, dear colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164275	To reduce public debt, I have heard it from the prime minister in the current hour, however, there cannot be one truth of the minister and the government, and the other truth of analysts, banks and media, and in the media I read and heard that the public debt in March meant increased by 3.2 billion or 1.1% more or at the state level, since March of last year by 5.9 billion kuna or 2.1%. I mean, we can't, one truth is government truth, and the other truth is analysts, banks and those who work on it. As in tourism. The minister says our tourist season is better than last year, and it turns out it's not. That analysis says it's worse tourist season. After all, we all saw here that there were fewer tourists than last year, well, that's an impression thing, but statistics are statistics. Don't tell me about the methodology if the banks and analysts talk one way or the other. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164276	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164277	Thank you very much, Your Honor, very simple answer to this question. There's no different interpretation, there's statistics for all equals. If you're looking at public debt, you should normally look at it at the end of the accounting period, which is the end of the year. When you single out the 3rd month, if the Republic of Croatia issues a bond in the 3rd month. which pays off the due bonds at 4 p.m. I mean, normally when you draw a line and you say it in the third month. and each other and bonds are in a state of public debt, in the fourth month. This one's gone. That's why you see the end of the year as such, public debt data from the State Statistics Institute, the CNB and Eurostat show you this. So, 83.7% at the end of 2015, 74.6% of GDP at the end of last year. In nominal amounts, 284,4 billion, then the same amount at the end of last year. So these are your figures, and whether you pre-financing for payment from month to month, we issued the bond at month 4 or 5 this year, we will not pay off the bond until 11 months. The level of this will only come at the end of the year and these are the only ones relevant [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Data. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164278	Mr. Secretary, be careful on time, please. Next replica, dear colleague Vladimir Bilek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164279	... Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Honored Minister and Deputy Prime Minister. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Well, first of all, you can finally see the results of all these tax reforms that have been made and you are the creators of it and therefore I thank you to the complete Croatian government for going in this direction. It has been shown that, finally, the results of the state budget show exactly the increase in consumption, stabilisation and everything you've been saying. Of course there are, there are certain problems, you said, there are certain constraints and there are around budget implementation and all around, but you also said that there are positive trends for this year, but we have some intuitions that probably, and if we continue this way we will not implement the operational programmes of the government that we have plotted, and in order to implement the operational programmes of the Government we need to ensure their quality implementation, and we have already been to you several times. I hope we find a common language there, though, that what the trend began in '15, '16, '17, '18. And what do we have here in the report? That's '19. be that way, and '20. No, no, no. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164280	Thank you. Answer, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164281	It is my duty, Your Honor, both to you and all Croatian parliamentary representatives and all citizens to speak openly, plainly and transparently. So, as far as the budget situation is concerned, I've just presented the first six months. It's no secret, and by the end of the year, as it has been in recent years, there's always a certain need for some kind of means that you didn't originally plan. I just mentioned my pensions. The indexation of pensions, especially this other one, is significantly larger than what was originally predicted. At such a large amount, it is 900 million kuna that we must provide additionally. I repeat again another time because the pensioners are following this session, that in no case will they come under the question of pension payments. So, pensions are safe, there's no choir at all. Like some other things you know well, I've said many times, we've also committed to paying the salaries 3+2% increase in the basics for civil servants and public servants. At this point we're still missing about 400, 500 million and we'll secure them. As for the operational programme for minorities, here we speak, unbound now on volume but just as we have negotiated and discussed and for that purpose... funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164282	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164283	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. At times, it seems to me that it would be good if the police issued a ban on other ministers to you less than 50 metres away. Why am I saying that? Yesterday, a media release showed up that one of the options for resolving debts to wholesales is also the government's borrowing to pay off the debt. And I don't see any problems here, you can do it. However, my question now in principle, in which way you as a minister can talk to other colleagues, in which way you can ask them to cover for what they are asking for their respective ministries and of course they are looking, everyone is looking for, someone justifiably, someone not, to solve their problems. Because Minister Kujundzic, from his statement the other day, says he will now start talking to hospital founders. And what was he doing all the time? Which is why there's no plan to show you a clear plan of what's going to happen if you do take credit, I don't mean you personally, but if the government does, settle the debts, what time will those debts come again? In this regard, I am interested in your relationship with other ministers and how you retain this autonomy of decision-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164284	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164285	As I am a distinguished representative to you openly and transparently both to my colleagues in the government. So I think we have a very high-quality, constructive dialogue on many things to expect. It is impossible for us to be together again, now somehow, colleagues Kujundzic and I, any colleague and I or any of the general colleagues in the government, to agree on everything, certainly not. So as for certain differences in views in the end, the Government as a collective body takes certain views. So as for the issues and health care and so on. State hospitals, KBCs and so on. local hospitals, HZZO, all health institutions. The numbers are here, and I've been responding to some of the other MPs before. So the indisputable fact with the system as such is quality and I think comparing myself with other countries is that very little if one country has such quality and availability and health service availability but also the financial aspect is something that we all need to put attention to together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164286	Thank you. Dear colleague Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164287	Dear Minister, you said yourself that... In charge and that transparency is so it would be good to have here if you knew some data very transparently in the budget, let's define ourselves according to one section that is related to the defence population and that is clear how much costs are in the Ministry of Defence that are greater than the Ministry of Culture. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we also have those losses in the budget relating to the benefits of defenders. So, by the way, do you know how much the budget is alluding to the fact that defense attorneys don't pay extra insurance? How much does the budget go for since defenders don't pay taxes to re-use agricultural land and how many defenders are employed who get gross earnings for the net? So they don't pay contributions or pay taxes. It is a direct loss to the budget and these are then benefits that we all say should be clear and transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164288	Thank you, Mr. Gristle. Answer, Minister Maric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164289	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, also statistics from the Pension Insurance Office, very clear, very transparent. So for this year's plan, the original plan that will be increased by 40.1 billion, I say it will be 21 billion at the end but we stick to the original plan. Of the 40.1 billion kunas of planned pensions and pension incomes, it is planned to accept 23.6 billion revenues from contributions to pension insurance, it is intergenerational solidarity. So we have a 16.5 billion kuna hole that we have to replace from other general sources and receipts, other taxes, other types of public giving. If we just focus not on defenders, but on all pensions under special regulations, you know it very well, they're colloquial, I'd say, uglyly called privileged, they're pensions by special regulations, when you add them all together, it's 5.9 billion. Turn them off all the way out and you're still down 10 billion. But you are well aware that the Croatian defenders who tasked this state did not only achieve their pension by the foundation of their internship as defenders but worked both before and after. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164290	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Anka Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164291	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, so the figures are very clear, you explained them, and we can discuss the figures one way or another. But I'm interested in one other thing, when you were talking about it, you were talking about the part of the budget, the income that's a cold drive and the part that's paid, which is about pay. Since we do have an announcement of a series of protests, tomorrow they're nurses, there's teachers, there's people working at the MUP, they expect to be next, what's your position. What's the backup? What are the options? Because the resolution ministers, of course, will probably in one part and support it all together, but they'll transfer the problem to you. And I'm interested in what are the real possibilities and what is your position and how much space is there? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164292	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164293	Thank you very much for such a good and nicely addressed question and I don't want to answer you in any other way but you know very well and you were the same part of the government that actually did not have that part of the talks with the unions and there were no corrections. So, my position from the first day and I got the support of both the Prime Minister and the rest of the team in the government and the Minister of Labour then as well as the new one. We focused on the base and we corrected the base on several occasions. All together to this day, the basics, so the salary has increased by over 11% to all government and public officials. I'm not advocating to Uralwolf as it's called, but in order to get rid of the Uralwolf, we need to open up a regulation on the complexity of jobs and coefficients of these same jobs because it's not the same thing today that police work at the border is doing 10 years ago. Ten years ago, this was not the case as it is today in some other professions. But as long as it's done, we won't wait and go with those basics. As a result, I'd say it was good dynamics. A further increase in the base was also planned for next year. Now with these new elements, we'll see about that. Talks continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164294	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivica Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164295	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister Maric. I as an entrepreneur must tell the truth and thank you very much you have done and done. I'd just like to compliment you on your financial management. Entrepreneurs have already felt the untaxable 7 grand and what's going on now from 3 grand to 7 grand you're going to give because it's going to be over 80, 90% and 12% on profit. I think you're doing a good job, you're doing it cautiously, you're running the financials very well, and I don't think anyone's done it so far and you've stabilized the finances, you've stabilized the country. You've gotten into the big problems you've solved and I can only say thank you, you've done enough that no one's ever done before. And take care of the finances, we see they're asking for salaries bigger than the budget, not the profits. And as soon as they mention defense pensions, I'm going to ask you a question, 14,000 Partisan pensions, we're wondering where it's going, and who gets it? And that's what you should be counting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164296	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164297	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your kind words, even though I will continue to do so. I think all my colleagues and predecessors have done their job in a very good and responsible way. We are all exposed as finance ministers to numerous challenges, and it certainly wasn't easy for anyone. We have always found ourselves in situations where desires and in some ways needs are much greater than possibilities. So, as far as our policy is concerned, I just said here at the pay phone, and I think that's where we made that step to deal responsibly with all the taxpayers. Of course, always individual groups will recognize themselves more or less in some element and ask for more. But again, this whole pay issue that's now happened, I'd say on the one hand is legitimate in terms of political cycles and expectations, but on the other hand I'm not entirely sure if it's justified. Is it not a situation that no salary increase has occurred, wages have increased by more than 11% and we are planning to continue to increase. However, we must take care of all state and public officials, not in the way of the catch, I repeat again another time, and I will certainly repeat the same syntagma again and again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164298	I thank the Minister for his reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164299	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister. You said yourself, in fact the collective decision on the budget means government, ministers all who enter the limits, so I would just ask the question in 2018, 2019 about the transfer of HZZ to the budget. Why was it a decision to cut by 3 billion? The execution was 3 billion and 100 to 2600 and now we have the execution of a billion and 300 if we have such problems, what's the problem? Is it possible that the director of HZZO, how he looks for funds, how does the minister look for these funds if we see that we have growing needs, and the budget reduces transfers? This puts us in a position to now announce some extraordinary funds up to half a billion by the end of the year that should be paid off. So the question is, if we already have a trend in income growth, then is it not logical that at that position of the transfer, we secure significantly larger funds and then we patch up the problem that is now escalating? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164300	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164301	Thank you very much. On the same principle, I don't want anyone from before, he was here until just now, but he'll be back safely by the former minister. We all know very well the release of HZZO from the Treasury, I would say the eternal opposition between the Ministry of Health and Finance. Finance never by any minister would surely be for that as any minister of health would be for that. The fact is the next and very simple and very clear calculation, this reduction of this transfer from these 487 million kuna compared to the year before is more than compensated with the 1% point of health contribution. I said earlier that on an annual level will be a minimum of a billion and a half, and I expect that it will be significantly more because in the first six months it's a billion. So the health system's got a kudicate more. However, when I mentioned getting out of the HZZO State Treasury back in 2013, when it was presented, there is an exact document that says, it will be attached to redefinition and redesigning of articles 14, 72. 82. Health insurance laws that never happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164302	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected counterpart Davor Vlaovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164303	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you yourself pointed out the problem of high dependence on the economy on imports and you pointed out and the problem of falling certain economic activities, especially in the section of the agricultural decline in milk production, the fall in meat production, and you said that I agree with you that the Ministry of Finance and Tax Policy cannot solve and all the problems in the economy. You tried to raise domestic production and help consumers buy cheaper products with tax reform. We lost that game because the traders didn't all cut prices, and on the other hand you have a score in the basket and more VAT money in the state budget. However, the fact is that it is on imported goods, on imported meat and milk that unfortunately our citizens bought it. Sentiment as a cost or consumption individual exists would be bought by Slavons and cool and ham, but VAT is still lower in Bosnia, going over. So the question is, how many of our fellow citizens are going across to Bosnia and what is the outflow of money from Croatia through that segment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164304	Thank you. Answer, Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164305	I'm still waiting for that tower of yours to try it here, you keep talking about it, and I hope we finally try it until the next debate. You said very well, and from my words you heard all this time from the agricultural imputences in the next phase of fresh meat and fresh fish. I've said enough. Fruits, vegetables, live animals, we've circled the whole cycle as far as agricultural production is concerned. Of course, the total price of traders on one side of their margins will certainly always benefit from marketing campaigns, advertising that they will lower products, but of course one part of it taken into account. Okay, is it okay or isn't it okay we can talk about it. If that part of the margin will be translated into an increase in employment and salaries of its workers, I am also happy and satisfied. However, you know for yourself that not only are these two elements affected by the overall price, but also some other elements. Prices of pork on the world market in China have led to an increase, although when you watch how much is a kilo of pork today, for example, compared to a kilo of vegetables on the salary and And we know what relationships are. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164306	Next replica, dear colleague Marin Skibola, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164307	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, recently there has been a Supreme Court ruling in the case of the Swiss franc, I am interested in what the Government will now do in this matter and why not propose one law where not every man should individually go into litigation and expose himself, but that the Government simply makes the law in this context that these people are compensated for what they are damaged for, if the Supreme Court ruling is now legal, if it is found that the banks have been acting against the law, then I don't see what's holding you back in that segment. The second thing you're saying is that you're creating a surplus, you're reducing debt, you're still out of these master criteria, so the debt is still out of 60% of GDP, so now you have the cover to punish the banks for what they've been doing against the law, and then you're creating an even bigger surplus. Thank you. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164308	Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164309	Thank you very much. On this second part, I will begin because it is still related to the subject of budget execution, so the public debt, I said earlier, despite the fact that over 60%, as with most EU member states, is not an excuse for us, is reduced by a dynamic 4 times faster than the one prescribed, that provision says if over 60% has to be reduced by a minimum of one twenty, if we are today, round to 75%, 60 is this magical limit, 15 is the difference divided by 20 would be 0.75 per year, and we are reducing it 3% points, so we are 4 times faster and therefore we get, so let's call it, the locks or the commendation by the European Commission in terms of meeting these conditions. As for the other side of the public debt, in the Croatian public debt almost everything that can be included is already included, as far as the Supreme Court's ruling itself is concerned, it is not up to us to interpret the decisions of the judicial authorities as independent. As far as any legal solutions are concerned, It has been in the past, but I repeat once again, we must look at the whole. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164310	I thank the minister. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Velligay, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164311	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Minister, here you like to boast that you are income tax, here today I think you've done the same thing twice, to units of local self-government, that is, in principle, correct, but you haven't given up on it as one instrument for implementing tax policy that is of course in the domain of the state. So, after that, certain revenues that have been made by larger local units, you take through the new tax changes to local self-government about 800 million, and some estimates even say up to a billion kuna at exactly the moment of intense use, intensely meaning working on EU funds projects, so you have a component that you have to finance from the local budget, in the moments when the prices of municipal infrastructure works went to heaven, somewhere and 50% up, the moment you have the pressure on childcare because unemployment has fallen, so I'm just curious now that you're planning at least what compensations at the moment there are these strong as you pointed out. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164312	Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164313	The answer to this last part very briefly is not, and as far as this is concerned, these measures, so you know well, we've talked about it a lot, the measure proposed by this government is all of you local leaders, I would say, positively surprised, no one expected that we would completely give up income tax and then we said that we would strengthen your income side, to strengthen your capacity for investments that you can take on your own, which you can co-finance from European funds, which is a good part of 576 units of local and regional self-government, we can't generalise, the good part and works, but there are also those who have translated it into increased employment, increase the mass of wages, etc. When we talk about young people and youth measures, in a few weeks there will be this topic on the table, so we'll talk about it a little bit more, it's not nice and it's not polite, please don't mind me, but I won't say no to your question, so where do you young people live, so they live in the same cities and municipalities that we're talking about. On the other hand, take an example of a proposal for a measure that was for private owners. Did we not give either scissors and fabric or skirt to local self-government, you use the mechanisms you have and determine private renters How many local units did that? [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164314	Thank you for your response. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164315	Thank you. Mr. Minister, the state budget report you are now here has been reviewed by the state audit. She brought it here, made very big remarks, and that's why you got a conditional opinion. So, as the Dubrovnikers say, here are some findings of the state's audits in fine terms, and I'm telling you based on the findings of the state's audit that the data... The state budget is not correct and we cannot consider them true. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are a few arguments I'll have later, so I'm going to kill most of the arguments that you here are gently exporting, you haven't entered the debts of the University of Croatia of 803 million kuna into a long budget, no, no problem of the hospital health system at least 3, and even up to 6 billion, no debts of companies owned by local administration, self-government over 10 billion. Therefore, the deficit is much higher and public finances are in a much worse situation, and you're talking and painting to us. Here's a story that has nothing to do with reality. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164316	Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164317	Your Honor, my professor, you read the report well yourself, but clearly not entirely correct, it will be a little later for you to be representatives of the State Audit Office. In the opinion of the State Audit Office, the annual report for 2018 has been drawn up in all more important specifics in accordance with the Budget Law, and truthfully and crediblely demonstrates the implementation of the State budget except in the section described in the section of the basis for the conditional opinion on the annual report. True and credible, so I ask you nicely when you speak publicly to quote, ask and you will receive an answer from both me and the president of the State Audit Office which is not. The university is not in the main book, universities aren't in the main book, we go inside according to the methodology prescribed by the Budget Law and all other methodologies that inside as I just did to my colleagues about health, changes in obligations and debts. Your interpretation, read a little bit better I'm reporting to the DUR you'll have a chance to ask them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164318	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Željko Lackovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164319	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here is one commendation for the results of the first six months of this year, one billion and 200 excess, and then one appeal of conscience. For what reason did the Ministry of Science refer to all universities so as to project budgets in which they must create their own programmes and so for the regular activity of the University of the North, which is northwestern Croatia has a slightly less than 6,000 kuna per student enrolled? To compare how fair it is for other universities, the other universities have between 14,000 per student in Pula and 28,000 in Dubrovnik. The biggest Zagreb has 21,000 kuna per student. So, I ask you when the request comes to grant additional funds, and these are the budgets of 20 million kunas to find these funds, and precisely for the reason that half of the mining rent is collected in the northwest of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164320	Thank you. The Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164321	Thank you very much, Your Honor, you all know the Ministry of Finance well, and according to the Budget Act, what the state budget in the government proposes. In line with this and those guidelines of economic and fiscal policy, we are setting limits on the consumption of individual ministries, and it is up to them to distribute these funds and things. So, some basic things pay, cold drive, etc. This cannot be said at all, but it is not at all a question at all, but part of it is, of course, in the intelligence of the ministries. The specific theme of the address should be the Ministry of Science and Education, in which way and how, whether the answer not only to this ministry or to any other one we do not have enough resources, my answer we have as many blankets as we have with it can be covered, that is the answer to both this question and the answer to both the salaries and everything else. We are responsible for the money of budget and taxpayers for the reason that we believe that the consumption we have is certain to reflect and define some of the priorities of the government, but at the same time we do not want to re-enter the sphere or the stage when public finances become the problem of the economy as they once were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164322	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164323	Dear Minister, the fact is that in the last two years the government and you have achieved what many have not before and that is, and that we have entered the investment rating. This is where they come in with all kinds of data, and they don't get into the essence of being here, for example. Of the 2.5 million people who have mandatory or supplementary health insurance policies for over 740,000 state budget persons or the Ministry of Finance pays it to HZZO and that it is these over 3 billion kunas, so that all of us together, no matter how much we can say that something didn't really have the best treatment, the best medicines, the last, the last medicines that came out on the world market. So here's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164324	Minister Maric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164325	Thank you very much. Well, this is more than I'd say commentary, and I think these comments serve the honor of not only you but also all the parliamentary representatives who think and talk in this way. So the easiest thing to say is something wrong, identify the problem and break hands, say someone else needs to solve it. In the healthcare system I have just heard the data, these are different data about how many people have left Croatia, the same information needs to be paired up, the MUP and all those who keep that record with, say, HZZD data, how many have been checked out from health insurance and the provision that I just said, Articles 14, 72 and 82 that define who has all the right to health care and how it was said then in 2013 that they will be audited, and never have this been accessed. So these are all the things we need in one I'd say a reasoned, clear and transparent way of discussing and looking for a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164326	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164327	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, good tax policy balance on the income side and new sources of income and sound control of the expenditure side have achieved such fiscal results as we have today. However, I want to say something here that I often repeat when adopting budgets, executions, and these are the two structural problems of the expenditure side of the budget that simply have to be solved, not you, but us in the assembly and others. It's a pay problem. You mentioned one part yourself, the working conditions of some who receive salaries are different from them, and without the new Law on Salaries, we will not get to pay for the work we really pay for, and we will punish the reluctantness, but we will simply have an early bird like we have. And the other thing is HZO. So some thought that the separation of HZZO from the Treasury would solve all the problems, and we have problems today as we are, and this is all together when we add up more than 40 billion costs paid by Croatian taxpayers, and we simply have to work to solve it systematically, and we don't throw ourselves at what's political.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164328	Thank you. Minister Maric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164329	Thank you very much. Well, here, I agree in both parts, as far as wages are concerned, I think we should look at the salaries through pay policy, through a pay strategy to state and public officials. So, I'm going to give you one example a while ago, there were big negative calls, say, to people who work in social care because of an unkind event that happened, and then there was another worse one, where two people died, and then suddenly we opened up the story, so you see how they're doing in difficult conditions, and now we need to do something for them. So, the attitude is ours to go solve things in a systematic way before there's a cause for that. And that's why I just said it. On the one hand, we have made very clear and kept in touch with the unions representing state and public officials, and we are going through the correction of the bases to raise and correct salaries, but we need to open up the topic of supplements, the coefficients of the complexity of the business. And as for health care, it's been spoken many times before, and I just said no former or current finance minister, and I believe neither since it's going to be prone to HZZO.../incomprehensible/... Treasury.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164330	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Sovereigns and Independent Representatives, Croatian counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164331	Honorable Minister, Honorable Vice President and colleagues and colleagues. We're talking budget. However, I have not heard here that much time in your presentation, the respected minister, has devoted himself to demographic policy, or detachment for demographic policy. I think it was both the key backbone and the HDZ election campaign and the demographic policy doesn't even have D today. The separations are modest, they're tough, there's no clear strategy. So I'm gonna say to what your guessed answer has no money. The money was still found when the pani stopped, when it was due to cover the debts of the Oilies. And I'd say that stop is a panic situation as far as demographic policy is concerned. So Croatia just disappears. So we have such a demographic decline that is unremembered in the history of mankind and one of the greatest in the world. And as far as I'm concerned, I don't see a single key measure, we have some cosmetic measures, and even human measures, we see who was before the Minister of Demography, who today, I don't think there's a good will to deal with it. And that's what's key and there's absolutely nothing to do. I repeat, you were here for 15 minutes or as long as you had the right, half an hour to talk, most of the time about demographic measures, the financial measures, for a young Croatian man to decide on reproduction, to have children, to have Croatian families, to have as many children as possible tomorrow. But that's almost not what it was about. Now, another question and another topic that I would like to mention here is the question of a play that is happening in Croatian society the last days, which is a play between the SDP and HDZ, this time is the theme GONG, GONG. Well then suddenly she's a colleague of Suncana Glavak and Prime Minister Plenkovic, they suddenly remembered and saw this, this GONG is an extended SDP arm, as they didn't know it, they didn't know it. In fact, everything that GONG does all the time didn't concern them because they don't have ideology, they don't have a worldview, like some in this House, they're a little left, little right. But when the money was touched, or when the property of Dubravka Shuića was touched, then GONG became the extended hand of the SDP. Now why am I bringing this up here? Because GONG gets out of the state budget money. GONG received here according to their report in 2018 2 million 836 thousand 78 kuna, something about, less than 2 million 2017. The other donors are familiar with you, it's an open society and you know who owns open society. So why is it a play? If the Prime Minister had a problem with GONG, he would have closed that tap a long time ago, he would have said, "e, hello, you're dealing with politics, your lead man, your executive director Dragan Zelic has now moved to SDP, working with them at the club. But that's not in his interest, he was in his interest only a little bit here in the media space fighting between the SDP and HDZ because the Prime Minister is funding through the budget, and we finance it, you, Minister Maric, are funding GONG. Then let the people finance themselves, while you finance them, and let them do what they do because you pay them. I would mention here, however, that the Civil Society Development Foundation is always funding the same associations and some new associations that will work in another part of the political spectrum, because obviously it's a policy that can't get to the pot, can't get away with it, are always the same ones that are spinning. So I'm going to repeat those two thesis that are crucial. One thesis is a demographic that you have hardly talked about here and you should have talked about all your exposure, the whole exposure because demographics are not engaged, demographics are not included in this budget and the demographic situation tells us what the situation in Croatia is. And the second topic is to finance NGOs but politically well-oriented such as GONG, so let the play be over. Andrey Plenkovic, you have the opportunity to finish that story because you're just giving that Gong you're criticizing money. But you won't, and we know why.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164332	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. We move to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, Honored counterpart, Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Bozo Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164333	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, respected representatives of the government and the minister. We have today's report on the implementation of the budget. Only the report is technically properly done as every year. Since we have already entered the month of October, we are also waiting for budgetary processes for the new state budget for 2020, as you have already announced. So we will discuss this report inevitably in that light and context. When the results of the national budget for the past year are considered, one picture is observed which is not particularly light. So at this point, the state is spending a third of GDP. In other words, every third kuna created in Croatia. The revenues of the state budget were slightly more than 129 billion and 395 million kuna, while expenditures amounted to 129 billion and 586 million kuna. So we found ourselves again in the same situation that the state spent more than it incomed and that's the fact. In view of the rise in the revenues of the state budget compared to 2017, it is noted that income from taxes and contributions are higher by € 4.5 billion, provided that 2 billion revenue from income tax transferred to the local self-government unit is added to this, then there is an increase in the revenues of the state budget of €6.5 billion only on the name of taxes and contributions. If we consider that GDP growth in the same period was 16.2 billion kuna, then we come to an account where the central state budget swallowed 40% of the newly created value in Croatia. I hope that absolutely everyone here understands that the state is overly involved in the economy, that it has gotten too deep in the pockets of taxpayers, citizens, and I will say it in a simplified dictionary. The economy grew by a rate of 2.6% and the country's income of 4.5%. As long as these percentages aren't reversed, you can't expect a move forward. And that's why he says this kind of budget execution is just an indication that the state has decided to grab even more into the citizens' pocket, regardless of all rounds of tax discharges. I don't know if it makes any sense to discuss the expenditure side of the budget, but I will remind the respected minister that just as bitterly as he spoke today and explained the projections, that in 2017 he announced surpluses in projections, so we were struck by deficits. Today we could see from his side in a very shy way how they slightly balanced the state budget, almost escaped. Since you are the ones who approve of the Ministry of Finance and the costs of other ministries, I would suggest that you reduce the appetites of other ministers rather than approve them as last year and 20% higher costs in your ministries. Maybe then we wouldn't almost run away, maybe at least we'd be at zero, and that's moving forward. He can turn the Ministry of Finance from hollow to empty as long as changes don't happen and it's serious in other restaurants there won't be any luck for anyone. So we know for ourselves, and countless times already it's been said about a massive state apparatus that doesn't benefit citizens, nothing happens, no matter how much it's talked about, even the more people are employed. More employees for fewer people, for fewer residents in the Republic of Croatia than it was in 2013, and in all of this, taxpayers, we all pay more money to maintain that apparatus. Well, if it were efficient, he wouldn't regret it, but it's not effective, and we pay it more expensive year after year for fewer people in Croatia. There are over 230 thousand employees in state and public service, and we don't count an army here and we see that it's unconstitutional, it's unsustainable, it's growing. There is no movement or pension insurance, aware that the system we have generates an annual minus 16.5 billion kuna. That amount of what we can see will go beyond 20 billion kuna in a few years. Will anyone ever wonder what basically doesn't work, what needs to be changed so that such things don't happen? Otherwise, speaking of this subject, I have to say that this was an extraordinary representation of the government's success, and by that principle, people don't understand anything anyway, so we're going to present as a solution something that is common, but in a dramatic, serious tone, therefore, pensions will be paid. It's like I say, people don't worry, Sava's gonna run tomorrow. Who's even asking if Sava's going to run? Who cares if Sava's going to run? Should you worry about whether pensions will be paid or if it is an announcement that we really need to worry because there may be no money, because there may be a new recession? I don't know, but an interesting approach. From the state budget, we allocate more than $12.5 billion for the health system, if we count the expenditures of HZZO 25 billion, we have a system that costs 37.5 billion kuna with which no one is satisfied, no employees, no users. Unfortunately, it is not the only sector where public money is not managed properly, but obviously we have not reached that level of social consciousness to be our main and impactive topic. And a special part of the analysis of this report I want to focus on what is not directly seen in the revenues and expenditures of the state budget, and this is an all-present issue of public debt. The finance ministry has devoted a certain effort to reduce public debt and refinance it at lower interest rates. I admit, in the grayness of this government's work, one quite regular, the normal activity of each finance minister is seen as something specific, just shouldn't be like that because Croatia is still in charge of the country. If the figures presented in this report are to be trusted, the public debt amounted to nearly 285 billion kuna in late 2018. Also, we could hear yesterday in the National Bank report, it may be a little bigger, so they mention 3.9 billion euros, there's a story that might be because of a change in methodology that changes every 5 years, but on the side and that amount, on the floor of gossip, you'll agree that 285 billion kuna is not a small thing for our economy and that, not us, but our children will return. What's the worst part of the whole public debt story is that it's growing. I would really like to finally, at least from time to time, be honest with the people of Croatia, so sometimes you don't speak in percentages because you don't call the percentages relatively numbers, say in absolute amounts, share of public debt in GDP falls, and we're lucky that's true and that's true, but you need to present an absolute amount from time to time. We live on debt, what we spend, we're still not ready to finance our own money, and that's why our deficit is happening. And that wouldn't be a problem to me, I don't think it would be a problem for anyone in Croatia to invest in something that will bring added value, not to invest in those failed projects, not to invest in thousands and thousands of new employees in the state and public sector in something that's no use. And I see we're going to have to, for that kind of approach, wait for the new government. The worrying information in this report is that budget users have 11.4 billion kunas of outstanding claims. That's almost a tenth if I'm not mistaken for total income. Well, we can rightly ask for answers, what's the problem, who's not paying? Someone would say, there's a system problem. Is your syntagma ringing? You know, you have a system problem. On the other hand, as far as we can see, the state of Croatia is very generous in guarantees. To encourage the borrowing of economic operators to activities that are not always profitable. In the last year alone, such guarantees were issued at 15.8 billion kuna. The total amount of guarantees is 38 billion kuna, and this year we were able to experience what it means to activate guarantees in such amounts. I can only conclude that we obviously have a guarantee problem. In whom they are approved, which is why he approves them and how they end the guarantees and cannot be kidnapped that sometimes the reasons for granting these guarantees are not for economic reasons but, unfortunately, for political everyday life and political reasons. And then all government bonds pay the same billion-dollar guarantees. I just want to do it again in the end. 129 billion and 395 million kuna were available to the Croatian government last year. How was the money spent? Did the government spend it the best way possible? The Prime Minister, the respected minister who's here with us, is talking about tax discharges. I will say that it is insufficient, unambitious, the management costs of Croatia are too high, burdened both workers and entrepreneurs, drive people abroad and do not bring the necessary growth of the economy. And those are the facts. We therefore advocate in the Bridge that tax redundancies, when, if you already want to move in that direction without making makeup, should be directed in a way that is real support for demographic revitalisation through real support to families, to the equal value of each child, give people fixed amounts. Don't tell them about tax breaks because their salaries are so low, I can't even use that tax relief. It's a dead letter to them on paper. And you should also know that the literal works net 2,3 thousand kuna per month, which is why they go to Croatia, if you want, you can stop that trend. We want the changes to also represent the true discharge of entrepreneurs, so that you can do so. Also, tax redundancies are in the direction of investing in education, research, development. So it's crazy that you have a situation where an entrepreneur wants to donate, donate to institutions educational money, and you, if he crosses a certain amount, deepen him with a tax. And he's doing you a favor, he's doing what the state should invest, invest in education, research and development, and you're still cutting him off with taxes. Until we see serious indications that the government really wants to deal with this kind of problem, not that it's trying to balance something, I realize that your big problem is to balance yourself with such a complex majority where every time you show up in this House, that coalition is more expensive to you, all of your problems I understand, but until you decide to really solve problems, the Bridge won't support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164334	I thank my colleague Petrov for this debate. Before continuing, I welcome the second group of students and students of the Commercial and Trade School from Split and their professors and professors. Welcome and comfortable stay at HS. ... Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, esteemed colleague Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164335	Thank you, well-respected vice president of HS, respected ministers of respected colleagues and colleagues, respected to the public. So, despite everything that many advocate drama and disaster throughout this system, I must once again point out that in the past three years all the results that have been achieved in this government's work thanks to the budget that is both sustainable and realistic, our country's rating has reached an investment rating as early as it has not had over a decade. So everything that seems to be, it seems in the interest of us to really spend as much as we have, and to manage these resources fairly rationally. This positive movement began in 2015 after a six-year recession that was very long for us. GDP grew by 2.6% in 2018 and according to the data we have seen and we can see that the gross investment impulse in fixed capital grew by 4%, that the consumption of the country's household was growing, exports of 2.8%, but also imports that are in one way bothering us, and inflation was about 1.5%. But what we need to point out is that the polling rate of unemployment that was only 8.4%, which is 2.8% lower than 2017. When we compare it to previous periods, then you see what the shift is where it was double. In the total revenues we have already said 129.4 billion kuna were achieved and they are higher by 5.5% compared to 2017. What are they primarily made up of? It consists of the tax revenues that are the largest income item and that is over 78 billion kuna, and in these tax revenues it is significant to note that the profit tax has increased 2.7% and is 8.5 billion, VAT 51.6 billion, excise tax 15.9 contributes to over 24 nearly 25 billion, aid revenues of 10.7 billion. When compared and faced with expenditure, then we see that on the spending side the most significant expenditures were the employees of 28 billion kuna, material over 13, financial 9.2, subsidies over 6.6 billion. Here you would particularly refer to when colleagues discuss how much the expenditure of the budget has increased then they do not take into account exactly what is happening on this item of expenditure that we have for subsidies. So what was allowed to return through subsidies was the economy, whether it was the farmers, that was exactly the 6.6 billion. Of which, only agriculture on subsidies in agriculture went 3.8 billion. So the state did not spend it on its own but rather on those who need to encourage that agriculture that must create preconditions and better and greater value than what has been introduced. From this, it should be said that out of 3.8 billion subsidies are over 2.5 billion European money, so through direct payments and through other support. So when we talk about this spending side and how this country, how we spend irrationally, is not smart then it must be said that it is also contained in this part. When we talk about other expenditures, it is very important to say how well it is shown in the implementation of the state budget, how much it is spent for the remuneration of citizens and households, and those fees include pensions. It is unquestionable that they must be, but we must also say that they are only pensions of more than 39 billion kuna. So all together, we have to take care of how and how to raise money so that we can pay off pensions and pension incomes. In addition, we also have other social care expenditures in that group of expenditures, on various fees. So when you look at the fact that social care benefits have just been paid for help and care, maternity permits and equipment for a newborn child that there has been an increase in expenditure in all these segments, then we can't say that it's being spent in such a way that it's not thinking about citizens but that it's exactly how each group of citizens takes care of measures and how it takes care of both demographics and those who need help and it needs different groups of our population. When we talk about not taking enough care of employers, so here if you read carefully then you could see that 15.4 million kunas were returned to employers because of the application of the rules relating to the return of income contributions, which in fact stimulates that certain groups of people or groups of citizens are employed. In this period, we must also stress that public debt has been reduced by 9 percentage points in the last few years of 2015 and is now 74.6% of GDP or 284.7 billion kuna. In doing so, we must not forget that a total of the guaranteed debt has also entered the 4.4 billion kuna of the group, so all that was found according to the guarantees issued and which this government had to pay in order to responsibly operate and carry out contractual obligations. It is very important to say that, just as during this period for 2018, all fiscal rules relating to both public debt and the structural balance rule and the expenditure rule are also respected, and we must say that all rules are respected and that this is how they actually come from exactly the country's rating that we have. In the six-month period, we also see that trends are continued, that, in this period, very much care is being taken into account about the implementation, both on the income and on the expenditure side, and the trends are positive, and what has been done in this period has been just as much about the realisation and withdrawal of funds from EU funds that are raising our scale and thus actually investing in the capital of the state is also increased, and it also encourages certain movements and in terms of employment, so what some say is that we have bigger expenditures for employees, and so one part of the income relating to the part of which the persons working on these projects are paid is from these European funds. So we can't, if we compare that now over 10 billion kunas were withdrawn in the last year, then we can't say that significant shifts didn't happen. All this is said to be and how it takes care that as much as we earn, we spend as much. The special subject and special attention are always challenging and everything that happens in health care, in education and in all other segments that interest us, but it is very important to understand, and that is what many colleagues do not want to understand from the Treasury, so all the revenues related to health care have been excluded, and this is from the contribution of nearly 19 billion kuna, that more than 3 billion kunas have been participated from the state budget so far for all those who have had to be paid additional health insurance because, under certain conditions and by the provisions of the law, they have the right to a full, high-quality and comprehensive treatment with a high standard, and there are some 2 billion additional revenues from other sources. So it's over 25 almost 26 billion kunas that are not in the state budget, which meet the needs of health care, and that's all that's still going from the state budget, which is over 12 billion kuna. So it's very much, but it's been systematically since the beginning, that segment per segment is being monitored, that they're being placed in categories and ratios and in terms of how much we really have and we can, but that we all have to take care of it together and admit that we have huge rights, but that we have to have, in parallel, obligations and respect those obligations that we have, which, which were law, have been prescribed. Therefore, the HDZ Club fully accepts and supports both the annual budget implementation report and the mid-term for 2019. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164336	Thank you. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Boris Lalovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164337	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers with Associates, here we will say on behalf of the SDP Club about the implementation of the State Budget for 2018. So, during 2018, positive developments were continued on the domestic economy that started in 2015. Thus, the real growth of gross domestic product in 2018 is 2.6%, but what is certainly worrying is the slowdown of this economic growth, which was 3.5% in 2016 and 2017. 2.9%, 2018. 2.6%. So when we talk about gross domestic product in current prices, it amounts to about 382 billion kunas to get some kind of physical volume as much as that, how much money it is. What generates, generates GDP and what encourages it most in the Republic of Croatia are several sectors, it is primarily trade, trade for a little more than 5 years in a row records growth, it was 3.8% in 2018, tourism means the number of overnight stays in tourism is growing at 4% and recovery of construction activity of 4.9%, which is highly related to the overall economy, but construction is particularly important in the gross domestic product. These international reserves amounted to around EUR 17 billion, which is in the overall picture of external trade imbalances, I think is positive, these were some of the IMF's objections and I know there were stories about that conversion, if you make a conversion will affect international reserves, just so you know, in 2015, they amounted to around EUR 13.5 billion, and according to the latest data, about EUR 21 billion. I think it is also positive for investment and international investment in Croatia. What the Prime Minister said was a reassiction or new methodology related to foreign debt, which according to the old methodology is about 75.5% or about EUR 38.8 billion, but according to the new methodology where these trade loans are included and now up to 6 months, it means up to 6 months...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164338	I apologize for interrupting your presentation only to welcome our guests, representatives of the Croatian National Council of Montenegro who are visiting the Republic of Montenegro today with Mr. Adrian Vukasnović, president of the Croatian Civil Initiative and representative of the Croats in the Parliament of Montenegro. Welcome and enjoy your stay at the Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much, and once again, there you go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164339	Thank you very much. The CNB also carried out a review of tourism revenues in the RS balance of payments because it applies a more improved method based on a combination of physical indicators and indicators of the average consumption of foreign tourists, which is common in the EU practice, the revised series reduces revenues from tourism, from half a billion to a billion points, up to EUR 1.1 billion, which is unfavourably affecting the balance of the current balance of payments account. So they revised that entire time series from 2003 to 2018. The negative balance of payments will also be affected by the estimated value of imports of used cars. I am a little surprised by this fact that EUR 318 million of imports of used cars were in 2018, which shows what is very serious data regardless of this and some reduced excise duty, in that part that more tax is actually the ones that are more polluting is happening to us the very powerful imports of cars of EUR 318 million, which negatively affects our balance of payments itself and now it has become and the CNB has started to record this in balance sheet payments, and what is affecting positive as the balance of payments, but certainly when we look at it we can't look at it as a change that it's a positive money that our emigrants send through labour lines or informal cash from abroad. So far, most of what has gone over the account has been recorded, according to new estimates, is believed to be about 40% of the money that comes from abroad to Croatia that was cash and now the CNB has audited and actually the workers' records that affect us positively on the balance sheet, but it is negative actually because our people there earn money is over a billion and 170 million euros, which is a very, very high amount. What worries about macroeconomic data, so these were positive indicators that affect this and drive this economic growth, apart from what has slowed GDP for the last 3 years, that is, the minister himself said, increasing imports at twice the rate of exports because we simply have such an economy that has been set up for about 20 years, and I believe that the next 10 to 15 years of Croatia's stronger integration into the European market only after 10 years, we can change our economic structure, this one to be oriented, but simply not just in the last 20 years I would say maybe over the next 70 years, we have a very import component and in the previous systems, so that it remains today and we can't unfortunately solve it so quickly. And that's something negative and these all the positive effects that we're looking at on the other side of the GDP this importing it to you, importing it to you on the other side. Also, what is worrying is the decline in industrial production of 1% in 2018, which after 5 years is the first fall in 2018 and what the Prime Minister said is not only a problem in shipbuilding but is the problem of overall industrial production. It seems to me this year that something is slightly recovering, but industrial production, regardless of that integration, has not shown Croatia, has not made the contribution we expect especially in this part when we speak, if we are also linking industrial production to the withdrawal of EU funds. And that I think is something that we would certainly be worried about in the future, I think it would be much better indicators and economies if these funds that we are using from the EU funds, and that was my own opening question, were much more integrated into industrial production in the production itself in Croatia, not that we use these funds from the EU funds mostly on import goods. And that is the negative effect as much on the one hand as we positively assess the greater withdrawal of EU funds, but the impact on the economy is unfortunately negative. Because you can see that the economy has slowed down over the last 3 years, the growth of EU funds is strong, I'm here somewhere with 4 billion, 10 billion last year, this year it's certainly going to be over 15 billion, 2 billion euros, and our economy hasn't withdrawn so much, that they've withdrawn the EU funds, and especially when we're tied to industrial production. I think that it is certain that the government with its policies in the coming periods should certainly think about how to encourage industrial production and link this with these EU funds not to give us in Croatia and the work of foreign workers who have been paid out of it and then bring us and the machines that do this bring all import components into the installation of a particular product, and that is certainly what it is, I think that the real impact of EU funds, in the first years we have been very frustrated, the more money, the more money we have, the more money we can withdraw so that we can take advantage of that amount, but we can now see that this amount that we're pulling from the EU even has a negative impact on the economy, I won't say negatively impact on the economy, but on the other side that the import component is pushing it and we don't have in this way stronger integration of the Croatian economy into the European economy, that money is used through the production industry through certain products and thus have a double effect. What I would certainly point out here is that monetary institutions principally banks to domestic sectors other than the state on the basis of transactions. They grew 4.4% in 2018, which is an acceleration compared to the previous year. So banks gave 4.4% more credit to both businesses and citizens. What is certainly worrying here is that this growth in the population is 1.9%, however, according to the report, and here the Ministry of Finance stated that the population growth is 6.2%. 6.2% of population population growth, 1.9 of these companies, and our economy is 2.6 means 3 times almost the population's faster spending goes into them, borrowing than our economy is growing. That's what we've been warning all along, and especially when we're looking at that part of the balance of non-intentional cash loans that grew by a record 5 billion kuna in 2018. So 5 billion kunas have increased your balance of cash non-intentional loans they have reached about 48 and then 48 are already over 51 billion kuna, and when I tell you that the housing balance has only increased 1.2 billion kuna. So 5 times faster is the growth of cash non-intentional loans than housing loans, and that's what I've repeatedly said is that there's a role not the Ministry of Finance, not governments, because they don't have the instruments to suppress it, but unfortunately some future government will come back to solving the debt problem of citizens. Just as it came to the government of Zoran Milanovic concerning the franc, just as this government also tried to settle citizens' debts, and it is not the government's policies in the part but the CNB's sole responsibility and the regulation of such forms of credit. We're warning again, so I'm saying it has nothing to do with the government, but ultimately when these debts come to charges or citizens in trouble, then the citizens address the government to solve these problems and have a very difficult time finding certain instruments. However, 5 times the growth of loans cash non-intentional loans than residential loans, and that is what encourages this consumption, I agree with one part of the consumption is driven by personal consumption, the most personal spending through salary increases, through this part of tax discharges, but what is worrying that much of the consumption goes through these non-intentional loans or the amount is an alarming 5 billion kuna this year is an additional 3.7 billion of this 3.7 billion kuna, which is over a billion euro in 2 years the citizens created in consumption, but through their responsibilities. So this economic growth comes under extremely favourable macroeconomic conditions, debt on the financial market never more favourable, interest is even negative, I'm going to say that later on about the part itself, so maybe if the minister sees with his colleagues in the tax administration, there's a lot of opening up the lower interest issue of 2%. I think maybe, you've probably already discussed it in the ministry because there's a certain limit for you now, where you're regulated by income tax, where you can't pay less than 2% because then it's treated like income in nature, I think it's certainly the minister and his team will consider it, because interest has the possibility that citizens will be owed less than 2%, that they will go into amending the law, and I think it's absorbing the current situation on the financial market that that part and the citizens are refinanced their debts on lower interest just as it is doing, just as the state is doing right now. What I said was interesting is that in 2018 it means the withdrawal of EU funds is somewhere around 10 billion kuna, it has no impact on the budget, you have income and expenditure part, but it is seen in 2019 that this amount is even greater because we are approaching this final period and the minister himself was talking about a new multi-annual framework so that, at the end of 2020, we will see in the 21st, how much the overall impact was on the economy, but I say, the budget itself has no such impact, it is neutral, however, it has for the overall multiplier in the economy. All these positive conditions certainly reflected the positive implementation of the state budget, meaning the surplus of 0.5% of GDP, and when these sizes adapt to the ESA methodology, this amount is also positive, around 0.2% and at the same time the share of public debt has fallen to a level of 74% in absolute terms is about 285 billion kuna, and that is what has repeatedly been pointed out here that a positive trend of their reduction is important since we have also applied for entry into the EU area, or monetary union to be met in that part and that of the criteria. So when we're talking about income, $129.4 billion, I'm kind of dividing those revenues, kind of 4 are the main characteristics of all these revenues, that's the VAT that's somewhere at 51.6 billion kuna, which is 4 billion kuna more VAT in 2018 than in 2017, so the VAT is 51.6 billion kuna, the other most significant revenues are actually contributions from pension and employment were then together under contributions around 25 billion kuna, so 24.9, the third is your excise fees of 15.9 about 8.6 are excise duties on oil derivatives, and the rest are tobacco, and the rest are related to income on profit tax. I see I'm getting a little close to this, so I'll probably end up through an individual discussion then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164340	Thank you very much, the next club of MPs is that GLAS on behalf of which will speak respected representative Anka Mrak-Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164341	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of HS, distinguished ministers with an associate, here is the debate on the implementation of last year's budget and the first six months. This year. As far as the budget is concerned, the budget is essentially a political document. It is a document that speaks of what a government's work programme is, what the government plans to do, how it plans to do, which is at all the direction of the development of a particular state, and when we talk about the implementation of the budget, then it is, of course, read in figures, whether it is actually done or not. I must admit that I really appreciate the fact that Minister Maric is, whether the budget is, whether it is the implementation of the budget, whether it is the set of the law and whatever it may call them, he is always there with us, he is not only defending what he is saying to the MPs, but rather very patiently all day he listens to our remarks, some time of course, perhaps with a little bit less or a little more patience, but he is there, which is not common for some other ministers. When it comes to budget implementation, this budget, the whole document is made very correct, the figures show the situation in which we are and we are discussing budget implementation, then we are actually much more discussing some other resolutions and some other topics than the Ministry of Finance itself, because the Ministry of Finance is someone who technically handles what the entire government policy is and what is the policy of certain ministries and it should simply be looked at and thought in this context. This implementation of the budget is indeed in a good environment which is also connected to Croatia. What this implementation of the budget points to is a few things. The minister here talked all the time about trends and these are trends that everyone has to listen to. From the Prime Minister himself to certain resolution ministries. I'm going to refer here to three ministries or three topics because it shows exactly what actually happened and how it happened. The first thing is the Department of Defense, which, when a half a billion-billion-dollar budget is implemented, we immediately know why it is. There was no plan for the purchase of planes, there was nothing from the purchase of planes, and that's the half-billion that the deviation is related to the implementation of the budget, and it's clear exactly why it happened and why it happened. The second ministry is the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which also has derogations, but why? Because they have not withdrawn the EU-related funds. I'm one of those MPs, and I'm not going to give up until the end of this term that talks about climate change from this booth. Not about climate change in terms of what they are, that they are a fact but countries that want to recognise their progress, which want to see what that state will be, not more in 2030, because it is there but in 2050, now, through their budgets, provide the means to actually adapt to climate change. There are 3 very simple things Croatia could do at this time. One important investment in railway lines, therefore, is the withdrawal of funds related to the construction of railway lines, investment in fast trains for a simple reason, which today you travel from Rijeka to Zagreb for 4 hours, and let's say, if you were to travel from Zagreb to Vienna or from Zagreb to Milan, 2, 2 and half hours, then absolute and some economic trends would be different because someone might work in Croatia and live in Vienna or vice versa. And there's the role of the railroad and something to read from the budget. Equally related to the budget, new opportunities for economic development should also be read. Here's what you're referring to, and that's to see that we have a GDP decline with the growth of the withdrawal of funds from the EU, we have a situation where you see that the increased story is related to trade, tourism and construction. When it comes to construction, I kind of imagine I know something about it, and we have a drop in industrial production. So what was to be read about the EU funds that we withdrew, related to context and climate change and all that, increased energy efficiency, I speak primarily in construction, but through the development of the construction industry. So we had a construction material industry that was good, which was correct, absolutely knew what it was about, now that you're withdrawing EU funds from funds, workers who work are no longer ours but some others, but also the material that is being built on do not build on material produced in Croatia but are produced in some of the neighbouring countries because at one point it was that a styrofoam on the Croatian market which is one very simple material does not have. So it's a vicious circle for you. Through the implementation of the budget you actually have to read that what needs to be done, this increase in domestic industrial production should be done and if your construction is something that when you withdraw funds from the EU, you withdraw a lot of funds to invest in construction, then you must withdraw and invest in the construction industry. One of the models when I talk about climate change would be that all the material that is related to the destruction of former buildings or everything else to be recycled and refurbished and thus read in another context. Unfortunately, we see that some other countries are working, we see that some other countries are taking care of it, we don't take care of it. And that's what this government won't see with all that, but of course, in two, three or four years, the consequences will be seen and we can read it very simply and clearly from the implementation of this budget. So, withdrawing the funds that are from the EU we return them to some other countries, and we should use them absolutely for ourselves. I have to say and there can be a very simple example of what happened the moment we decided to use renewable energy sources and work wind power plants, all related to wind power plants came from some other countries, not to say from Germany. In the end, the foundations were no longer concrete here, but the assembly foundations came from the construction of the wind power plant and perhaps only from the domestic market were involved by a man or two. If we've been through this before, if we've already seen it's not good, then we should also read it now and take care of it because without one development of the economy, all sorts of artificial things and trends show that none of it will be. I have to say something about education, and this year we have about 42,000 places at universities, which is, of course, from the education portfolio, what the minister gets, or what the service gets, you send away, but the remaining unlisted 11251 place remains empty. So the budget will go to an 11.251 place where no one has to go, not because they didn't sign in or someone wanted to sign in, so they couldn't, because they just didn't. This year, 30,146 children graduated, a graduation to be absolutely clear, a high school graduated from 39,626 children's students, and we have 42,000 places in colleges, so all of them decided to go to college would still be there. But the budget makes those places that are in college pay. Therefore, the minister will pay what the ministry's resolute ministry says it should. But when we talk about budgeting, we need to talk about it, and this, for example, for 2015, when everything started together, it was better for 36,786 kids to graduate, there were 35,189 places in college. Now four years after we have about 42,000, I still don't have the exact number, and we have 30,146 kids who graduated and who gained the conditions to enroll in those colleges. So there's an alarming situation. The alarm situation is in the resolution ministry, but as well as the consequences then we definitely see it in the budget implementation. When it comes to tourism, then this is a country that reads its development on tourism. I, many years ago, don't even dare say how old it was, listened to the lecture of a respected economist who then talked about tourism and said on a single bed that we have in tourism we need to develop some industries. We need to develop wood industries, we need to develop I don't know textile industries, then, of course, the conditions were different than today, we now have one situation that is alarming again, and we don't want to talk about it, but we're actually kind of lurking. We have an awful lot of beds that are left unfulfilled in so-called. accommodation that is not the classic private accommodation but is the accommodation in the family where you pay for the bed and there was a great debate on how much individual units of local self-government will pay. In Zagreb, at the end of this opportunity up to 1,500 kuna, it is worth 750 kuna a year, so we all know what trends are like. What those of you who are doing this are showing is that it's all invested in hotels, then we'd have, we're talking about 1,000 new little hotels and incomes significantly higher. But we have what we have, otherwise I really represent the thesis that the state should give direction, the state should give frameworks, and we need to develop private investments, and we really need to develop a real possibility that people are investing in different activities, and that's where they always show up when they decide on some dragon measures, then income is much smaller than when they decide to liberalize a little bit, then it's easier and more common for everyone to really be if by the book because they sleep peacefully, but the state there are a lot more income and these are the facts that we always have, and these are some legality that we have. I will look towards the end somehow, both political and political influence. We have the subject of shipbuilding, and among other things in the report, it is said that due to the resolution of the guarantees that were for the Oily so that the figures would be significantly better. But let's just say a few things honestly. The government headed by HDZ and its partners has clearly decided that if someone needs to be saved, it should be May 3rd without being an Oilman for a very prosaic reason. For the reason that at the time the HDZ conquered Croatia's territory in terms of local elections, it was obviously decided to head towards the Primorje-Gorski County, the city of Rijeka and its energy, the effort to invest in May 3rd and the assessment was that according to Istria and IDS it should not go but rather to go towards the Primorje-Gorski County, there I see a mayor from the area and the county and the city of Rijeka is already surrounded, so it is expected to be a very powerful attack in the local elections at that place so that he decided to save the 3rd of May and the Uljannik, but I will not understand one thing and when someone explains why it is so, I will understand everything. That famous ship Jaruzar, the one who was an investor, took advantage of his opportunity and got his guarantees, or he got the money. That ship is a specific ship. That ship can't be bought by anyone. It is 80% complete, it will at some point go to auction or as it is and this investor who has succeeded in withdrawing or obtaining guarantees will for much less money than he managed to withdraw on the auction market to buy that same boat for the simple reason it will be, therefore, very purposeful is, you do not now in the world 100 companies dealing with it, you have very specific some companies and someone let me explain to me why it was not an interest to finish this ship but was interested in giving money to someone in the future to buy that same boat. But that says, that's the part as I started, every budget talks about government policy, about government policy, when we talk about execution, then we have to talk about trends, the minister mentioned trends several times, and I'm going to mention them the same thing, and in the last seconds I'm going to say, if the trends in Europe are that we have The crawling recession that's at our door, right now, we need to prepare ourselves for the same. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164342	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS will speak the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164343	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, I think the minister had a very good opening statement that he apostropheeded everything and I wouldn't want to repeat myself, just maybe some other things to further underline. When we speak from 2018 and when we look at trends, it means in the last three fiscal years, surely we have reason to be optimistic, we have reason to have these good news that we have here and presented, and in the extreme line that our citizens feel in one way or another, whether through tax reform, whether through the very system of economy, growth, what we are doing... tax policies and raising total economic... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the country, it's actually the main goal of our citizens feeling on their backs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This must be every objective of the tax policy, that those stakeholders, the main stakeholders of the tax policy, and these are the businessmen, so as an economy and citizens, as end-users, each tax policy must feel it on its back. Of course, then it has to do with the fissure of the main state to charge the budget itself. What's good, which I've already shown is that when we talk about citizens here for 2018 the movement of the labour market speaks about increasing the number of employees, so almost 2%. What is good is that despite the year-to-year tax reforms, it is very good that every tax reform goes in favour of the economy and citizens, so with a reduction, not a burden, it also brings higher tax revenues. So, it might seem like a little oxymoron to someone, but either that or, as a rule, economic indicators tell us that, when you relieve citizens, disbursement economies, you leave more money, you increase consumption, and we know that our GDP is, and that our tax revenues are much more or less related to consumption. So you don't have to be some big economic expert that a smaller percentage is much better than a higher percentage than a smaller one. Thus, in a layman's dictionary, a lower tax burden leads to greater money collapse in the economy, and thus that smaller percentage already comes to a higher level. Here we come to concrete figures as well as income, tax revenues, where they are, say, 60% of tax returns, so 78 billion, even when we look at contributions, that's another 20%, so 80% of the total revenues of state budgets are contributions and tax, and I think that when we look at this year's cut in taxes on fresh food, when we say fresh food, so we think of the one that wasn't frozen, so it didn't fit the import lobby as we've had many times heard in this assembly, that by reducing VAT, specifically meat, we've enjoyed the import lobby, no, it was just fresh or chilled meat in the window, so not this imported frozen. I don't suppose anyone imports fresh meat just because of their properties and sanitary conditions. So both fruits and vegetables and eggs brought in if nothing else might have been expected to cut the price, but at least that's where we jumped up the price, even going below inflation levels, so even what's normal growth, left more resources in the end line to those who didn't drop prices and pay their employees, to raise these salaries, and thus again contribute to the growth of all these economic indicators. Yeah, that's a good thing, I'd like it to reflect more on the price itself and it went even further in the second step at 5% to the lowest, and I hope there's room for still not to be discouraged because these all-pausal provisions where we're saying that it's usually been something that we've done even more competitive domestic production because we're talking about fresh meat, eggs, milk, hence some vegetables and fruit products, let's have an opportunity to import some, but something that can certainly make domestic production more competitive. And that's why he would appeal to further thinking about going one more step further as far as these basic food products are concerned to reduce it to the lowest rate of 5%. Why? So only when we look at and what was fundamentally why we suggested it, and I personally, a year and a half ago, the minister to this reduction, when we look at prices compared with the EU, the prices of food products in the West are nothing more, but they may be even lower than we are, and the standard is incomparably higher. We must enable all our citizens, especially those who can no longer free from tax burdens, who do not belong to any of those tax classes to pay any tax that we can charge them to get their money more and by increasing their standard. It is a smart way of working how we can come out in favour of citizens who are the goal, at first I have already said, of these macroeconomic policies. What's good, as I also said, is the balance of the therefore balanced budget when we talk about the income and distribution side, we're talking about both the surplus and everything that has led to one stability and opportunity and structural change and all these tax redundancies. And what I mentioned in the replica, so it's good that as economic trends move, let's not act like drunken billionaires, so now we have more money, so let's give it all to everyone. Such a way of thinking that some might want and suggest is certainly neither sustainable in the long term nor in the short term, as much as it would bring us back to the bewitched circle of borrowing and spending more than there is. And that's why it's one of the best indicators that only borrowing the country is much more favourable, we came to an investment rating and thus opened the door to the economy to breathe and enter foreign capital. Of course, they have a great deal and can say no to a small role and European money and resources that certainly grow from year to year and we see reports that are absolutely important factor and economic development, especially as far as local self-government units are concerned. What he would say about 2018 certainly also mentioned profit tax as another eclectic example where something was shrinking, and there was an increase from 20 to 18 and 12% for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, as a rule 85% as the minister told you and I think that 12% will now expand that this is a good direction to gradually work, not to look at some... but to the expected projections going. And when we look at 2019, there's a little bit of data that may not be the happiest, especially when we're looking at the export of goods. So in the first quarter there would be 8.9%, and in the second 1.1%, the total of 5.1 is not enough, and the imports are more or less standard around here, that's the minister and explained about the projects themselves. And when someone here mentioned shipbuilding as a Croatian product, yes, but unfortunately they don't know how much material to make a boat, I believe 90% somewhere we import from steel to all other materials that are essential to heavy shipbuilding that I think we really need to leave and turn to one where we can make more money on added value, not on the raw materials that we don't even have. So we can't exactly say that the ship is a Croatian export product if we import 80, 90% of the material itself to make it. So we do practically... work with these loans, or guarantees, that's how it turned out. So the total revenues of the state budget in the first term are 65.1 billion, which is 47.8% of the annual plan, and we all know that our second quarter, or second term, is much better given the season is extremely good. Of course, it shows that... tax revenues are higher and still going into the interest of having space to go out to citizens with a new tax reform and I think that absolutely what we need to talk about in this segment in the announced tax reforms and in some other segments where we have forgotten some old relics of tax regulations and systems like, say, especially to the economy, the use of private vehicles for official purposes where we today have a maximum of 2 kuna per mile today as it was 15 years ago, and we all know what standards and prices are now and which were 15 years ago from the very obvious fuel price, and so on. So these are some things that we certainly need to think proactively and not talk about and about these flat-rate crafts, and I am glad that the minister will not go hard towards them if de facto they, and I can't say that they're cheating on the state, they knowingly give up all the rights and laws on work, annual sick leave, rewards, free days all that protects you the Labour Act and enters the uncertain labour market where you are today, tomorrow you're not, and no one can say you see anymore of cooperation there's no severance, there's no respect for any of the terms of the cancellation except that contract that you contract between two legal persons. So that uncertainty they consciously choose and have no one to cry to when they come tomorrow I'll retire and say I was paying minimum minimum or when they come and say someone broke up with me. They knowingly choose it themselves and it is their right, in return they choose whether to pay themselves 20,000 gross amounts a employer would pay because I will pay 1,200 kuna tax or 12,000 kuna tax, especially when we look at it. It's their choice and that's how it's supposed to be and that's how it's supposed to stay. That's why I can't agree that there's someone cheating on the state, there may be someone who can cheat on himself or live in some illusion, but de facto they're not exactly about money equivalents that they might get something more there, but it's not like they're in the same position as the other workers, especially as they are about labour rights. And that has the most to do with the IT industry and the IT sector where we certainly lack a lot of labour and we need to keep them as much as possible here. And that's what's good and that's where it's good that we've raised that threshold and there if we need some corrections they have to be minimal and certainly don't go at all in accordance with those some bombistic announcements as they say. Also the same thing where there are announcements that the catering services of food will be dropped on the interdepartment. We have a real problem with foreign guests today, where, for example, in one Sweden, they end all the traffic in cash by 2021, so all the financial traffic will take place through unconnected payment, so the cards and, of course, contained in that traffic are so-called. tips or rewards for service. Unfortunately, when you leave a tip in the money, it's all yours, when you want to pay it in relation to the percentage or the absolute amount of the card, then the state treats it as a second income, or as a basic income, it collects contributions on both pension and health and all taxes. Of course, here I think that we need to find some ratio and lead to a certain threshold in relation to the bill relative to the monthly amount to prevent abuse as much as possible from treating such tips through and connecting each of these tips to a fiscal account and putting it in some percentage ratio up to 10% in order to recognise the non-taxable, all behind comes into scissors. And in this way to allow our and our catering workers where I mean it, I can't tell a public secret of course that when you come to work, whether you're a waiter or anyone in that tertiary sector, you always agree on how to split those tips, whether they're all equal or equal. So that's not a small amount, people just say the examples on the minor cruises are living off of it, and that's their entire profit, so they don't need immunity either. These are some of the directions that I hope the Proposer, or here now the rapporteur accepts in the next tax changes that I think are smart, that work systematically, aimly, and that this should be continued. Do not succumb to the pressures, I am glad that for the first time in general it is a uniform cost primary when we look at the budget and that the deficit we have is below 200 million kuna which is more or less zero so that it should not be a state that can not make money. It is not the goal of the state to make money but to use smartly what it has and to foster growth and economic activities and the standards of its citizens. It's not the goal of the state being in plus, it's the same thing we need to know, but it's not the state's drunken billionaire that if he has the money to split around with his hand and hat without worrying about what's going to happen tomorrow and what's the effect of it. And we also have to be aware of that so that all the interventions that the state has and unfortunately these guarantees that are not the problem of this administration but of the administration that was irresponsiblely signing contracts, knowing perhaps in the beginning to work with a loss, so they were probably more favourable and there should be some kind of responsibility. And it was up to us whether we want shipbuilding or not, I think it's a strategic branch, but to go back to it under those conditions, not only do we build other people's import materials, but we actually make added value. The HNS Club will, of course, support this and in the hope that our proposals that we have communicated so far as further tax discharges are concerned will be accepted and I think we have room for us to be even more quality in the 2019 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164344	Thank you. The next club of representatives is that of HSU independent representatives and the Power, and time will be shared by respected representatives Sagar and Aleksic. First honorary representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164345	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. It's clear to us that the minister can't sit there all the time, he had to get out. We're sorry that he came out because we wanted to tell him something, but please the secretary of state to pass it on to him. In fact, although we are talking about a budget report, we are not talking about last year's snow here, let's do something that is very life-threatening, which is very important, and that is why we want to comment on it both with the current state and with everything not only happening now but what is going to happen in our society in the future. The report is picturesquely brought on paper and it is two-dimensional, as is two-dimensional paper, however, each report is also a certain cross-section, a cross-section of something that is three-dimensional, something that happens in society, something that has a much deeper picture, a much deeper reflection than what we see from these figures is that numbers can always be interpreted differently, and so the figures that are in this report can be interpreted in different ways. Some will say that they are extremely good numbers while others will say that these figures are not good at all. Here, let's just take economic growth if its growth has now decreased and something has eased this decline or the decline has decreased and the decline has increased. In fact, you see, we get into a situation where we can interpret how convenient it is for us at a given time. But to try to sum up briefly what I think is important to note in this debate. When talking about the budget, it's always about revenue and expenditure and our revenues are really good and the budget is really good. As this was 2018 since tax revenues, in particular this VAT as the highest tax income, it continued in the first half of 2019. But what I would give as a picture and personally and in the name of the club is that, we can conclude the budget is well charged but in the wrong way. Why is that? Today, the minister in the opening statement told the Croatian public that there is no concern that pensions will be paid. Mirovina will be paid off this is a good message and I congratulate the minister on such a statement, but despite the fact that the budget itself is always set for one year and these reports as we see them are related to one year or half a year, the minister should especially the finance minister, taking care of how the government as a whole, some ministers see the future for several years. That's what this report is about. Is the pension system well set up or not? Some will say, and what does the Minister of Finance have to do with it? If we observe that the Minister of Finance, that the Minister of Labour and the Pension System is just that ministry that is the technical service, and the Ministry of Finance only transfers what is paid out of contributions or better said only to book if that money doesn't have to be physically he just books on contributions then these things aren't best set up. Both Minister of Finance and Minister of Labour and Pension System must ensure that pensions are stable in the future and that is the minister's task. This should also be read in this budget report for 2018 and for the first half of 2019. I'll say something more concrete about that later. What is evident from these reports that our GDP growth is the most based solely on personal consumption, something less recently on industrial production and what discourages us from importing very much exceeds exports, so import growth is far greater than export growth. This tells us that our entrepreneurship is not yet competitive, and all the measures the government has taken and these tax discharge packages have given certain effects, but have not given enough. And now the question arises, if the finance minister has pointed out on several occasions that by placing income tax on local self-government units, that is the amount of two billion kunas, if we combine it with attracting funds from eu funds, is the effect expected? Local self-government units have received some money, they must have included it in co-financing of eu projects, however, have achieved the effect. If you go down to the local self-government units, then you can see that many projects have been rejected because the other ministry has not well set up the envelopes or the very criteria by which they have allocated money, so some municipalities or local self-government units have received money for something that is not so developmental while others have been denied that money. But we're back on taxes now. As of January 1st, the minister announced, in fact, that the general VAT rate will be reduced from 25 per cent to 24 per cent by 1%. Well, here I would suggest that Minister now, let him just seven days delay the tax rate reduction from 25% to 24%, so let's say we settle the matter of compensation for the cheated workers of Gai, let him extend it for another seven days, and let him settle some other workers' rights, let him extend it to a whole year, let him not reduce the general VAT rate, and let him solve the situation with the payment of the DZ for the poorest, especially for the pensioners who, due to the low-priced pension indexation, have to pay the DWO instead of increasing pensions, have a reduction in income. Another message to the minister, it's very good when the reduction in the profit tax rate actually shows that the total tax collected has increased, it's a good message. So here's the proposal, Minister, let all those employers who pay the median salary, not the average but the median salary to a certain level of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia, free them from paying the income tax. Well, that employer who's successful who's competitive who can pay the workers more wages to get a profit tax, that's why he works. But it happens to us in the Republic of Croatia that those who do bad business, who pay minimum workers to pay their taxes on profits. Finally, to conclude, to leave time and fellow Alexic, the report on the implementation of the budget tells us that despite the fact that the budget is not filling well because we have structural problems, we have problems with the development of the economy, and the best indicator is that we have a reduction in the overall unemployment rate, but this reduction in unemployment rate does not follow a significant increase in the rate or number of employees. In other words, people are still leaving us outside the Republic of Croatia and this is a serious problem that we will face soon on the labour force, and then on the general number of jobs and this unfavourable relationship between the number of workers and the number of pensioners, and at the end of the day all other problems, so the issue of the health hole is not good that Minister Kujundzic advises that the state could solve by borrowing health problems, and that he himself does not say how health problems will be solved so that no more debts are generated. I leave my word to my colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164346	A respected representative, Goran Aleksic, will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164347	Thank you. And I am sorry that Minister Maric is not here because I want to say a few things that are very important that the government of the Republic of Croatia has missed to make the budget better, to make the GDP better, which specifically the Ministry of Finance has failed to do to prevent banks from robbing Croatian citizens. I proposed a law that would resolve illegal changes in interest rates, the law was not adopted unfortunately, which is why the banks took Croatian citizens for years and years, and in 2018 we had the chance to break it, unfortunately, the law I proposed was not accepted. It was also not accepted by the law which I have proposed which is more relevant to the Minister of Justice for the return of the amount of interest paid, if these laws had been adopted GDP would have been better than it was, the budget would have been due to higher spending. However, despite the fact that all of this is not accepted, I will now give one projection, and I pray that what I am going to say is well listened to because this projection is very important for the future of the Republic of Croatia and this projection says that what we do in 2011, what the Franak Association is dealing with since 2011 and what the Power Party is now dealing with in the Croatian Parliament is bringing a lot of, a lot of billions of kuna into GDP and the state budget. In what way? We have a final verdict in the Franak case, which means that powerful verdict? It means that all citizens who have negotiated unfair loans have the right to get overpaid amounts. In the Swiss franc alone, such citizens in loans with the Swiss franc currency clause were 125,000. Some average of the contracted loan, since there are also residential loans and non-intentional loans and car loans, some average of the value of such a loan is about 400,000 kuna per loan. On any such loan, if all citizens sue banks, the banks owe another £200,000, which means half. Half the loan is about the amount the banks owe to the citizens. It's a projection. Someone owes them a little less than half, someone over half, but globally, that's half 200,000 kuna, and now I'm going to consider it as if 100,000 citizens were suing banks. So far they've been sued by 30,000. Someone will say it's not much, but it's really big because by 2023 there's still time for lawsuits. So 30,000 sued so far, and I'm saying by 2023, they'll be suing 100,000 people. 100,000 people, the court fee for each of these proceedings is on average 1,850 kuna times two because it has to be paid both at the entrance and the verdict is 3,700. 3,700 times 100,000 lawsuits equal to 370 million kuna in the budget. Next, the banks will complain. If they don't appeal to all 100,000 lawsuits, 50,000 will surely complain and pay 100% of the entry fee for each complaint, which is 3,700 kuna. 3,700 kuna times 50,000 complaints equals about 135 million kuna. The cost of a lawyer could be about every lawsuit on average 25,000 kuna, 12,500 kuna for the prosecutor, 12,500 kuna for the defendant and all those 25,000 kunas ultimately pay the bank to understand each other because they are guilty. 25,000 kunas of VAT that's 5,000 kuna times 100,000 lawsuits, that's 500 million kuna in the budget. Banks owe 15 billion kuna to Croatian citizens damaged in the case of Franak, another 15 billion kuna. When they get all these 15 billion kunas they'll probably spend it all because they've been limited so far, they couldn't live a normal life and they'll use it to improve their living standards. 15 billion kuna is 3 billion kuna of VAT. So in short, GDP will grow in the next 4 to 5 years thanks to the Franak case for about 20 billion kuna, meaning 20 billion kuna thanks to the activities of the Franak Association will end up in GDP and 3 to 4 billion kuna will end in the RS budget in the next 4.5 years thanks to the activities of the Franak Association and these private lawsuits. I call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia and invite all of you here in the Croatian Parliament to cut the amount that I have now said in a way to pass the law, to legally allow people to reach their money through settlements, which will increase GDP by 15 billion kuna, and the budget by 3 billion kuna, slightly less if they are all sued, but it will be much more effective, and we have the basis for that in Directive 93/13. 8. which allows it, and the European Commission, to my question whether we can do this, has answered me that, you may do it but you will first ask the European Commission about this law itself when you prepare it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164348	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of the Independent Youth List, and time will be shared by respected MPs Tomislav Panenić and Marin Škibola. Very respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164349	Thank you very much. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. I have recently listened to an explanation in a show where mathematics is said not to be numbers but mathematics is something you apply in life and then you just see how in reality some of the figures that you are presented can contribute to the quality of your life or something you do. So we now have before us the implementation of the state budget, of course the figures are those that can be interpreted in two ways. Whoever followed the government's session, the minister there and here put actually positive sides to us, from his point of view it was that we achieved a surplus of about 758 million kuna and that basically all indicators were actually in one positive direction and also filling the state budget and that's kind of what, looking at the times that we used to have, where we were in a deficit, where there were problems with filling the budget, it actually looks great. What I have to say is, when we listen to it there and it's convincing what the minister says. But then, a little bit when we look at it, let's compare a little with some other countries how it works and so on last year 2018. Germany had, we can't compare ourselves by much, by size, and so, they had 58 billion euros in surplus. So about 3x more than our entire budget. So our budget x3 is their budget surplus. But getting size, all of that, would be kind of understandable to us, we can't compare. But then there's another fact that when we look at the German state, it means surpluses, deficits, for example. Interesting data since 1990 from the unification of Germany and given in 2007 had a constant deficit of 17 years. All 17 years had a deficit. But what those of us who were at that time might have said, perhaps, the gas-bitters in Germany, or those of us who actually knew these people, were coming to Germany during that time, and they were coming to us as tourists. Did they talk about their deficit problem? Did you hear the Germans, who, coming on vacation in Croatia, and the problem in their lives is the deficit of their budget, whether it was some topic that I honestly have which I am often in Germany, I did not hear there. And they now have a surplus, does anyone in them talk about that surplus having solved something in the quality of their life that's much brighter there now. No, they even speak the other way around, but they don't bond with the surplus, they say that their quality of life has gone back, that in these conditions of the global market, and it's actually much harder to work, earn their wages and function, feel that pressure and should be logic, and therefore it should be the other way around, given that they have such strong surpluses of the state budget, it would be logical for us to listen to the Minister's communication that they live great. We know they live significantly better but if you asked them if they lived great, they'd say no, if they were actually one hard time. And those with such surplus are talking about the beginning of a period that they consider economically unfavourable, that there is a market contraction that is already entering the recession. Today I'm asking, if they're communicating their numbers like that, so we actually have a reverse situation, should we now commend what happened here? If this surplus was made, in German it would be a paradox if our lives were better, if it were significantly better here. ... said unfortunately we do not have this paradox but seems to be growing surplus so our quality of life declines, because as we go towards the surplus we see our citizens leaving Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Something's wrong. Actually, let's go. That's how I'd try to sublime it if I didn't lose my touch. The presentation, these figures that we're discussing today, which can be accounting or political or in any way plus or minus, means that's something that we might be breaking a spear here, talking about, criticizing, praising, everyone will have their own impression. But we need these papers that are significantly thicker than this to actually represent the quality of people's lives if we're talking about positive shifts. Or say we failed to solve the key problems of Croatian citizens and they feel the problems in their everyday functioning and that is what they want to hear from us. I could talk today about whether the deficit involved HRT, HAC, whether these debts, I already mentioned something about the transfer to HZZO, to cover those minuses, is possible. We see that, according to Minister Kujundzic's statement, when he said we are thinking about not only paying these 500 million, but that the rest of us are in debt. Well, then, I guess people would say logically if we were showing surplus last year 758 million kunas, that's what the layman is, each one will say so we have 758 million kunas extra, we don't have to go into deficits, we can have a balanced budget. So why don't we transfer all those 758 million kunas to HZZO and ease the health situation? Now it actually shows that the figures are one and in reality there's no money. They're gone, it's not a surplus that's standing somewhere, the secretary stored it there in the vault, so we've got 758 million. And let me tell the ministers, now here comes the new budget, we had a surplus, you'll get bigger limits, let's not spend it, let's invest in something that will increase the revenues of the state budget. This means that if the incomes are better, then the quality of people's lives is better. So we have very exact ideas of what we're talking about, but these numbers aren't the terrain we're on. I, who come from Slavonia, don't have it there, we don't feel it. It may be one road more or maybe it's a double asphalt somewhere so it looks a little nicer or something but in reality that quality hasn't come out and here to be critical, to praise, I don't really have a theme. These figures can't communicate like that, they can only communicate on one general policy run by this government and which should give concrete, tangible results on the ground, but unfortunately I can't say that. And what it means is that any report that comes before us that I should be on my profile, write on my facebook, I was against it because the transfer wasn't bigger, because it wasn't included in the surplus, because of state guarantees that weren't shown in a good way, and then they'd say, well, that's what you're writing, but we don't understand you, and I also believe that those who would praise how it's getting better and that, in order for it to be a criterion, here you might look better, okay, but we don't understand you. So we speak one language that in reality has no contact with our citizens. But here I am, and I would like to leave this second part of my fellow Scyboli, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164350	Thank you. In the name of the Independent Youth List will now be continued by the esteemed representative of Shkybol, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164351	Thank you, Vice President HS. Well, here's what Mr. Panenic was saying, so the minister here exhibits himself and he boasts about fiscal consolidation, boasts about reducing deficits, boasts about some major surplus, reducing public debt, but these are the statistics that are nominal, meaning nominal statistics and they do not maintain a real situation in our economy, they do not maintain a real situation in the economy. What do we see it for? So we see that here tomorrow the nurses are protesting low wages, teachers are rebelling over low wages, we've got a driver's protest due to low wages. So if these nominal statistics don't spill over to the real and real state of life of our fellow citizens, then what's the benefit of GDP growing 0.5% if 300 000 young people leave the country, there's no use, you'd dare even say long-term benefits. Otherwise, GDP is often placed in the focus of the public as a major economic indicator, but we economists know that it is not just one of the important economic indicators, there are other economic indicators that reflect a real state even more than it is GDP. I had mentioned the Supreme Court ruling to the Minister of Finance, he responded to it as if politics had nothing to do with the judiciary, that at all, that he did not want to get involved in it, etc. However, the justice system in the case of the Swiss franc all said, so we have a final verdict of the Supreme Court and the judiciary has done the job, now it's a policy move. So, if it is legally established that the banks have been illegally working, that banks have unlawfully broadcast these loans and that people in this context are damaged, then now the policy move is to protect these people and that not every single person goes to court and puts themselves at a certain risk because the banks are always there in some privileged positions, in our judicial system they have great financial power, they can pay for good lawyers, etc., but that the state regulates this problem and compensates people. to encourage banks to pay people back that money. I think it's actually good for the banks, because if we have too many of these lawsuits against the banks, then the banks will break down in case it's too many of those lawsuits, and eventually the Supreme Court said it was illegal business. On this point, I spoke to a Swiss representative and I asked him how it was possible that these toxic, contaminated loans were being broadcast in the Republic of Germany, he asks me, so he asks me, so he asks questions and says, "Has something like that been in Austria, did something like that happen in Germany, indirectly tells me they've placed those loans because our system has allowed these contaminated and toxic loans to be placed here?" And today, the Croatian government indirectly blesses such business because it has not sanctioned it. So, we haven't sanctioned it legally, same as the RBA cooperative, so we legally sanction it, then comes this European Court ruling because normal capital is powerful and they can perform in different ways that in the higher instances certain things are collapsing that are not in favor of them, but the state has to stand sovereignly there, so if we are deeply dependent on foreign banks, and we are, you say to the ministers to reduce public debt, I agree, you have nominally reduced something public debt, but you are still deeply dependent on foreign banks, and when you are deeply dependent on foreign banks, the state is in a subordinate position and foreign banks are asking the government to move on to privatization of public property, to move into that fiscal audit, means restrictive fiscal policy, raising taxes, all on the burden of citizens, and then you, as a public debt, you create a surplus, but on the burden of people and people poor living, and you have good statistics. In my opinion, such a policy is not positive, and it is reflected in the climate in society, it is reflected in the discontent of people, young people leaving this country, so that's all the things we see here in HS and we can't pretend that they don't exist. Here, I think there could be a lot more talk about all this, about these statistics that are not in particular relevant in principle, but I won't be longer, I should just say that the club of independent youth lists won't support this report, and it won't support the report precisely because we don't see that this nominal, nominal data is positively reflected in reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164352	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate and the first one will be spoken by a respected representative of Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164353	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues here are discussing today's State Budget Implementation Report for 2018 and the first 6 months of this year and perhaps in some way the taste of the whole debate is that in a series of positive years or years where we have achieved GDP growth, meaning that it started in 2015 at the end of the term of the government of Zoran Milanovic and continued in continuity in '16, '17, '18. and '19. It's probably how it ends. What concerns is that this growth has slowed since 2016 and is likely to be worse since 2018. So the taste of everything and when you look at the figures and analyze it all together you see that the revenues are significantly higher than they were in 2015 and out of there and out I would say the reduction of the debt of the state compared to that year and possibly the possibility that somewhere on some sides you can fire or allow people to live better today than they did back then. Unfortunately, we do not do this and we see that every day we have certain protests and reactions to injustices because one, one group of society is treated much better than other groups and people leave Croatia and in some ways Croatian demographic land from year to year. That is why today it looks really amazing and the announcement by the President of the Republic that she will be involved in demographics when we see that the last 5 years of her term, especially in the last 2, 3 years when it has expanded almost 200,000 people have left Croatia. And it is essentially the biggest problem that Croatia has at the moment, and therefore it is a wonder that the government or the ministry is not dealing with exactly that, that structure of people such as nurses and health workers who are going to protest tomorrow or teachers who have extremely low wages and that it is being watched, delayed, measure etc., and that billions and billions of kunas are going and it is not our problem whether we choose new F16s or Gripenes or something, something third. So as a state, obviously we've set our priorities wrong at this point, and that's what I fundamentally resent this government, and that the situation is much easier than in 2015, so it's clear to everyone and we're not going to argue about it because 6 years or 4, 5 years of severe recession and easy exit in 2014. No matter how many times they said we wouldn't have any significant consequences, but there was this unfortunate recession that left a mark on the Republic of Croatia. And today I think it's clear to everyone that it's a lot easier with 20 billion kunas more revenue than it was in 2015. So almost a little bit of sound information when we see that the minister said that, even in the opening statement, it was not heard anywhere that I attacked or someone from the craftsman's ministry, but when they say economists close to the government who were in two HDZ advisers of prime ministers such as Mr Lovrincevic, that it should be abolished and that there should be a significant limit on how small entrepreneurs operate in the flat-rate tax accounting then it certainly does not go from the SDP, nor goes from the opposition, but we can only interpret it as the release of test balloons by the authorities. And on that side, I'm glad if the minister here says he won't change anything about it. And I support that, as I also support the measure, as I support the measure they made at the beginning of the mandate when that amount rose from 230 to 300,000 kuna, I would raise it even more. So on this side, I support it because we need to enable people to try to build their jobs with as little cost as possible, and these are usually people who do those man gangs, so there's no big business, people hire themselves and thus enable themselves to survive, and in some industries they can even be competitive as if they're working in neighbouring some countries or countries that have far less tax burdens on wages than the Republic of Croatia does. So if there's 40 to 50,000 people out there doing something, so I don't really understand why it's going so aggressively, I'm saying for now by releasing close media and close economists information to listen to any of the public, to create an impression that something like smudged and mud and that something could be corrected. I don't think so, I think that the state would exactly the opposite should go to further liberalising these least-performing entrepreneurs that exist on the market. So here I am glad that we heard today that there will be no change, I hope that such a policy will continue, just as I am wrong to say, as I was saying in the introduction that we do not have a more targeted target of our fellow citizens in terms of relief. So when VAT is reduced, then everyone knows that that profit is divided, the smaller cost is shared between citizens and companies. Here's what we saw best in meat, fruit and vegetables and what happened last year. After euphoric announcements at the beginning and some chains that have already left promotional actions at the end of the 11th month to attract additional customers, the cheapness under quotes, or price reductions, is lost. At this point, most of the money the minister made easier on the market and the government of trade means the VAT went into the pockets of large sales chains, which were mostly foreign-owned, and eventually the citizens did not feel any of it. And that's why it's so much smarter to invest in the tax redundancy of salaries and those lower wages, what the SDP insists, so that the vast majority of our people, or much bigger than it has been so far, have significantly increased their wages by increasing the non-taxable income. And here to talk about asking some units of local self-government, so we've had examples over the past 10 years when it's been pouring from one side to the other and correcting and the Fund of Alignment, etc., it's all a tax, that's what we're collecting from our citizens, and there's a fairer way to decentralize funds and not lose anything from local self-government units. So that's always a good excuse to say you can't, because like losing units of local self-government, but when it comes to something else, there was no problem proposing these changes. So it also sounds amazing that the health insurance office was in plus and owed 3 billion kuna. So now the question is, how is that possible? And the question is, why don't you pay for that money? Why do we pay tight interest or possibly that we will pay them for a debt of 3 billion kuna if it can now be debted to the state by a 3x lower interest rate than or 4x less interest rate tightened and thus reduce those costs, allow the entire system to function at the end of the day, and that the banks, or those who credit, do not earn that much on interest. There's still room to cut costs. As interest costs have been reduced for example, just please do not tell me that the government of Andrej Plenkovic is responsible for this because the interest rates are at historically low levels because then I expect Angela Merkel will also thank Andrej Plenkovic and all the large economies where the interest rates are even minus. Croatia is currently in debt at the historical lowest interest rates but still 2.3% higher than, for example, Slovenia. So even in that ratio, it shows that we're not as great as it wants to be. But what I'm particularly concerned about and what we're not dealing with, and I'm going to end up not dealing with people. So demographics, people leaving, and the main problem of leaving Croatia is low wages. And if the nurses, if the teachers or someone else sees that in 200, 300 km away, they can earn twice or 3x more, then normally they'll leave. And that's why it sounds surreal again today's announcement by the president who says she's going to be doing it and she hasn't done it at all in the past five years, and the results in demographics are catastrophic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164354	Thank you. We have two replicas, the first respected representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164355	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague Maras, we've done a lot of things like this. As for demographics, just for a little while, we were together in the government, HDZ was attacking people leaving, now we're back with HDZ, you're also saying that people are leaving again. Now how much does the government have to do with it then, of course, has something to do with it. As far as the cobwebs are concerned, I've already said that on behalf of the club and in the replica we can absolutely agree that they must not be seen as criminals because they knowingly choose and waive the rights and the Labour Act, annual sick, free days, severance and all that and put that uncertainty on the labour market and charge it in such a way that they don't, too, they can agree. And as for the reduction of VAT on food, I would disagree with you because if we did that 10 years ago, we'd be lucky to have stayed the price of food today as it was 10 years ago. Not that she was shrinking, but that she was the same. Then what would be the purchasing power of our citizens and what would be the standard? So I think we need to go further with the VAT reduction on food and further increase the purchasing power of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164356	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164357	Thank you very much. One conclusion could be drawn from your presentation. You say people left when you were with us in power and when you were with HDZ in power. So whenever the HNS is in power, people leave. So that's, that's, look out... It's so interesting, but let's let go of that analysis now, the fact that the dramatic situation is just recently. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So it can't even be compared to the time of 2014, 2015, and I remember Karamark and his yelling about how many people have gone, twice as many people are gone now, and it won't stop until we get the work conditions up, so until we get paid, it won't stop. I'm calling on Mr. Shucker and you to go down to the nurses to support them. Because people who do some work in a way need to be supported under better working conditions. They're not bullshit demands, they're very real demands they make and we need to give them support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164358	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you were talking about health debts and how to handle it. You remember in 2012 and then the government of Zoran Milanovic paid about 6 billion kuna in health debts that were accumulated from previous years. The HDZ also paid debts a year ago, it's simple, it's one part that accumulates, now it's come to 3 billion, when the economy is at 4%. So these are the amounts that are all, as Mr. Shucker knows, recorded, and recorded through the treasure system. And... He tied himself up that when there was talk during our term of office that this exit from the treasury system would settle debts in the health care system, it didn't go away, that's when I fought against it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, politics has made a decision to exit the treasury system, and although the minister said that more than 2 billion kunas are to health care and through a larger contribution, we see that part not being solved. And I don't think it can be just for the Minister of Health because it's a very difficult problem in health care, but we need to deal with it together. And about the investment rating you were saying, I remember very well. I'll do that in another replica. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164360	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164361	Thank you very much. Well, absolutely, I remember those times and debts that remained behind the government until 2011, it's amazing, so it's been able to generate nearly six billion kunas in health care. And now here we go again that way. So, and that's why, I'm also saying that, if not, I agree with you that there is not only a burden on the Minister of Health, although he is the most responsible for the system how it works, but also on the whole government, there are particularly responsible finance ministers who have to find a model how to, how to make the system work. As far as separation is concerned, obviously it wasn't the health care from the treasury, it wasn't either solution or problem, but the fact is if we have 3 billion kunas of debt, so what doesn't make sense is that it's being financed, but that this debt is being accumulated, or that it's paying tight interest, that's something that's the most basic logic. And it's weird to me that this isn't working right now... [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164362	Now we're going to move on to the next individual exhibit, and that will be the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164363	Not to get into a situation like 2012 again. when there was 6 million debt in health care. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164364	Thank you very much. Ministers, Vice-President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Maric, you said in your presentation that unemployment is being reduced, I am now comparing citizens' accounts, foreign transfers, 10 billion kunas coming to the Republic of Croatia and that reminds me of our history, 50 years old. Back then, 10 billion kunas of our people who went outside each year bring 10 billion kunas into the Republic of Croatia, so that's what we're talking about, if you're not cheating on me, if it's not the Minister's fault. So this turns out to be the time when it was planned, which means more foreign exchanges in the Croatian budget, and I'm back to 50. Back mainly in their neighborhoods when men went out, mostly mostly and then paid money to make an example in Germany marks,... Their families would have stayed here, so this reminds me basically of the code you made as planned as during Yugoslavia 50 years ago. more vanca so much more in the Croatian budget. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you're still here calling for this pay phone is reduced unemployment. But how is unemployment reduced? Let's look at the statistical indicators, just at 3. The last 100,000 are less people in the Republic of Croatia and of that is a large part of the people who work outside and pay out here and that's why you're talking about positive balances, this, that, but they don't create extra value in the Republic. It was similar in Tito's Yugoslavia, 10 billion kuna, you brought us back to be 50 years old. Back then, it's just that only men left, and kids mostly, kids and women would stay here, and now everybody's leaving, so 10 billion kuna, that's not a small amount, you, you correct me, you'd like to correct me if I'm wrong. So, the more our excavators, the more of our citizens from abroad. more devising and it's a real picture, and it's currently a real picture, that demographic decline is catastrophic, that we don't create a new value, that during the increase in consumption, that we mainly buy foreign products, that we increase imports, and domestic production falls. So we're in some kind of pre-recession time, that's what they're saying... an expert, and in this time when we had money, we did not, you as Government did not move the meaning of domestic production, but that domestic production fell, while telling us that the EU funds were increased, that the EU funds were increasing. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a real picture to tribale domestic production, and there goes our economy, industry, agriculture, essentially all this is growing, and what's important is that in the Republic, what's important is the decline, and what's irrelevant and what's not supposed to happen is growing. I think there is a key to the problem, boasting with a balance of 10 billion kuna payments from abroad from our citizens is not a good message, it is not a good picture, and we also see it in demographic terms, in demographics that the areas of 2/3 of the Republic of Croatia are literally empty, we will start from Neretva, between Krka and Neretva 100 000 people are less, only in this period of the last 15 years, meaning these are huge, huge failures, but this government, for all of what you said to the ministers, would like to listen to, for all you've said the problem is what domestic production falls, statistically, only milk in the Republic or milk as we say, 10.5% less production in Dalmatia, while we boast with agricultural incentives. We've never imported pork again, literally we don't have pig production anymore, never worse food, it's already over EUR 3-4 billion, it's leaving, it's growing rapidly. So, you brought the RH... You mention the CNB, you mentioned that they leveled a certain external debt, this, that, that is, that is, that is, the only thing they are increasing, is the master's chief whom they have received to kiss down the fish with white wines and black wines with other food, only what they have done for Croatian citizens. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] The CNB Minister is neither Croatian nor folk, only the master of the chiefs who received it you know well to love fish parity with, food with wines. Is that, then everything would be different, you mentioned the CNB to settle, a new way of calculating external debt, feel free to ask the CNB which Kingdom is untouchable, which has also produced all the problems and impactes on the Croatian economy and what it has produced, of course there is Vujčić the key to the story. You mention here, you mentioned EU funds, as far as I follow statistical indicators, the Republic of Croatia is at the bottom, below Malta, at the bottom after withdrawing funds from EU funds. You speak agreed, you even mentioned at one point, the Republic of Croatia is interested in how much we've withdrawn, and now we're running out of this seven-year budget period. We're out of 10 billion kunas, somewhere I don't know how much we've done so far, how much money was spent, not contracted, let go of the contract, very little, that's 10%. Now a new budget period will be going on soon, then you say when we are at the head of the EU here, and I think what's important is that we are headed by the EU, so President Gordan Jandrokovic didn't even know who last year, which was the EU member-in-chief of that country, the president of the assembly, is how important that is who is headed by the EU. Real life is important, real life is important, and when I look at health care, we see that the highest quality workforce is leaving us, what I was saying just 10 billion kunas ago on the leads from the abroad of our citizens are doctors, medical staff, protesting nurses tomorrow, while you're so in the plus, i.e. when you're all balance sheet.../incomprehensible/... that's what our people are moving out of here because they don't have a salary, outsiders are paying that money, and that's it. These are the signs of our citizens from abroad who have moved out and have remained empty villages. And when I listen to my Dalmatian Zagora, the ministers who come and praise them were in Trillo, when I listen to those praises, and 90% of the village is dead, there is no life, so it's a poster to God and I'm listening to this pay phone to make everything bloom. I'll get you another bouquet of roses, how much it bloomed, then dead, hey. Health homes do not exist for people health services, schools strictly controlled cleaners cannot be hired without mayors and his listeners. Everything is controlled, the system is completely controlled, you've controlled it, everyone else has to go outside and through the codes to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as citizens, and 10 billion kunas each year are paid outside, clean foreign exchanges, clean foreign exchanges, and that's history. The government's policy of Andrej Plenkovic's minister, in which you are the Deputy Prime Minister, is the same targeted, planned policy, still organise trains so that they can go towards Germany. Empty is the Dalmatian Zagora, Slavonia is empty, agriculture is gone, the economy is gone, and everything is growing, all indicators are growing. What's in reality, in reality, what is it? Here I would like to ask you to come down to the Ministers, and you and I will take a walk, along the Trille hinterland of Cetinska kraj, along the sonic hinterland, along the mountainous area we will go towards Knin, and we will head towards Drniš, we will head towards Skradin, and you will see, Ravni kotars, Lici, Gorski Kotar, Slavonia, something around Zagreb, Rijeka and these few swimming pools. This is a policy plan, like the '60s. What Tito has done to Yugoslavia, organized that our people are going out and that foreign exchange payments are being paid to the Republic of Croatia, and therefore you now have 10 billion kunas to pay, the sign of our citizens from outside to the budget of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia. And the more people our people go outside, the less unemployment they get because they're less on the desk, and the more we're coming in. It's the policy of Tito's Yugoslavia in the '50s, '60s, foreign exchanges came here from outside. Otherwise, the economy, agriculture, believe me, trust me, 90% in the Dalmatian Zagorje which was processed by the Sinjsko polje, Vrgoračka, Drnjska, Kninski is under the weeds, and had rivers of clean, clear water only had a irrigation system and we didn't use it. Therefore, this is a planned policy to move out as much as possible and that you can justify your balance with payments to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164365	Thank you, we have two replicas. He's the first respected representative of Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bulj, you connected something I did, and I spoke a strong import component in the Republic of Croatia that actually disrupts not only economic growth but also disrupts not only the balance of payments but also destroys domestic production. It would be interesting to see out of 10 billion kunas how much EU funding is now, and here is the question of the Peljega Bridge, the work of Croatian workers, and there is no industrial production there that someone from the Croatian factory produced there, so it worked somehow, I don't know how much iron there is, how much steel there is, how many of these materials from industrial production, especially the one that works there, so it should flourish in fact for Dalmatia and the whole South, in fact, for such a big project and we see who will do access roads, the Greeks work, the Chinese work. It would be good to talk about equality so that our companies can get in Poland, Hungary, Austria in some other European countries, and then there would be no problems. However, our companies can hardly get jobs outside from EU funds, but unfortunately they can't even get domestics. And that's why this import component from the EU is growing funds Most unfortunately, it is spent only on imports. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164367	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164368	I would agree with you completely, i.e. The Pelješki bridge would be signed by the Chinese, of course not even a can in Croatia will not buy, they ferry and cans and food and food and iron, and all the material will naturally be introduced from China, so there is nothing for the Croatian economy, and at the same time we had branded companies that had destroyed companies, which had long-standing meanings of their work behind them, had ratings in businesses, they had meanings such as Construction, Lavčević and numerous other companies that worked projects once out in other third-world countries. But today the Chinese have entered our market only because it is very important in this case for Mrs Merkel and German politics to relate to China which are the reasons some prime minister responds, to be Chinese in our area and through whom they entered the EU, through Croatia. No Croatian citizen remains very few of these EU funds on Peljega Bridge, and that's the story Our people are working out, and the Chinese are working out here. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164369	The next is a replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164370	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bulj, here are the campaigns going to be for the president's election, there will be parliamentary elections, and the minister should come to your area in Sinj there or come to me and, of course, in front of those people then you say, people are fine with the budget surplus. It just comes in there, and I'm giving you a message that it's good because it's a budget surplus and let's see how that surplus of me at your place to see where we can see it, the deficit of people, the deficit of schools, the deficit of mail, the deficit of deficits, whatever you look at, I have the deficit of everything. So we lost the substance we're not talking about anymore. And then I wonder where that surplus comes from, if it's made in Sinj, somewhere in Face or somewhere else, where it comes from, that we could all support together that it's a surplus.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164371	The answer to the respected representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164372	Comrade Panenić, you live in Slavonia, you know that, here are the mentions and incentives, the number of measures that... for agriculture, but you know that agriculture is literally dead and that our import lobbys, and the pests imported by food products when we speak and agricultural products, have simply destroyed Slavonia and targeted it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's simple at this point when the minister says the tips we got from abroad 10 billion to... These Slavons of yours, mine from the Dalmatian Mountain, from Sinj, no matter, they're working outside now and they're paying tribute to the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the balance he boasts about. And the more he sends out, the more he'll send in the budget, but it's an empty state. There is no state without people, there is no Slavonia of farmed fields if there is no people. Only if they're not meant for some multinational companies so the Slavons serve as their second, third hand in the land processing. The problem is that politics from Zagreb does not see what happens on... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164373	Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to the next individual exhibit and it's going to be the respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam State Treasury, the minister will be here. So today we are discussing a document that is the basis for leadership, actually a basis for discussing what economic policy was led in the previous period. Because the revenue side is not a free interpretation of something but is the consequence of the laws that have been passed in this House of Commons, and the expenditure side is the result of certain business transactions and the rights that we have brought to someone under certain legal rules. And that's, you could say that's the budget. And unfortunately every time you discuss these documents, then everyone likes to interpret the data and they're like this, and they're like that. However, we need to know that since Croatia's entry into the EU, we have a supervisor who is Eurostat, in principle, controlling all this data, all the methodologies that we have come up with. However, I will give myself the right since this is an individual debate to open up some topics here that could have a significant impact on the expenditure side of the budget tomorrow. Well, if we didn't talk about them post-festum, I'd rather we discuss them now while we have space. Why? Because some of these topics are already creating a huge headache for both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance and the finance ministers, and politicians are opening up the possibility of competing who would give more. So, salaries, salaries that amount to about 29 billion kuna of the state budget. Now, you take an employer, and the government is an employer who wouldn't want to reward his employee with as much pay as possible, there's no employer like that. But the question is, is that possible? And then we need to look at the revenue side of the budget whether we can tax-load more Croatian citizens through the economy. Hardly. But wages are the structural problem of the Croatian budget and not these governments, not these political options, but other political options. And let's not let our colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about salaries, talk about basics, the basics are the least of the problems. What is basic and what is the biggest problem of the wage debate is coefficients and additions. Why the coefficients and the additions? Because they're worth the work, they're rewarding whoever's working. Someone can't get the same salary just because formation belongs somewhere like the one who's a real perpetrator. Whether it's a pay grade policy or something, but we just have to do it and we have to bring it in so that with practically the same resources and opportunities for wage growth without increasing the tax burden, we can reward those who do the job better. But if we're going to take the Uralwolf all equally, on the one hand we have a great burden on the budget, you can't say that 29 billion for the Croatian budget is not a great burden, we have a huge dissatisfaction of those who do the job. It's just a fact we can't get away from. Now the question is whether we have enough political courage and strength to solve this problem, we can solve it only with new coefficients and a new definition of additions and simply evaluate work rather than value membership. The next thing I want to say something in person and I think it's the attitude and all my colleagues in the HDZ club, they're Croatian defenders' pensions because I simply can't talk about the budget today without touching that topic. Why? Because I spoke to Mr. Mrsic about the subject while he was a minister, I was an opposition representative. And I'm gonna tell him now what I told him and then. The Croatian defenders did not get the privilege. We gave the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders the opportunity for something that simply belongs to them. Croatian defenders did not retire that they did not have working days, they worked, some 10, some 20, some 30 years, paid a pension contribution and have the right to do so as all Croatian citizens. We said that the pension of the Croatian defenders by the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defences must not be below that and that percentage. So we at the Croatian Parliament, no one else. And now to talk about that Croatian defenders are the problem with the stability of the pension system is at least unfair. Because if it wasn't for the Croatian defenders, we probably wouldn't be discussing this here today. But nobody minds the foundation of what law and how it still hangs 12,000 partisan pensions. Just as the former state paid pensions to the first world war Croatian warriors who died on the Russian front. It's not something that's simply an obligation of the state. But to ignore and thus to try with those who created this Croatian state is simply something that we all from the HDZ club cannot accept. In fact, let pensions be calculated for each Croatian defender and all others who have certain accessories based on specific regulations. Because both civil and disability pensions are based on some specific regulations. Therefore, let us not speak in such a way as to adhere to the laws and regulations when we talk about Croatian defenders' pensions. HZZO is not true that it was renovated in 2012 with 6 billion, the rehabilitation of health care for the entire Milanovic government was around 6 billion, such as all ministers before the Church then rehabilitated the health care here. And be sure every finance minister will tell you the same thing, and this clearly indicates that the problem of Croatian health care costs is the structural problem of Croatian society. So we need to define what kind of health care we want, how much this health care service costs, and then provide money in the budget based on those who pay in health contributions to the budget and in health insurance. All those who exercise the right and do not have the basis for a working relationship under the Health Insurance Act must be provided in the budget and clearly show that we all see how much money it is. Look, someone's got a great idea that the problem of Croatian health care will be solved if HZO is removed from the treasure. What do we have today? We have debts and greater than they were, even though this minister, like the previous one, is relieving it, but we have to solve this system. I said about wages, and as far as health insurance rights are concerned, we have to define what it is and say it costs so much and so much, by health contributions we can collect so much and so much, we'll be covered by tax revenues and that's the fact. What is the newspaper of this and the past several budgets on both income and expenditure side is a new source of quality income, these are eu funds. You see that in today's budget implementation you have very little investment, infrastructure public facilities because they are more or less all funded from European funds. Now it depends on the ability, not only of the ministers, but also of the local and regional self-government and entrepreneurs how ready they are of what our financial package is to say which Croatia gets to pull back so we don't practically leave anything in Brussels, it's a matter of our ability, not this or that. We can do this one way or the other, but let's see why someone didn't use it tomorrow when you're doing that job you don't repeat that mistake and take advantage of it. And if we can still touch a few more topics this way, I've taken these three, if we discuss the budget this way, then we're going to raise that quality of the budget and the execution of its creation to one higher level. And most importantly, Croatian citizens should pay lower taxes on this basis, and those who are beneficiaries of the budget should get better funding and better resources. Croatia could also show how social, just state it is. Something I want to say, and I think my colleague Lalovec will agree with me, but also my colleague, Maric, and these are the rating agencies. So for years we've been assured we can't raise your ratings because you're in the EU, so it's insecure. When we joined the EU, they did not reward us for raising our credit ratings but for reducing the existing ones. And if they had not done so, if they had done otherwise, twice the credit rating was actually reduced once before entering the EU, today the risk coefficient of Croatia would not be around 0.75 or 0.70 but would have been lower, so Croatian entrepreneurs and the Croatian state would also be in debt somewhere, for example, by 1%, and the state might be with 0.2.0.3%. Therefore, let us not politically engage when it comes to rating agencies, we must all be together because we are all fighting together for the interests of the Croatian state, and not using the rating is like this and the rating is like this. Both colleagues and colleagues, if each of us from his segments of life's knowledge had discussed and implemented this budget in such a way, perhaps the minister would have been given a more high-quality Imputation for the 2020 budget. I'll support this execution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164375	Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas. The first, of course, will be the esteemed representative of Maras, he was raised before you even started speaking. Here you go, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164376	Thank you very much. Mr. Schucker can't be surprised at one part of your debate where you say it's unfair for people to know how much pensions are made and how much pensions we give under the privileged regulation and where they go to get away from those pensions earned under the Pension Insurance Act, especially those people who have worked 40 years or full-time. Why wouldn't they know that? Who does that hurt, and what's hiding in a situation where 16 billion kunas are more budget money than what goes into the pension insurance budget? That's unclear to me. On the other hand, it's even less clear to me how you can say that unreal messages where I want people who work for below average jobs to raise salaries, and 20 billion kuna is more income than it was in 2015. So who would you give Mr. Shucker to? And give to whom and in what way? I'd say you're buying votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164377	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164378	Comrade Maras, it would be fair and correct to listen to someone at least to be correct and to interpret what someone said. So I didn't say what you said at all, but you're famous for it. So, I said what I was saying when I was an opposition representative, that's what I'm saying today. And now I tell you in the baby again, the Croatian defenders did not retire without a day's work. These people worked, they made payments, and I kept my mouth shut while you were talking, so keep your mouth shut now. I'm telling you in person now, and you can't deny it, and that's the only thing that's controversial, you can't deny that these people have been doing it, and you can't deny that the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders have given them certain rights, these are facts and you can't run away from it, no matter how much you didn't like it. The other thing, as far as pay goes, what you said is the biggest crap anyone could say, I would never say it. I've said the exact diametric opposite of what you're saying, except I'm not a populist like you, so I speak one thing when I'm in power, and the other I talk when I don't have responsibilities when I'm in opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164379	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164380	Mr. Shuker, tell me, the minister has pointed out on several occasions that spending is increasing because GDP is higher and imports are increasing. What's going to be the effects of having less production, and agricultural, and here I said that dairy production last year is 10.5% lower in Croatia, so we don't have any, means healthy logical connection, resuscitation, and resilient imports, and domestic production is falling, that's one thing, and another thing is 10 billion kunas from abroad, which means that this unemployment that the minister emphasizes, how you comment, is the fact that our people go beyond the borders and the evidence is being paid into the Republic of Germany from other countries, Germany and I don't know where they went, which means these indicators that the minister speaks as positive in the balance are actually negative, vice versa because the problem is We don't have a population... [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164381	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164382	You see, colleague Bulj, what you're saying is, there's one key line missing, so it's definitely that by changing the tax code one large part of the income that has so far been the income of the state budget has left to the citizens. So, with this basis, they increased their purchasing power, unfortunately the Croatian economy is not able to produce it and it's not something, but it's something that happens in such a situation, and then you have increased imports and the automatic balance of payments are negative, as well as we can't get away from it, it's simply economic, economic legality, so you've given someone more money to buy, the domestic economy can't produce it, someone's importing and selling it, the market buys it, and as far as the evidence is concerned, my late father spent 30s and a few more years out there and I know well what the signs from abroad mean, and how much luck they've done to my family, probably, too, and today so do many families when they come to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164383	The next replica of the respected representative Tomislav Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164384	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shucker, I've somehow gotten the impression from your speech that it's practically the HDZ that's the only one who cares about the defenders, somehow myself, I can't accept that it's always because of you and that we stayed here, it's actually the fact that you're communicating with someone here against the defenders and the pensions that you said, I agree in that part of what you said, so the people who were involved were certainly not looking for a pension, or going to fight for a pension, but they were actually working out of gratitude for a country that wanted in some way to help them solve their next life and through that way, and that's what the minister clearly said, 5 billion kuna that we're dealing with in one time and okay about it, but I'm saying, it can't be the politics that no one has abolished them so far, so far, so they're still others. I don't think that's the topic we need to discuss here. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164385	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164386	My colleague Panenić, you've never heard from me, and today, the HDZ is only taking care of the defenders, I'm not going to say that, I just don't have the right to do that. But I said that today the first, actually me, so on behalf of my colleagues who won't speak, we mentioned that problem, but obviously, don't be angry with you, it's not clear to me what I've responded to, so I've been reacting because someone's pointing out that the problem of the pension system is a defence pension, I've just been trying to say something for years that these people, what you said, before going to defend their country, were working, paying for a pension, etc., and from that basis they're participating this solidarity pension system, and this second part of the pension gave them the state the foundation of the Law on the rights of Croatian defenders because she said that the defence pension couldn't stand under that percentage, and I don't think that the two of us here are at all in thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164387	The next replica of the respected representative, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164388	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Shuker, if someone in this Chamber has the experience and competence to discuss this today in view of everything you've been doing and given the time, a few years, as far as I know, faced with the biggest economic crisis of an independent Republic, I would ask you a question. So, we all agree that we would all like people in the public sector to have higher salaries, we all agree, we are faced with a labour market problem, it started out uncontrollably with imports of labour with multiple continents. Now, maybe it's a mature moment, so do you think it's a mature moment, that one part of the staff at the time of the digitalization of the state administration, one part of the public sector is being transferred to the private sector before we start mass importing Filipinos, Ukrainians, I don't know who not all of them are, to give people better wages, to invest in schooling, that's my question for you, I think it's of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164389	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164390	Well, fellow Milosevic, I think the two of us understand each other completely. When I said that wages are a structural problem, then it implies an organisational innu change in the space in which these people operate and work and then probably because of both digitisation and everything, there will be extra people, somewhere there will be shortages of people, but in order to know that it is something that is optimal at the moment, we need to implement structural reforms. We can't have coefficients and bonuses on the salary that are 15 or 20 years old, so that's what it's about, and structural reform doesn't have to mean cutting something, but simply who gives, does a certain job, consciousness it in the framework in which he's doing it at that point, and that's certainly not something that was 15 or 20 years ago. And certainly something will appear in certain areas. Here, someone mentioned today, I think the minister mentioned, a few years ago you didn't need this kind of police officers on the border to safeguard the territorial integrity of the Republic of Croatia, today you just need to, but you have to quote it. and about the pay and the technical equipment of those people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164391	The next replica is the respected representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164392	My dear colleague, I'm glad you mentioned this very stigmatization of defenders and defense pensions, so I have an example of a man who worked in the system, one system of forests over 37 years, of which he was another 2 years old. or 3 in the Homeland War, how we're going to treat it with such a pension, if he only earned from rights as a defender or primarily as a man who earned his pension there. In addition, as far as wages are concerned, the most important thing in the public sector is to regulate the rules that will really reward work, and not as we have a case where we want to introduce some order into certain public services that happens if some people do not accept it. Why? Because it's not worth the work, it's probably just status.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164393	Thank you. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164394	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Veschigay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164395	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's fellow Shuker you mentioned that investments are now mostly funded from eu funds, and that's true, and you also mentioned the ability of local units. Here I absolutely agree with you because local units are the most responsible of course for projects that are in their area because they have been preparing them for years, doing project documentation, and this distinguishes those successful local units from those less successful ones. So I would now ask you a little bit for a comment also given that on the announced tax changes, and I before and the minister asked at the beginning in the replica, he said that this loss that will have local self-government that climbs somewhere up to billions of kunas will be no compensation for local self-government units since we have often heard from you one boast that it is good that you have left so much to local self-government, it is true. How to comment now that the local self-government is actually half of that amount taken away and that it will have some units of local self-government major problems to co-finance... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164396	Thank you. Your Honor, counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164397	I'm not going to comment on something that hasn't happened yet, but I'm pretty sure I can't support it, and I agree with someone just taking someone's money, because if someone created it, you know, some kind of obligation, then you have to give him some kind of right based on what they're going to do. And as for eu funds and units of local self-government, what worries me most about local self-government units withdraws money to build public buildings, public facilities are always welcome, but always in the future the cost, and very little money we withdraw from opening new jobs because when we open new jobs, these jobs will tomorrow build these public buildings. And that's why I was talking in this context when I was talking about EU funds, that we all need to pull more together for projects that will create jobs, and then local self-government units will have room for funding and without the help of the state. And then we can open up the property tax story, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164398	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164399	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you have well noticed that the thorn in the eye of individuals, especially the left political options, are the pensions of Croatian defenders, disabled, killed, families of prisoners and missing, widows and children of the dead. And they constantly point to it and call them and insult them as privileged persons, and they all had the same privilege and opportunity to be members of the Homeland War at the invitation of the first president to defend the Republic of Croatia. I hope they left it out as it appears from the attached that they were not involved, and could have had the same rights, could have achieved the same status as the defender and received the wounds or achieved the execution. I therefore believe that what you said, most of the Croatian defenders worked in their working life of 5.10.15.20 and more years and therefore cannot be said that they were all minors who... Homeland war without a day's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164400	Thank you. A colleague, Maras, has done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164401	Thank you very much. He was injured in 238. I think this rhetoric is very dangerous and that slowly the defenders already understand that politics should be removed from HVIDRA that is being abused for one party. 238, he said a whole series of lies. [[Reiner: And what has the Rules of Procedure been injured in?]] So there's no thorn in our eyes, no defenders, no one... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164402	I give you a warning because you abuse The Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure... [[/Intruder Maras: Why?]] Please sit down. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Please, I'm responding right now, I gave you a warning and I'm asking you to sit down. [[Intruder Maras: But react to that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164403	Act on Djakic, who politicises his function and abuses the association for political purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164404	Please sit down, I'm giving you another restraining order. That's your third warning and I won't let you speak again until the end of this point. Here you go. Read the Rules of Procedure and see what democracy is. You don't understand what democracy is, democracy is order and respect for order. The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164405	My colleague Djakic, I was just about to open the issue in my individual debate and you can see that we can't discuss it without tension. And I just wanted to tell the Croatian public, and we here in the Parliament that the defenders who went to defend Croatia's homeland on their way back, some of them got involved, started working in some... etc., but there were people who worked and paid pension contributions. And what they get through the defense pension was the High House passed through the Law on the Rights of Croatian Defence. I didn't even want to mention it out of respect for the disabled, or the families of the dead and missing Croatian defenders, I just didn't want to put them in, because I just don't think that we should talk about it. And allow me something personal when we talk about the defenders, tomorrow is my 153rd big-gore brigade so I can wish all 153th brigades a wish and congratulate their day.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164406	The next replica is the respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164407	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, you've also talked about the budget, so you've talked about the defenders. I can't really understand that today in this debate when Minister Maric here spoke about the implementation of the budget really spoke about a wonderful result that the government, not one government in the Republic of Croatia has recently achieved such good results, although it can be better. So today we're discussing defenders, their privileged pensions. Well, here you are as long-time minister in the government of the Republic of Croatia, I'd like to ask you to pull the parallel from 8 years ago, so the SDP government on billions of deficits, losses and everything we've witnessed, as we've seen today's situation in the state budget. As for the defenders, they earned their pensions, they soaked it with blood and no one has the right to discuss Croatian defenders and their pensions, only those who do not appreciate Croatian defenders as individuals do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164408	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164409	You gave me a colleague, Lucic, in fact... I think it should be said here that the government made a great use of the environment, came out of an excessive deficit measure, consolidated public finances and practically the central state is close to balancing, no need to borrow and the government this favourable movement on the financial market with low interest rates can be used for all of these loans that come on payment to refinance them at very low interest rates. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, at the end of the day, when you look at the execution of 2018, the cost of interest is about nine billion kuna and the cost of interest during the SDP's last 2015 government was 12 billion kuna. So only with the basis of more favourable refinancing of former loans is the cost of nearly 3 billion kuna on the spending side and the result is positive macroeconomic indicators. But I repeat, whoever suspects these indicators the supervisor of this whole story is Eurostat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164410	And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Davor Eve Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164411	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, you have properly warned of the challenges ahead of us. And all these problems and challenges might be summed up on the fact that this state apparatus is too expensive and that we have to deal with it. But you also said rightly that we will not solve it by saving on the defenders, but rather by requiring comprehensive structural reforms and these already famous structural reforms are nothing more than redefining what the states are doing and leaving to the citizens, society to organise themselves and the free market. Because that is the only way that we can really further reduce taxes but it will require that we may also deal with the wasteful side of the budget and that is the only way we can increase GDP growth at some higher rates than they are today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164412	The answer of the esteemed counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164413	Yes, colleague Stier, you've opened a broad topic. Because if you take some of the reforms that this government has undertaken in terms of tax reforms, and even some of the social results are seen, with virtually the same resources in the social part, you are exercising greater rights. Look, they all said that with the basis of the reduction in the overall rate to certain food products, revenue in the state budget will be reduced. No, it happened exactly the opposite. Why? Because the environment is the one that's just pulling you in. And that is why structural reforms should not be feared but simply the system should adapt time and space in which it takes place and works. And then this state budget will be able to cover it all. But I repeat one new quality of this budget is the possibility of eu funds. We just have to take advantage of it because if we don't use it we're going to bang on the head because it's the money that's simply there to take it. If we don't take them, someone else will. And so we simply have to look at it in a slightly different way. But if you saw it today in the debate, it wasn't exactly that kind of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164414	Thank you very much. Now we continue with individual debates. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164415	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. I already said two, three hours ago when I polluted with the minister that this budget that's been presented to us here, the report that he's not credible and not entirely true. The Committee on Finance of the Parties Change Croatia has studied this report well, and we have come to these findings, among other things, and according to the findings of the state audit that well reviewed this report. So what the report says and what it suggests is that we cannot accept this report and the party change Croatia and I will not accept and support when there is a vote on this state budget. You know we speak from the party to change Croatia only with arguments. And here you see, I'm sorry there's no minister, he's co-opted here today because he spoke here in front of 90% non-economy, and there you can sow a lot of things but let him face me now, because I'm not just a politician but also a university professor in finance. But he's gone, as you can see. I'm sorry, I don't believe he's afraid of these arguments and I'm going to speak with arguments. What the state audit here has seen, as the state audit here has said, you see, I quote, but first I'll say the following. A few days ago, the media reported that the State Statistics Institute had manipulated it because it wrote a year ago that it had 100,000 more employees than it did today. The National Bank said a few days ago that the foreign debt is not 39.7, but 42, means 3 billion euros more. The methodology is constantly changing. And respected citizens in Croatia are great manipulations of economic indicators and data. The party in power, this trade coalition, it interprets them as it suits it and people are mass still leaving in Croatia and pensioners, and as the minister says, do not be afraid, you will receive regular pensions, that you will receive a church of £2.500,00 on average, of which my people cannot live, it is 39% of the average salary in the Republic. When it was 1990. created by the Republic of Croatia, then the average pension in relation to the average salary was 75%, so the pensioners paid for the political structures that led this country, and these here are the people sitting on the left and right and the dear pensioners, you paid for it and you pay for it, or all together. What does the state's audit say in its report? I quote, the provision of the Budget Law stipulates that a separate report on the implementation of the public debt management strategy is being drawn up in the framework of the annual report on the implementation of the public debt management strategy, this is not here today, it is not attached, therefore not managed by public debt. Second, what does the state audit say? In a report on borrowing on the domestic and foreign money and capital markets, the debt of the state budget was shown at a lower amount of 803 million kuna, meaning the debt of the state budget was shown by 803 million kuna as loans from the University of Croatia were left out. The third finding of the state audit says, this is particularly interesting, listen to this, given that some entities that meet the conditions for obtaining status outside the budget user of the state budget are not listed in the list of extra budget beneficiaries of the state budget, see who is there, says HZ Infrastructure, HRT, Croatian highways, HBOR, etc., and then say, and they are not even involved in the budget processes that are related to making budgets and financial plans not to quote further, so my people, here there are no major companies, how did you do the budget? Well, Mr. Minister, how are you not uncomfortable with this report bringing us and sending us to the European Commission, how are you not embarrassed? But you claim, you have a good syncope like when you were in Agrokor, you were in charge of the capital market and strategy, they said, when they asked you if it was all good in Agrokor, you said everything was good, and then when Agrokor broke down, you said they weren't telling you the right information, so don't tell us again today, you know. Either you do this job right or you leave because you already intend to, I don't know maybe you're being blackmailed, so they won't let you leave, right? So, you left out the debt of companies, local self-government like the Zagreb Holding, and you know how many debts there are, over 10 billion kunas, you know how much, you said earlier, what is the debt of the health system, 7 billion kuna, did you say that, that's 17 billion kuna, you left out loans for the development of the university 800 million, and even if you counted a little, there's 20 billion kuna missing, so do you know how many 20 billion dollars? And you're talking about the surplus, so you're not embarrassed, so you can sell it to someone, but you can't sell it to me, and my goal is as an expert to show the citizens how much you manipulate the data and you claim that we're in a surplus. Furthermore, what is still to be said here, and what the state audit is saying at the end of the day, says the state audit finds, some data from the financial reports differ from the data from the data from the report on the implementation of the state budget because according to the rules for their collection, a different methodology has been found that there are certain wrong statements in the financial reports, be careful, so this is, it is just a terrible, simply man can't believe it, but it's my job to tell the citizens. Now, which is interesting in this series of manipulations of financial indicators, incorrect data, political structures since the '90s until today have ruled on debt, every year the ministers are not right, you say a decrease in public debt, so as you can say, 2014 was about 273 billion kuna, according to your data, or the CNB, you say exactly according to theirs, it's 298, so how can you say that it's shrinking, but you're relatively relative to GDP, so whoever's asking you about GDP growth is incorrect anyway, I've explained it to you, but I don't have time because I don't have, I didn't want to talk to another club, I'm talking down there, I'm talking to you from the last bench, but from here I'll fight with the truth and there's no matter, so here I's what you say and I'm frustrated that I have to say that I have to, from the end of speaking with this room, but I want to tell the truth. So here things are completely different from what you're saying. And what else you've done, you, you're borrowing the budget over the necessary amounts, over the real needs, so you're turning it into next year's deposits, you're paying interest, so I guess you're some economy doctor, my colleague. Please don't, be on the side of the truth, comment on the data the right way. So that's why you're the finance minister to defend the truth, the debt of the state budget has grown for years, it's been growing all the time, I said it came to 298 billion kuna, and that's living truth. But you know what's interesting? No one brings here, not just you, but this ruling majority, but no opposition, no one questions why you pay 9 billion kunas from the budget, out of expenditures, banks and pension funds management companies, no one questions it, and increase your salary by 6 miserable% to doctors and nurses, so fight it, fight it, fight it to the blood, instead of 9 billion on interest, I'm telling you how I came to HS can be paid up to 4 billion, 5 billion saved, but you won't, you're taking off for some 300 million and you're petting our eyes that this is a historic move for you and your government, you know. It's the truth you see, it's the truth, so let's talk about it like that. So when we come to the next government, we're going to study all this, and then you're going to explain certain items, you're not going to say that you didn't know the information, are you? And in conclusion, the message to the citizens, the respected pensioners, your pension is compromised, and I have to be openings, and if it isn't, then you'll get a church girl, and then you still, many of you vote for these same people, and don't cry when you hug your grandchildren when you go abroad. By reducing VAT on food, you have achieved nothing but increasing imports of the same food products because now traders with a higher margin are able to import or take more, so 0 points. I'm going to stop here, reduce the public debt by transforming the second pension stake and saving that 90 billion kuna, and I'm going to help you with that because it's a common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164416	The first line has Mrs. Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164417	My colleague Lovrinović, how you're not embarrassed to talk like that when you've drawn up any budget without just thinking about yourself. This man here has to take care of the entire system and the nurses and the doctors and you university professors who make extra money, so isn't this the kind of thing you're uncomfortable talking about? What you've said is how you reduce a country's rating, how you drown your own state into something that doesn't need to be done, and how there's unrest between people, where these same people don't trust any institutions. You're not ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164418	Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164419	Dear fellow Peric, I expected you to make an argument, you defend the other party, and it's nice to me, so I know you're emotionally performing, defending the finance minister, your government, and you have to do it, but colleagues of Peric are defending the country with the truth, not the lies, you understand, and I've made the arguments, you haven't answered any of my arguments, but you've learned all of them, let's say how many votes I have, which is why I call on the citizens to wipe you out in the next elections. And we will do everything, I invite all people, all citizens in Croatia, especially you who do not go out to my people's elections, 45% of you, come out dear people, yours, your voice is too strong, golden, to finally blow this swim policy off the political stage and make Croatia go the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164420	Thank you very much. Just two words. Mr. Lovrinović is here as a representative, is he a professor, is it a plumber that it's quite all the same and that's why we won't take that as an argument and I would beg at least. And Mr. Lovrinović, let's not make an election campaign, I mean, let's not make a pre-election campaign on the replica. Let's go together. Let's move on. Mr. Scibola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164421	Thank you, Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr. Lovrinovic can agree with the good part of your debate and they say they don't have money for nurses, they say they don't have any teachers, but exactly what you said, when you need to reform the second pension column, then they're pretending to be deaf. And why is that? Banks should be resented, and they will not be resented by banks and we see it in a million cases so far. Here's what we saw about the Swiss franc, I'm asking the minister if you're going to punish the banks now when the Supreme Court's ruling came that they were working against the law, he says we can't interfere with the judiciary, and it's clear that there's no interference in the judiciary, the judiciary said the banks were working against the law, and now it's a policy move, and now the legislative power is on the move. But normally they won't mind banks because they're deeply dependent on these foreign banks and so they say they don't have any money here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164422	Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164423	Thank you, fellow Scybola, for this comment and question, so you see that they are not here to defend the citizens' interest you understand, so they are here to defend the interests of financial oligarchy and they do it well. This is why the finance minister would not launch an initiative to transform the first pension pillar he certainly understands well because he is a doctor of the economy, that 90 billion kuna to reduce public debt from 298 to practically 218 billion kuna, from 78 to 55% and we will be the best, among the 2.3 best countries in public debt, but they will not be against banks and pension insurance companies. And on the other hand, what they're still doing here, but when it comes to increasing the wages to nurses, doctors, specialists, teachers, teachers, and they're not going to be there, that's how these structures are managed, take from the pensioners, don't give to the workers, the educators, the medical staff, but put your pockets to the banks. It's politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164424	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Now it's Mr. Damjan Vucelic, who will have an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164425	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Maric, each year you bring us one and the same report here, which is no different than the last year's reports. We're all here, and the citizens, when they see your statistics, they think they live in state-class honey and milk, beautiful and beautiful. All the citizens who are watching this now who have been watching you today must feel like they've now raised their standard of living after your speech, probably think they may not be so poor anymore, maybe think they deserve more, which they deserve. You talked today about how everything is growing, GDP is growing, profits are growing from all sources, the whole of Croatia is growing. The fact is, nothing grows in your analysis. I'll touch the state agency, i.e. State Audit Office. The State Audit Office is really doing its job very well, here, good for him. But it's not the office's job for him to dig deep and investigate the crime that's going on in state-owned companies. An excellent example of how you've been robbing us for decades and how you've been pulling money out of the state budget is the Brodosplit company. Mr. Fatty's owner's company. In February 2018, the restructuring programme 2013-2018 was completed by which it had to. 14 ships were to be built in the first 27 months, each year after 6 to 7 ships. Now, today, we know that these ships have not been built, those 30 ships from that 5-year program haven't been built. That money is still being given without the ships being built, you were also warned by the Croatian Shipbuilding-Jadranbrod expert service, even in 60 monthly reports. The State Audit Office also told you that money is being spent on purpose in 5 of its annual reports. Do you have any respect for those people who do this job and the reports they give you? Of course you don't. If you had, if you were a normal government, if we were in a normal country, you would immediately stop financing further shipyards. You'd launch an investigation, you'd prosecute those responsible. Gentlemen, are you aware that you are currently rejecting the Republic of Croatia's subsidisation fraud? Under the Penal Code, Art. 258. That article also regulates up to 10 years in prison for those responsible. So what are you doing? After each report, you give them more and more money. In 31.7.2018 HBOR gives new 649 million loans to Brodosplit for a starship polar cruise. In his books, Brodosplit calls that polar cruise a new construction of 487 or a new 487. In fact, the government has learned nothing from previous affairs with Mr. Debeljak and this is particularly visible from that 5-year restructuring programme. Not that, not that this government didn't learn anything, but it ordered HBOR to get involved in the job. At the time, we also had a strike of hungry oil workers, cheated oil workers. Instead of the government helping them, instead of sending the money to Pula, that 649 million went to Marshall Islands at Mr. Fatty's offshore firm. His own company and he's building his own ship with our own money. And what's worse is that the state still put state guarantees on that ship, so we'll pay for it if it doesn't end. Imagine. Well, you know all that. Has the HBOR administration ever wondered why you gave that kind of money, I repeat, 649 million to one firm on Marshall's islands that doesn't even build ships? Why is it not an expert body, meaning Croatian Shipbuilding-Jadranbrod, did not participate in the construction of i.e. In the process of observing the construction of this entire ship? Do you spend your resources on purpose? Do you know that they are allowed to do so on all the documents signed? Mr. Fat Boy didn't even let that expert into the mall. He didn't give them any documents. Is it possible that Mr. Fatty doesn't respect Croatian laws? That he's simply above Croatian laws? And why he's avoiding control, ask yourself that question. Is it possible he won't finish that ship, like he didn't even finish these 30 ships? Keep in mind that it is said in Split that Mr. Debeljak bought both the police and the judiciary and journalists and prosecutors not to investigate the subject. That's what they say in Split. What about the crime of abuse of position and authority? Isn't it normal to ask the HBOR Management Board, but also the HBOR Supervisory Board what's going on? And on that HBOR Supervisory Board, there are six ministers, six ministers of your government. Six ministers who know everything. Six ministers who know how to work against the law. And that is why, Mr. Maric, I am ashamed of this government of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of giving money to nurses, children in lunch schools, for medicines to children, irrelevantly, you give millions, hundreds of millions to your partners. You're embarrassing us all over the world. It's not a matchbox ship, Mr. Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164426	Two replicas, ma'am, are they before or now? From before? There's no replica now. All right, I'm sorry. Then let's move on, Mr. Stjepan Curaj, he's gone. He's losing his right. Mr. Ante Babic, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Ivan Pernar, he's gone, he's losing his right. Mr. Josip Boric, he's got it and he doesn't lose his right. Here you go. He's pulling. Mr. Branko Bacic. He's pulling. You want a final? Final word, Mr. Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164427	Here I would, thank the well-respected Vice-President HS, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs who are still here in the assembly, here's just thanks for the debate, for the comments, for the suggestions, for the questions, I think it was constructive, there were others, and some others, but we won't be too much referencing on them, what I was trying to present today and show how this HS voted the Budget Act, all in accordance with this and methodological and in any other way to present to the Croatian public and to you the achievement of the state budget in 2018 and in the first half of 2019, the trends that are visible and which are positive, so I think that I will always speak here and among the Croatian public very openly and clearly not hiding certain problems and challenges, but also pointing out certain things that have happened as such positive, so that we can count out that as far as we are responsible for the reasons of public security. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164428	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164429	Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 and Proposal for an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2018 The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on: Proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018, please vote. I find that the majority of votes 76 for, 19 abstentions and 16 against the adoption of an annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. In accordance with the provisions of Art. 111. The Budget Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget proposes to adopt the following decisions: First, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters financial plan for 2018, please vote. So, I find that most of the votes are 76 for, 19 abstentions and 15 against the decision has been made, so let's go to decision No. 2., it is a decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2018, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 79 for, 17 abstentions and 15 against the decision-making. Thirdly, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2018, please vote. And this decision was made, 78 votes for, 22 abstentions, 13 against. The fourth decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2018, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 78 for, 19 abstentions and 17 against the decision-making. Fifthly, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Centre for Restructuring and Sales for 2018, please vote. Most of the votes 78 for, 20 abstentions and 16 against were made and this decision was made. And we are going to the sixth decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the 2018 HZZO financial plan, please vote. Most of the vote 78 for, 15 abstentions and 20 against, the decision was also made. On the basis of Art. The 30th century is 4th century. The law on fiscal responsibility and the Art. 1st century 2. The regulations on drawing up and submitting a declaration of fiscal responsibility and a report on the application of fiscal rules, the Financial and State Budget Committee proposes that HS adopt an annual report on the application of the fiscal rules for 2018, please vote. I find that most votes are 78 for, 22 abstentions and 13 against the annual report adopted on the application of the fiscal rules for 2018.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164626	Because, if we had one situation, it's irretrievable, isn't it? Is he coming? [[Here he comes. He's coming to you.]] Okay, [[Intruder: It's here, it's somewhere, now it's coming]] There they are, well, we won't have to wait for anything, but we'll move on to the next item of the agenda. - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 The applicant shall be the State Audit Office pursuant to the provisions of Art. 19. [[There they are, there they are, there they are.]] The State Audit Office Act. The debate, if you will allow me to speak, was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The government delivered an opinion. Does the reporter want to give an additional explanation? She's with us. Nedeljka Rogosic, Deputy Chief State Auditor, please welcome Mrs. Rogosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164627	The State Audit Office has carried out an audit of the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. The report on the audit carried out was submitted by HS within the time limit provided for, the audit was carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Audit Office and the international standards of the Supreme Audit Institutions. The main objective of the revision was to express an opinion on the truthfulness and reality of the annual report on the implementation of the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018. The audit has verified whether the data shown in the annual report are true and accurate, whether the revenues and expenditures are carried out in accordance with the winning budget, the borrowing and provision of guarantees in 2018, and the use of budgetary valves have been verified. On the basis of the risk assessment, the following areas of audit, preparation and implementation of the state budget, accounting framework and reporting and revenue and expenditure, the financing account and state guarantees, and the budgetary stock. In addition, it has been verified whether the accounts and recommendations made in the previous audits have been carried out. For the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 This appropriation is intended to cover: The following facts influenced the opinion, the transfer of funds between budgetary users was not properly demonstrated on the intended accounts of the accounting plan, and therefore, in the context of the expenditure, transfers of more than 100.6 million kuna from the transfers made under the revenue were shown. As regards the granting of support to employers in the amount of HRK 17.8 million prescribed by the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, they are not shown in the context of expenditure but as a reduction of income from pension insurance contributions as the provisions of the State Budget Implementation Act for 2018. they do not comply with the provisions of the Pension Insurance Act. In addition, the data on the payment of claims by the changeover of mutual claims and liabilities of the Ministry of Finance and local units amounting to 22.4 million kuna have not been reported, so the receipts and expenditures related to those breakthroughs are less shown for that amount. Also in the report on borrowing on the domestic and foreign money and capital markets, the debt of the state budget was shown at a lower amount for 803.8 million kuna, as there were no data on loans from the University of Zagreb, Osijek, Split, Rijeka and Dubrovnik. The State Audit Office also drew attention to the dynamics of the withdrawal of funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds for the financial period 2014-2020, as it was estimated that the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds was not implemented by the planned dynamics. The attention to the difficulties of the health system and the level of obligations of hospital health institutions that can affect future expenditures of the State budget has again been drawn up. In addition to the above, it is also pointed out that the facts relating to unclear and non-compliant regulations or insufficiently regulated, the regulation of certain areas of business, both the budget and the budget beneficiaries. The observed lack of regulation concerns, among other things, the determination of the competence to decide on the availability of movable assets worth more than £200,000 and the determination of the source of funding for excise duties intended to finance public roads and railway infrastructures, as well as the revenues from excise duties on tobacco products intended for HZZO. In addition to the report on the implementation of the State budget for the State budget, financial reports and consolidated financial reports shall be drawn up. Certain data from financial reports differs from data from data from the report on the implementation of the State budget, as a different methodology is applied according to the rules for drawing them up. It has been found that there are also certain wrong statements in the financial reports. The State Audit Office also checked the implementation of the mandates and recommendations made in earlier audits. A significant number or more than 83% of orders and recommendations have been re-translated or implemented and 12% of orders and recommendations have been partially implemented. For all identified irregularities and failures, the State Audit Office has given orders and recommendations. Our assessment is that the Ministry of Finance has taken action to ensure reliable, accurate and transparent information in the Annual report on the implementation of the State budget and that the implementation of the tasks and recommendations given can contribute to further increasing transparency in the use of budgetary resources. What you would like to point out in the end, you know that a new State Audit Act has been adopted according to which the audit entities are obliged within 60 days after their final report is delivered to deliver a plan for the implementation of the tasks and recommendations. The Ministry of Finance submitted a plan in accordance with the law and we were able to verify that most of these recommendations were already implemented, and a number of recommendations for which implementation deadlines were set in the next period are ongoing. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would like to thank you for your attention, if there is any.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164628	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rogosic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I open the debate, the first Mrs Grozdana Peric to speak on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164629	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues of the deputy, dear colleagues here are the State Audit Report for the implementation of the State Budget for 2018, which the HDZ Club will fully accept and support. What is important to say is that this report, for this report, has been given a conditional opinion, this conditional opinion is in certain paragraphs and the reasons why it was given both in the report and in the report itself. What is very important to say is that the Ministry of Finance has already, and especially now, as Mrs. Rogosic has already said, made some changes, implemented recommendations or are under way, changes themselves, so that sometimes it depends on, in fact, removing certain findings and individual observations from the findings, it is also conditional on amendments to certain laws and regulations, so some recommendations cannot be changed immediately, but are then introduced into the procedure. What is important to say when we talk about the finding itself, some colleagues all of what is recorded here as certain drawbacks indicate as some catastrophic data, and they want to say that everything that has been shown in the execution is neither credible nor true, and that here the State Audit Office can and can testify that they could have come to everything and that it is true, and that as we have examples and in the local self-government that something is not recorded on this or that Cont must be placed as an observation, and then it makes us correct certain records, and in this way correct ourselves, alone. It is also very important to say that legal regulations where these disproportionateities which you are here in the very observations are between the HZMO records mean income from contributions and HZZ, and then also the record of expenditures themselves and possible, the method of recording is certainly something that needs to be improved in the accounting system itself, but what is evident is that there is a huge disproportionateness between the contributions and the costs themselves, or that part of the costs is being met from the basic sources of funding. It is also evident that there are some discrepancies or not showing certain companies as budgetary users at present, but it is something which is a process or happens depending on the conditions arising from the law itself, and it is normal to then form over the years, and then the system of records changes in the way that they become or, or disappear as budgetary users, so it is not something that is incorrect but it is, it comes from the very Budget Act itself, and it is he who dictates the status of individual users. When we talk about some cost-type records, salaries for primary school employees, there and secondary schools, you are there in one of the remarks that at the same time the cost has been shown both in the state budget and in the budgets of local self-government, normally that this multiplys the cost of statistics and that on the one hand it is necessary to be a transfer, and on the other hand, if the founding units of local or regional self-government are then appropriate and regular to then be a cost in their budgets, and here it is just a transfer from the state budget. When we also talk about individual borrowing records or loans, it is undeniable that in certain books, whether they are universities or hospitals and so on, there are records of how much this credit is, and here there is still a need for coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the users concerned. It is important to say that the state budget has greatly improved its records, that it is also expected that both the needs set by the State Statistics Office and Eurostat, as well as the methodology that is being improved, and now we expect a new amendment to the Budget Law, which will edit some more items. I think a major shift has been made, and in this cooperation of the State Audit Office and the Ministry of Finance is very visible, they see significant results which ultimately shows that both the reliability of our data and those you have recorded here and showed, that they are much better and that here is what I wanted and at the very session that in some subsequent report, this report is yours and unconditionally, which would then be proof that we are going in the right direction. So, nothing is hidden, nothing is illegally done, there are certain, certain weaknesses that will change in walking, I say in accordance with both the legislation itself, and normally that all of this takes a certain distance of time because you can't change everything in one year, or in that year, you will certainly only reflect it in the next report. Here, thank you very much and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164630	Thank you, too. Now it's an individual debate, and the first is Mr. Ivan Lovrinović, he's gone, he's losing his right, the second is Mr. Ivan Schuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164631	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ma'am. Deputy State Auditor with Associates, in fact, I've only come to the hearing about one thing because I simply want to comment on it with you because I think that this is what it's written with you is practically very questionable about conductivity, and I'm going to try to explain here. It shall therefore be subject to the audit referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article, including expenditure on staff in primary and secondary schools. Now, look, you're talking about this going to help local self-government units, but you have another problem. Collective negotiation and all, carried out by the government of the Republic of Croatia, not units of local self-government. Therefore, you have one big problem here, in financing primary and secondary schools to larger cities, 30 of them, the possibility of being founders of primary schools, and the county is the founders of primary schools for smaller units of local self-government and secondary schools. In addition, a certain percentage of income tax is left to those units on behalf of funding, and in order to determine actually equalise the possibility of funding, each year in the second month, the Ministry of Education proposes standards for calculating this, and therefore determines the means of balancing, so that is what is financed as aid from the state budget towards local self-government units. We have salaries here, so city and county representatives don't negotiate any salaries with schools, don't negotiate with unions, those only trade unions that negotiate with about education, that's preschool education, preschool age, so full negotiation, here we have the negotiation process, we have a strike announcement for October 10th, by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Now, look, if this were to go down as you say here, then we come up with a legal conflict, how can the government of the Republic of Croatia do collective bargaining for someone who doesn't pay his salary. However, if it is run in such a way as it is now run, then the Government of the Republic of Croatia is the one who pays those salaries, practically through cities and counties only goes through the transmission or transfer of these funds and the full collective payment, the establishment of the basics, the signing of the border collective agreements, don't forget fellows and colleagues, these border collective agreements are very important and if I see what they are like in protest, then it would be clear to you why I am saying what I am saying because if we're just going to go so easily over the fact that it should be recorded in the state budget as a transfer of assistance to local self-government units, then tomorrow in some court dispute, whether a union or someone who is dissatisfied with pay, can initiate a court procedure that someone has unauthorizedly signed a collective contract or something. So, there's some things that you have to legally coordinate then it's no problem, then it can go like this but it just doesn't work, someone would have to pass on some powers to someone, so the reverse process would have to be that units of local self-government if in their budget they're going to register it as a cost of pay and in the state budget they'd have to sign up for help to local self-government, then practically local self-government units would have to transfer powers to the Ministry of Education and actually to GSV that are doing negotiations or the team that determines that they're negotiating on its behalf to pay their salaries. So why would he make such a concept? First, we wanted to keep the same salaries in the entire Republic of Croatia for all, regardless of the development of the unit of local self-government and thus manage a single wage policy. The second thing, in the budget of the Ministry of Education, there is clearly a position, a cost of wages and material costs so much and so much. I'm saying, I answered the debate because by reading what you wrote here, I'm practically seeing one inconsistencies of this whole thing together, here it is, the unions announced the October 10th strike. Who are they strikein' against? According to what it says here, we should strike against cities and counties and they strike against the government because they have a collective contract with the government, they have a signed city contract, and the government has also determined by its decision the amount of material rights, which are your Christmases, regressions and everything else, it was determined by the government, not by the local self-government unit. If this will be treated as aid to local self-government units in the government, then such decisions would have to be made by the founders of the representative bodies, but they were just about to avoid happening because you saw now that politics has little to do with certain things, then someone says someone will pay someone something like the Mayor of Rijeka and the Mayor of the Primorje-Gorski gave a guarantee of a loan to Jadrolinija and that they pawned themselves and everything they had and couldn't guarantee it, no. Well, I'd like to make a clear comment here because I'm saying, we can create a legal vacuum and a problem, and in particular you haven't heard the first part of the budget debate when some colleagues have been convincing about some of that thinking, no, but I'm just telling you, look, people are watching TV and when someone says that I'm saying it and I'm saying that that's how it is, a simple man says, look, these guys are smudged, they've messed up, the state review has written that it's not so, so it's precisely because they don't get involved here in the house needlessly, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164632	Thank you very much, Mr. Shuker, here I will try to answer this question, we, when we were doing the audit, analyzed the recording of business diameters and the correct statement of expenditure, found that the expenditures for employees of the state budget were higher by 7 billion in the state budget and that they were less, for this reason we have proposed that the records of these expenditures be made on the aid account for the accuracy of recording and showing the expenditure of employees of the state budget. We also commented and discussed the possibility with our colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, and we received from them an indication that this will happen in 2019 and that there will be no problems. ... The State Audit Office has not disputed the rights that the Government... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164633	We can't turn it into... Would I have you, ma'am? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rogosic asked you to take five minutes as a proposing and come here and answer questions, okay? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164634	I apologize, I did not know this protocol when I needed to answer questions, but we did not dispute in our audit of the right that the government approved to finance material expenditure for primary and secondary school employees but merely the reality of showing the data in the state budget. If we talk about the data presented in the financial reports which are other forms of reporting that we have also talked about and which we have not expressed our opinion on, these reports include expenditure on primary and secondary school employees properly recorded. Just as expenditure in certain ministries has been properly shown, but if we look at staff expenditures at the level of the state budget, there is a mix of expenditures for employees of the state budget and part of the expenditure relating to primary and secondary school employees. Our proposal has been such and the Ministry of Finance has agreed, and as far as we have seen through this statement, regarding the delivery of an action plan on the implementation of the given tasks and recommendations, the implementation of this order and the recommendation is ongoing. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164635	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs. President. The voter has a replica of Mr. Shucker's exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164636	I'm not a financial or accounting expert, but I think that, yes, that you've given a good warning of something that could lead to possible confusion, and I'm not sure that I've fully understood the intensity of the state's audit towards the Ministry of Finance, then also to the Ministry of Education, but I hope that's still going to be announced. I similarly warned when the powers were passed on, although it was not the financial powers of the state administration's office to shut down the counties, you have through the border collective agreements negotiated by the state commission to compare technological surpluses that function from representatives of the union and representatives of the ministry from another level and their branches by county where we defacto part of the powers now to the counties for what was actually negotiated between the government of the Republic of Croatia or the negotiating teams of the Government on the one hand and the trade union on the other, it is similar to this analogy to the transfer of powers with the fact that there are no significant financial resources here, I think there will be financial repercussions, but not in this first pro.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164637	Thank you very much. Mr. Shucker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164638	Thank you very much. I only know that unions in primary and secondary schools have exclusively negotiated with the Government of the Republic of Croatia,... Now, if we negotiate one basis, negotiate one Christmas card, one regress, if we now claim that these salaries are paid out of local self-government units, as we do, we would have to practically order them to pay it, so there must be some provision in the law that says that the negotiations and the rest will be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia providing funds, then it does a downcast because I think employees in primary and secondary schools belong to the public services of the Republic. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when we talk about the total number of employees, they're by no means local employees, by no means, because primary school is not a matter of local self-government, so I'm talking about something that's a business at the state level. Now how are we gonna do that? accounting laid, that's the second pair of shoes [[Intruder: Time]] [[Intruder: Time, time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164639	Okay, and now the individual debate is going to be held by mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164640	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Deputy Chief State Auditor with Associates, colleagues and colleagues, and in this report on the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian State budget for 2018. You have processed, I would also say quantitatively and by quality means of withdrawing funds from the European Funds. In fact, you wrote that the situation is not satisfactory and that, among other things, the causes of the long duration of the procurement process of goods, works and services financed by these funds should be determined. We will all agree and there are high expectations from these funds because they are the ones that drive both employment and investment and overall economic progress. This sentence of yours has already been read by the particularly opposition MPs, using this for even greater and stronger criticism of both the Ministry and the Government, and I would have added the part which they were very happy to skip, that great progress was made during 2018. compared to 2017, so we have e.g. The Ministry of Regional Development, when we look at the implementation of the 2018 budget, notes an increase of more than 32% in 2017. Regional competitiveness and urban development increase of 80%, operational competitiveness and cohesion programme 2017-2020 in 2018 has an increase of 162%, a European project co-financing fund of 235%, and it is good for our citizens to know and know that for example. We are still available with all reports from August 31st, probably in which day we will already have a report from September 30th that of the total EUR 10.7 billion available has been announced with, I say 31 August 99.36%, competition worth EUR 10.6 billion, 74% contract, paid 26.7% and received 23%. As for progress and the desire to withdraw these funds even more quickly, I believe that the next days of regional development and the EU funds organised in Sibenik will come this weekend, that we will reach new conclusions on these days and those meetings, in which way we will make those funds more available and make it possible to withdraw and reach the users as quickly as possible. The EU and EU Funds Assembly Committee on Regional Development and Funds also organise a thematic session, an analysis of the current situation and proposals to improve the implementation of EU-funded projects. I am sure that these, these funds are a major driver of development and that they will contribute greatly to the next period when we have a report for the implementation of the 2019 budget. that the indicators are even better, that as we could say today we have positive movements in the domestic economy, that we have, that the share of public debt in GDP is reduced again, that we have the volume of construction works being increased at an annual level of almost 10% in the first half of 2019, of course tourist numbers and the number of nights of tourists has been increased again, that incomes from value added value have increased even though there has been a reduction in VAT rates for live animals, fresh chilled meat, fish and the like, and that for the first time, the Republic has recorded a negative interest rate for us to use these funds based on your observations, suggestions, and all of us who have had experience in the work on EU projects, power to get new and legislative proposals and to amend the way of work so that these funds are as much more accessible to our citizens, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164641	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We welcome colleagues from the State Audit with the Deputy State Auditor and move to the last item of the agenda today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164642	Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 The applicant is the State Audit Office, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the following conclusion. A report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2018 is hereby adopted. Let's vote please. I find that most of the votes were 104 for, 3 abstentions and 2 against the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164643	and we move to the last item of the agenda today: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, second reading, P.Z. No. 621 The proposed act is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and Article 172. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So it's the final bill of law, in the second reading. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, in other words, that any amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance want to take the opening statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164644	Thank you, well-respected Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. As is said, you are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector, otherwise the debate on the draft law was concluded on 12 April and the Croatian Parliament concluded at the 12th session held on 9 May which adopted the draft law. All comments and proposals were sent to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law and, consequently, at its 179th session held on 19 September, the Government laid down this final proposal for a law. Otherwise, the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector has been in force since July 2015, bringing the legislative framework in the Republic of Croatia in line with best European and international practices in the field of the development of internal control systems and internal audits as part of the internal control system. The purpose of the internal control system itself is to improve governance in order to achieve general objectives such as, for example, the conduct of operations in a regular, ethical, economical, effective and effective manner, compliance with laws and other regulations, plans, programmes, procedures, the protection of funds from losses caused by poor management, unwarranted spending and use and protection against other forms of irregularities, and to strengthen responsibility for the successful achievement of business objectives and the reliability and comprehensiveness of financial and other reports. In the largest part, the Law reached the original objectives relating to better management of budgets, more effective internal audit and strengthening preventive controls in the public sector, however, the area of irregularities has not been precisely regulated and there are practical difficulties in applying the law in relation to this area. It was also observed by the State Audit Office, which was carried out in its report on the revision of the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2017, dedicated a specific chapter in the area of irregularities and the taking of measures against irregularities. This report shows that of the 624 applicants, the submission of an irregularity report, on a yearly report for 2016 by the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision, was delivered by 546 or 73%, while the annual report for 2017 was submitted by 428 of the total 623 or 67%, respectively, the State Office for Audit proposed that the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector be extended, i.e. to provide for infringement provisions for failing to provide the report on irregularities to the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision. In addition, the State Audit Office has also ordered the adoption of an appropriate regulation laying down criteria for the appointment of a person for irregularities, obligations and treatment, persons for irregularities and the manner and time limits for reporting irregularities. Following recommendations from the State Audit Office, this final draft law aims to improve the area related to irregularities and to further supplement certain provisions of the laws which have shown shortcomings in practice. In addition to prescribing infringement provisions for failing to provide a report on irregularities through the proposed amendments and additions to the law, the area related to the appointment of persons for irregularities is further regulated, thus creating a presumption for the adoption of the relevant regulation, since the applicable law does not give a sufficiently clear commitment to the appointment of persons for irregularities. With these imports, this final proposal for the law makes it clearer to define the appointment of persons for irregularities and irregularities. Irregular persons shall be named at the level of ministries and other state bodies of the level of division and at the level of units of local, regional or regional self-government, the more precisely defined role of persons for irregularities, the persons for irregularities will receive reports of irregularities from employees, citizens or anonymous applicants, or where irregularities are not identified during the competent conduct of state institutions. It will assess the basis of the applications received and propose a way of handling and prepare an annual pooled report on irregularities. The deadlines for the delivery of the report on irregularities and infringements are prescribed in this respect and the adoption of a regulation laying down the obligations and the way in which irregularities reported or detected, criteria, content, decision-making for the appointment of persons for irregularities and the manner of reporting of irregularities in the management of the institution’s assets are laid down. It is also important to stress that this final draft law provides for the protection of employees of the institution who report irregularities, prescribe and guarantee rights in accordance with the law governing the protection of applicants of irregularities, in particular the Law on the Protection of Notifiers, which entered into force on 1 July of this year. Therefore, the very application of the final draft of the law as well as the adoption of an appropriate regulation is expected to improve the understanding of the area related to irregularities and the quality and efficiency of actions against irregularities both from the lawholders and from the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision. In addition to those amendments, certain amendments have been made and certain provisions of the applicable law have been developed as mentioned in the first reading, only for a short time, concerns provisions on application bonds in the sense that they comply with the new Fiscal Responsibility Act, more precisely defined that the responsible person and institution should ensure the management of the most significant risks that may affect the achievement of the objectives and strategic and other plans. Changes have been made to the deadline for obtaining the appointment of an authorised internal auditor related to the date of start of education and not to the date of deployment at the workplace, thus correcting the existing provision in such a way that all are now placed in an equal position and may continue to extend the time limit for... the recommendation of internal audit only once but no longer within 6 months. but depending on the time needed to spend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is also determined that the Ministry of Finance prepares, the finance minister submits for the adoption of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's annual report on the system of internal controls in the public sector. In relation to the course of the first reading bill, in order to improve its provisions, in the text of the final draft law... certain nomotechnical additions of articles on 9th, 13, 15th and 17th basis, in accordance with the observations of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] During the debate in the draft law in the Croatian Parliament, certain clarifications were then requested in relation to the role of the person for irregularities, how to collect and submit reports of irregularities as well as clarifications on the possible collapsing of the provisions of the Law on the Management of Irregular Management of Irregular Protection Act, which I had just mentioned and which was already in force since 1 July of this year. In this respect, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice as the competent Ministry for the implementation of that law, provisions of the final draft law have been developed in such a way that the transitional and final provisions of the final draft of the law have been introduced, i.e. provisions which avoid possible overlaps with the provisions of that law or are prescribed. If the competent ministries and other state bodies at the level of division and units of local, regional (area) self-government are required to have confidentiality under the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, a confidential person is also a person for irregularities in accordance with... By law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the event that an irregularity person is also a confidential person, the protection of the applicant of irregularities shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Notifiers of Irregularity. In addition, a provision has been introduced if the Head of the Institution has already appointed a person for irregularities under the Law on the Internal Financial Control System in the Public Sector, it is the law of 2006 and under the Internal Control System Act, and that institution is obliged to have a confidential person in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Reporters of Irregularity, on the date of entry into force of this Act, a confidential person also becomes a person for irregularities and has obligations of a person for irregularities prescribed by this Act. We believe that these doubts have been fully resolved during the debate in this House of Commons, and we believe that this provision will now be fully clear for further application. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164645	Thank you. You've got one replica from Mrs. Devereaux. Jeckov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164646	I thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament. Mr Secretary of State, I'm going to refer to article 35, which refers to changes in fact to deadlines for implementing recommendations that have therefore been changed, and I'm interested in your opinion, do you think that this is going to achieve the expected outcome?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164647	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164648	Thank you very much for asking. So so far, the deadline has been set specifically in terms of one six months. and additional months as agreed, it has now been shown in practice that, as a rule, the deadlines set by the supervisory authority should be laid down by the provisions without cooperation with the body which has been supervised that these deadlines may be unrealistic. Of course these deadlines will not be unreasonable in terms of determining an infinite time limit, so it is also the purpose of managing the internal control system at the level of each obligor... Yes, yes, clearly, in agreement with the audit. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So we believe that this is the kind of remark that was usually made in the work of the National Audit Service that comes to us in the supervision of any obligor... the audits harmonised as it is asked by the one who is to carry out the audit whether he can carry out it within a certain period of time and shall be agreed on a time limit for its implementation which, of course, is a reasonable time limit, here is a thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164649	Thank you very much. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's Mrs. First. Dear Vranjš, who will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164650	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the proposing representatives, the honourable parliamentary representatives and the MPs. In front of the HDZ Club here, I am talking about the law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector, only this law neither in the first reading nor in this one draws any interest because most people who are not engaged in the system of control and audit and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, who do not work in public institutions, are less aware of these concepts but what we see in practice is very much of the people who are both fiscally and responsible or who are appointed as persons of irregularity, sometimes creating headaches, confusions and only this period that preceded the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws has shown certain shortcomings in the practice that we have already mentioned. So this law, or amendments and additions to the laws, is also passed on to the proposal of the State Audit Office, which it considers should also be prescribed in breach of the provisions, but also what is important, that the criteria for the appointment of persons and everything else should be laid down in order to make this law clearer. Of course, it is very important to observe with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and what would be well pointed out, which is regulated by the draft final proposal for this law, that bonds of designation of persons for irregularities and the concept of irregularities be more clearly defined, more specifically defined as the role of persons for irregularities, deadlines for the delivery of reports on irregularities, infringements, as I have already mentioned, and the adoption of regulations which will be more detailed in the area related to irregularities. Moreover, certain provisions of the applicable law have been developed, meaning that the provisions are in line with the obligations of application with the new Fiscal Responsibility Act, it is more precisely defined that the responsible person and institutions should ensure the management of the most significant risks that can affect the creation of objectives and strategic other plans. This obligation to adopt a specific risk management strategy has been deleted, and it seems to me that by 2015, we liked to prescribe that something must be adopted strategies for everything, and now we are still going towards the need for as few strategies as possible and that they should be clearer and the other documents should be sourced from what is said in the strategies. It is also determined that the Ministry of Finance prepares, the finance minister submits to the Government a united report on the internal control system in the public sector and the Government adopts this by 31 July of the current year for the previous year and this deadline for the acquisition of the knowledge of the authorised internal auditor is linked to the start date of education and cannot be longer than 2 years. What was still seen in the practice that simply individual legal persons or most legal persons who are founders of the local self-government unit are in a problem that they are not aware that they do not know whether they are bonds of application of this law, when we look at the Register of legal entities that are mandatory,... Updated in the 3rd month. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In 2019, we now see one part of the person and when we talked in the first reading, it was said that some 73% if I am not mistaken in 2017 had just filed or implemented the obligations under this law and on the other hand if I say that 73% of those taxpayers who are prescribed 6 and in that list we see the meaning of these obligors, then the legal person under it writes that they are all and who are not on that list and who are the founders of one or more units of local self-government, the question of whether we know exactly what these bonds are so that in practice creates confusion, perhaps in the resolution itself it is clear but I believe that in the following educations and regulations it will be clearer but we can notice it, and in the previous debate we have talked about European funds, a lot of legal persons under the influence of the new regulations, measures, the programs we implement from the EU, so we have a host of legal agencies that are so that the entrepreneurial centres, so that one part of them in the same form is not necessarily necessary, but we know the same amount of the same amount of the same amount of the same type of the wrong, which is not applicable, and the same thing. We also see at public institutions, spinning that when we examine them, some have people for irregularities, some don't, we know that there are people in them who are other professions, who don't just deal with, I don't know, financial management, control, etc. Things so that there is definitely even stronger education, and I believe that this law will be an incentive to say on behalf of the HDZ Club that we will support this law, but I also point out that on the ground, education is really being done to inform users because when we look at a questionnaire on fiscal responsibility, it is actually very useful to all who, whether they are bonds or not, to check all these questions and answers, what kind of documentation is in a particular legal person who has reported funds so that I think it is useful but it is very important to inform more about the taxpayers of this law so that this law is not bauk, so that it contributes to all the more successful and meaningful and economic management of public funds, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164651	Thank you, too. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Dear Jeckov, who will speak on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164652	I thank the Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate. So, before us is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Internal Control System. It is important for the discussion on this subject to point out that the management of one country's finances is a very complex and complicated process based on legitimate information which is of great importance in the decision on the use of budgetary resources. The internal financial control system and financial audit are areas that play a very large role today in the operation of state, public and other institutions. The transparency of the business of state budget beneficiaries in all areas of business activity, monitoring the flow of money, reporting in the system, with clear rules of conduct of budgetary users, is necessary to assume the creation of a stable public sector. Public money is the money of all residents of the state and it is therefore extremely important to know what money is financed with, which are the programmes of activities for which money is spent, with which purpose and ultimately, in what way. Hence, the particular interest and the regulation of spending is a clear message to the leaders of the budget users that the funds need to be used for the purpose and purpose for which they are determined and the non-compliance with such a way of doing business entails consequences or all of this constitutes the basis of a regulated system. Therefore, internal control or audit in each company is important not only as a body of repression but as a body of control or correction of potential deficiencies with a view to obtaining true, quality and reliable work reports. This aims to achieve that jobs are done only in a proper, ethical, economical, effective, effective way, so all that really should be both state and public administration. Not to mention that the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a joint annual report on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector for 2017, this report is based on statements of fiscal responsibility for which all bonds, 612 of them, have been delivered by the Ministry, the beneficiaries of the budget of the level of division, organisational classifications, counties, cities and municipalities. It was found that of the total number of debtors, 142 or 23 submitted a statement on the form given when there were no weaknesses and irregularities and 470 or 77% of them on the form which confirmed the existence of weaknesses and irregularities which did not affect the legitimate and meaningful use of the funds and the effective and effective functioning of the internal control system within the budget of the determined funds. The budget users reported the most weaknesses in the area of budget implementation or accounting and reporting, the highest number of internal audits by the budget users, 87%, expressed an opinion confirming that internal control systems are functioning at a satisfactory level but a space for further improvement has been established. Amendments and additions to the laws shall be made to improve the area related to the taking of actions against irregularities and to supplement the provisions of the laws which have shown shortcomings in practice as well. In its review report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget for 2017, the State Audit Office proposed that the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector prescribe infringement provisions for the non-compliance of the report on irregularities to the establishment unit of the Ministry of Finance in charge of budgetary supervision and order the adoption of a regulation which will lay down the criteria for the designation of a person for irregularities, obligations and the manner of handling of a person for irregularities and the manner, deadlines and reporting of irregularities. These amendments and additions to the applicable law make it clearer to define bonds of designation of persons for irregularities and the notion of irregularities of persons for irregularities are referred to at the level of ministries and other state bodies, the level of division and at the level of units of local, regional (regional) self-government. More precisely, the role of the person for irregularities is defined, in particular for irregularities for the receiving reports of irregularities from employees, citizens or anonymous applicants, or where the same ones are not identified during the competent conduct of the state institutions. The basis of the applications received and the way in which they are handled will be assessed and an annual pooled report on irregularities will be prepared. Since I've been given the answer to the question of deadlines, I thank you and the SDSS's Club of Representatives will support your proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164653	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović should speak individually, he's gone, he's losing his right. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Tomorrow morning, Thursday, October 3, 2019, we continue our work at 9:30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts. After that, the proposal for a patent law, etc., etc. The session was interrupted at 17.31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-10-02-0.u164654	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Internal Control System Act in the public sector, second reading, P.Z. No. 621, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law, please vote. I find that most votes, 78 "for" and 41 "abstained" have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Internal Control System in the public sector. Dear colleagues and colleagues good morning, we continue to work on the first item of the agenda today: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on crafts, first reading, P.Z. Number 749 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 85. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Economy, and I would now ask the proposing representative to give us an additional explanation. With us we have respected Natasha Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here's the secretary of state.
