ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129532	Okay, 9.31 a.m., I welcome all present and those who will come. The first item is: - Report on the implementation of the National Strategy and action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2017; Reports by the Government of the Republic of Croatia are based on Article 123. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? With us is State Secretary Mr Tomislav Dulibic. State Secretary at the Department of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The report shall contain the pooled data for 2017 and shall provide a comprehensive and detailed picture of the state of drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. The report presents key drug policy areas with an emphasis on the most significant trends and new developments in the area of drug and addiction issues. The drug abuse prevention policy is based on strategic objectives, reducing the need and demand for drugs and a multidisciplinary approach to the implementation of programmes aimed at preventing drug abuse and preventing drug abuse. According to the data presented, all resolution ministries have been visible, actively implementing the measures of the National Strategy and the Action Plan and have achieved satisfactory results with the existing resources. Significant steps have been taken to reduce the incidence of drug abuse and drug addiction through... Access has been made to develop new concepts of prevention of addiction and availability of disease and addiction treatment programmes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Progress is reflected in particular in the development of legal instruments and responses to the supply and demand of drugs that are in line with contemporary European legislation on drug issues. The implementation of several significant projects, including the adoption of the concept of quality standards, as criteria for funding of programmes and projects implemented by associations, the implementation of specific education and training in line with the needs detected on the ground, a series of research, as well as the strengthening of cooperation between the criminal repressive system and the treatment system, has been carried out or is under way. The work has also continued to strengthen the national drug information system set up in accordance with the standards of the European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction and has also been conducted and education activities aimed at further developing standardised methods of collecting and analysing relevant data. According to the results of the latest studies, abuse of addiction funds in general in the population of the Republic of Croatia has been consumed by 20.3% of respondents at least once in their lives. The most commonly used illegal drug in Croatia was cannabis. According to data from the Ministry of Interior during 2017, a total of 2589 crimes were recorded in 2016. 2838. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Penalty law... the use of drugs and Article 191 and the illicit production and transport of substances prohibited in sport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or 4.8% of the total number of criminal offences reported during 2017. Nine thousand 185 misdemeanors and drug abuse laws have been recorded. According to data from the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, 1000 adults were reported in 2016. In 2016, there were 232 and 93 minors, in 2016 there were 91 persons. In 2017, a new record of 11 thousand 123 seized all types of drugs was reached which was 0.16% higher than in 2016 when 11 thousand and 105 were recorded. As the last 5 years of seized plant cannabis ranged between 50% and 60% in the total number of drug seizures last year, 70% for the first time. If we look at the structure of the seized other types of drugs, the proportion of various stimulants including cocaine continue to grow. In 2017, 10 new psychoactive substances were seized in the Republic of Croatia and 21 smart shop works in the Republic of Croatia according to available data. Since 2013 there has been a trend in reducing the number of drug addicts. During 2017, there were 1344 drug addicts in the prison system, accounting for 11.86% of the total prison population in that year. According to data on the number of total people treated in 100 000 people between 15 and 64 to the counties, the most pronounced problem of opiate abuse is in Zadar County with a rate of 488.4, in the second place is Istria County with a rate of 432.8%, followed by Sibenik-Kninska, Primorje-Gorskiska, City of Zagreb, Split-Dalmatia and Dubrovnik-Neretva County while the other counties are below the Croatian average. The rate treated with opiate abuse in 2017 for the Republic of Croatia is 200.3. In 2017, there were 7157 persons in the health care system of the Mental Health Protection, Prevention and Outpatient Treatment of Dependence and Hospital, which was a minor increase of 0.7% compared to 2016 and is still a reduction compared to 2015 by 5%. Of the total treatment in 2017, 80.7% took opiates or 5773 people for taking or depending on other psychoactive substances, 19.3% were treated and it can be said that there was an increase in the number of people treated for non-opiotic addiction by 20%. The number of new people in the system of treatment increased compared to 2016 In 2017 957 people were treated for the first time in 2016 when 771 people were treated for an increase of 24.2%. According to the main asset of all the new arrivals, they are 23% opiate addicts and 77% consumables or drug addicts. According to data on gender and age treated persons with an addiction problem as well as previous years, most treated persons are male. The experimentation begins at about 16 years of age, the average age of people who first came to treatment, 26.6 years. According to the data collected in 2017, the therapeutic communities provided treatment for a total of 947 people with a problem of addiction, which compared to 2016 when 573 people were reduced by 13.3%. As regards infectious disease data, the number of people infected with HIV virus is stable, the number of people infected with hepatitis B was in decline from 2010 to 2013, after which it was shown for the first time that there was a slight growth in 2014 and a decline from 2015 to 2017. As regards hepatitis C here, a decline in the number of infected compared to 2016 was also continued with the implementation of the project of resociation of addicts from April 2007 when a resociation project was adopted by 31 December 2017, the HZZZ total carried out professional guidance and assessment of employment capacity for 1003 persons with a problem of addiction, of which 324 treated persons with a problem was included in educational programmes and 708 persons were used as an incentive for employment or achieved employment. In addition, 825 people treated for addiction problems were entitled to education on the burden of the Ministry of Science and Education and about 8900 persons were involved in some form of assistance provided by associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129534	Thank you, too. You have a few replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129535	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State, a very extensive report, the 2017 report once again to point out that there would be no confusion because when you explained this report, you are saying, there was, then, that there was no confusion, yet this has already been over the year 2018, it means 2017, and we see in the report that is extensive and what is a good report, we have no particular objections, here is point 2 of the drug legislation and crime, point 4 of prevention, point 7, drug addiction treatment, 8 of the prison system and testing, the 9th drug market. My question is simple, where is the office now? The office has moved to the Ministry of Health, and is this how the office's further function has been ensured because many have objected to this transfer precisely because it is a broad area which is not just one ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129536	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129537	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. So the 2017 report, that's the methodology of the work as it does every year when the programme is being evaluated in the following year. As for the Office of Drugs, it is attached to the HZZ as well as to most European countries, so it is located at the Institute of Public Health and we can say that it is all the same as you see, there are the same people, the same content, just changed form, so there is no imbalance in the work of the Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129538	Mr. Marko Vučetić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129539	Thank you. The problem of addiction is the social individual family financial justice since I come from Zadar County and the problem that should be present as a burning problem in Zadar County at least at the rate of addicts present. Tell me in these strategic documents of 2017-2025, what shifts do you expect and what kind of cooperation with the county authorities, institutions that will deal with drug abuse? Because as long as we talk about the integrated approaches I welcome, as long as we talk about being able to deal with the problem of addiction and not changing this sinister trend at least in the area of the county from which we come from, we still feel powerless in relation to this social family individual and here is the county problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129540	Would you like to answer? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129541	Here, thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. So, since 2007, There is a network of county drug commissions, in a new strategy it will include, there is quality cooperation, it will include fighting all addictions in the new strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129542	Thank you very much. Mr. Cellic, Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129543	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to commend this report, which is truly excellent and comprehensive, but I just want to know if you've considered whether there will be any further reports, although it is a court decision, and a statement of the security measure of mandatory psychiatric treatment. Namely, the office has already organised various educations for judges on the subject where we see different indicators of the number of statements of security measures, therefore, from county to county, and this measure is, therefore, prescribed by both criminal law and criminal law and the Law on protection against domestic violence, so it would be very interesting to see these data if it is possible to cover it in the following reports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129544	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129545	Representative Celic, so it's a good idea that will be respected and accepted in the next... [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129546	Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129547	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, we are talking about the 2017 Report, yes, but it is an act for me that we drowned the agency in the ministry to show how serious we really want to fight addiction, I think that the existence of the agency itself has given meaning to the fight against addiction and the implementation of the strategy itself. What I am particularly interested in in this case, therefore, here in the report is a lot of talk about repression, repressive action, therefore, in dealing with illegal narcotics. I'm interested in how much you invest in education, because one kuna in prevention is 4 kuna saved in recovery. For one of the, at least, I think, one of the most effective tools in the fight against addiction is education, education on drug toxicity, so that young people know what risks they put themselves at if they abuse such substances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129548	Would you like to answer? Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129549	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. So it wasn't about the agency, it was about the government's office and we believe that this way, which most European countries have arranged to be at the Public Health Office, will get good results. As far as education is concerned, we spend a year, so 2017. We spent 848 million total funds, of which 18.8% went to preventive programs and education.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129550	Now it's Mr. Ante Babic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129551	Thank you, Secretary of State, thank you all in the report on the implementation of the national action plan and I also read it, I don't know exactly in the methodology, but I don't know if you've thought about it since all the representatives of the office are 836 schools that I've been counting on are around 12540 teachers, district schools 1172, 2344 teachers, 440 secondary schools, 13200 teachers, for a total of 479 000 students. If we sent it capillaryly, we'd have an even stronger education, if only 1%, so this was an extremely valuable document, if only 1% saved future potential drug addicts, that would be 5,000 people. So, I want and please, unless that's the case that you're working on that capillary education by sending this document to all the teachers in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129552	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129553	Thank you very much, esteemed parliamentary representative. It's an idea that's commendable and that we can accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129554	Thank you, Mr. Ivan Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129555	Dear Vice-President, dear secretary, there is an increasing use of psychoactive substances in the EU that are not under legal control and pose a major threat to public health. It is, of course, synthetic cannabinoids whose consumption can cause health damage, but also death. What is the control of the use of these substances in our country?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129556	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129557	In the Republic of Croatia control there is, so far there is one, only this problem that the list of drugs is being updated approximately once a year or less, but in the Law on the Prevention of Drug Abuse which was in the first reading here in HS last month, there will be a second reading, and in the third month it is foreseen that the minister is immediately given the opportunity to issue an order to exempt the substance from the drug list.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129558	And at the end of the day, Ines Fire.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129559	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is unnecessary to talk about this once again, as well as my predecessors, that the bad move was to withdraw the government's anti-drug abuse office and put it under the hat of the Croatian Institute of Public Health because this body worked differently, including other aspects other than treatment and the fight against addicts, but also the fight against and themselves, means, the capture and processing of those who are in charge of measuring all data. I'm interested, you're saying that in the new strategy, you're going to include all the other addictions, what you've done so far with, in the fight against 200, over 200,000 of those who have a problem with alcohol, which is a huge problem in our society, you're saying that you're going to put it in the strategy, which you now have when we know that you've allowed it to go out. Hundreds of high-quality alcoholic clubs [[Intruder: Thank you]] who really worked well. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] 30 years each, which is now [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're working on that plan. [[Intruder: Thank you, time]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129560	Time, thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129561	Thank you, well-respected representatives of Srenja. So, as far as this drug office is concerned, I think that's a deplaced topic, so there's people who ran there, we think we're going to be better at it,.../incomprehensible/... addictions on alcoholism will be covered by a new strategy that you're going to get, and this isn't.../incomprehensible/... no clubs.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129562	If the Committee's rapporteurs would like to take the floor, Mrs Ines Strenja, the chairman of the Health and Social Policy Committee, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129563	I thank Mr President, I welcome the representatives of the ministry with co-workers, so the Health and Social Policy Committee discussed at its 64th session a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the action plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2019 as a parent body. The opening argument was tabled by the proposing representative, stressing that the drug abuse prevention policy is based on the strategic objectives of reducing the supply and demand of drugs and a multidisciplinary approach in the implementation of the programme aimed at preventing drug addiction and combating drug abuse. The basis for the implementation is the National Strategy and Action Plan to combat drug abuse and the Law on the prevention of drug abuse, which is the starting point of all relevant stakeholders in the national system. In accordance with those acts, individual programmes from different segments of drug abuse policy are created and implemented. In 2017, in the healthcare system, a total of 7,157 people were treated, a slight increase of 0.7% compared to 2016, but it is still a reduction compared to 2015 by as much as 5%. Of the total treatment in 2017 80.7% took opiates, and 19.3% were treated because of taking or depending on other psychoactive substances, which is 1.384 people, and it can be said that there was an increase in the number of people treated for non-opiotic addiction by 20%. The number of new people in the treatment system increased compared to 2016. In 2017, 957 people were treated for their first addiction treatment compared to 2016 when 771 people were treated with an increase of as much as 24%. According to the main fund of all new arrivals, 204 were opiate addictions mean 23% in 754 and 77% of consumables, respectively, or drug addicts. The Committee members supported the report containing the pooled data for 2017 and, in a comprehensive and detailed manner, provides a demonstration, situation and measures taken to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia. The general conclusion is that most of the planned activities in the National Strategy for drug abuse and action plans have been implemented and significant steps have been taken over the existing period. The national response to the drug problem has developed fully in line with the recommended standards, guidelines, EU experiences. These can be seen in many ways as an example of good practice, which is also the conclusion of the evaluation of the Dutch Institute of Mental Health and Dependence of the Trimbo Institute. So, despite such good assessments by the Trimbo Institute in the debate, concerns are expressed over the fact that Croatia is above the European average for the consumption of illegal and new drugs among young people, that is what needs to be said. This further raised the issue of the possibility of producing medical cannabis in the Republic of Croatia but also the question of the possibility of abuse, especially since research shows that cannabis is the most commonly used illegal drug in Croatia. In this regard, individual board members felt that greater availability also raises the issue of greater abuse. They also consider it unquestionable and compulsory that the new strategic document for the next period will cover all sorts of addictions such as alcohol, tobacco, gambling, betting and dependence on social networks, or that a new strategic framework with new forms of treatment aimed at these addicts is envisaged, especially because it concerns the increase of all of these addictions, especially the increase in alcohol consumption among young people. In the discussion of drug abuse management, she agreed that there will be problems in the treatment of new addictions at first, given that the existing system of services for prevention of drug addiction works according to guidelines that are mostly focused on the treatment of opiate addictions. Also, the problem of new drug consumption is in a completely different profile than opium or cannabis consumption, which also requires different treatment interventions, but opinions are that the new strategic document will further strengthen this area. The following debate also highlighted the regret of ignoring the function of the clubs of treated alcoholics and the need for their re-establishment. In this connection, it is noted that the new strategic document provides for strengthening their human resources as well as continuous financing and stronger integration with the field-related prevention and treatment services. It concluded at the end of the debate that the Committee unanimously supported this conclusion, which is that a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 is adopted. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129564	Can we open a debate? We're opening a debate. The first in line again is Mrs. Ines Strenja in front of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129565	I thank you, so I will repeat a few of the basic things that are needed before we think about drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia, which is that drug abuse prevention policy is based on the strategic objectives of reducing supply and demand for drugs and multidisciplinary approach in the implementation of programmes aimed at preventing drug abuse and preventing drug abuse. So, according to the UN Office of Drugs and Crime, about 200 million people consume illegal drugs such as cocaine, marijuana, phallucinogenic drugs, opiates and sedated hypnotics. In addition, addiction to psychoactive drugs is closely linked to other social problems, such as poverty, unemployment, prostitution, delinquency, crime, homelessness, and health risks, primarily infectious diseases, which are HIV, hepatitis C, hepatitis B and sexually transmitted diseases, and ultimately followed by high mortality. Therefore, the national drug policy depends on many factors, such as political and economic stability, availability of various professional and scientific achievements in this area, enlargement, drug abuse, social awareness of the phenomenon, and the legal system and geographical position of a particular state. The national strategy is a fundamental strategic document in the area of drugs and constitutes a framework for the action of all state institutions and civil society organisations to combat abuse, prevent addiction and to help drug addicts and occasional drug consumption, but also to assist individuals, families and society as a whole, to overcome drug abuse difficulties. So, we have a national strategy, which is the basis of a document whose main role is to prevent and prevent and reduce drug abuse and other means of drug abuse, especially among children and young people, reduce drug abuse and drug abuse, as well as related health and social risks, resulting from drug abuse, reduce drug availability, at all levels, and all forms of drug abuse-related crime to improve and build a networked system to combat drug abuse and combat drug addiction in the national and local environment. And then we have an action plan, which sets out all these goals, defining them with a national strategy. And the main objective of the action plan is to ensure responsibility for the implementation of the overall national policy. And then he has several parts, therefore, in the reduction in demand reduction, it is necessary to work on increasing availability, as it says in our action plan, to increase the availability of preventive interventions and programmes for children and young people with special emphasis on risk groups, to work on improved treatment measures, treatments and resociation of addicts, and above all on multidisciplinary work in the field of treatment, and specific forms of treatment. Then we go to the part that directly connects to the reduction in supply, so where the emphasis should be on strengthening the measures of the repressive apparatus and improving criminal policies related to drug abuse and organised crime. And then we have in the field of monitoring, research and evaluation, working to encourage and implement research on the problem of addiction, and will continue to work actively to promote evaluation and supervisory of the programme, and all of this needs to be improved coordination and cooperation among various competent authorities. So, we are the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse, we have reduced only to this part of the treatment, then, prevention and treatment of drug addicts and we have put under the cap of the Croatian Institute of Public Health. Now I'm interested in how they're going to work on reducing the offer, where measures of the repressive apparatus need to be strengthened and criminal policies improved. I'm simply curious, in which way or you'll change these action plans, obviously you'll have to. Because sometimes we have the best intention, to cut costs, and it was necessary to shut down some of the agencies, but we came into a situation, that we're something that worked very well, because we've still managed very well for the last decade to get rid of this monster and increase drastically some increase, drug addicts, we have an increase in these opiate, but we can say that we've been fighting relatively well, the system has worked out well, we have top experts, who are dealing with treatment, but we also have those who are dealing with the prevention of even the availability of all drugs on the market and tracking, interception and confiscation that were sometimes huge, even in tones. And we're coming into a situation where this one office, which is all that data and all these measures, had some kind of complex and worked out well for many years, we now, as well as some agencies that really didn't have the meaning of their existence shutting down to say that we're reducing some costs. We haven't reduced anything, but the results of this bad decision will be seen in the first five, six years. What would point out is that in 2017 a new record of 11000 123 has been seized of all types of drugs, which is from, it is even 0.16% compared to 2016. But what's important, while in the last 5 years, what the report says of the seized plant cannabis ranged between 50-60% in the total number of all types of drugs, it passed to 70% last year. If we promote the structure of drug users, there is still a growing share of various stimulants including cocaine. In 2017, 10 new psychoactive substances in the field of dust, crystal and tablet were seized in the EU in 2017, and there were as many as 51 new substances that mimic the effects of classical drugs, which are new psychoactive substances, which we have recently had changes to the law, and in 2018 they were even detected in the first half of 38 new drugs, while we still have 21 smart shops in Croatia that continue to be exhausted and functioning regularly. So I'm interested, and I'd like you to answer that, the authorities we've done about it. About the data that are very different and in the county, I'm sorry if it wasn't presented, sometimes it would be good if we even had some presentation, which would show a little more clearly to those who are interested, but here's a reminder, in Zadar, for example. you have the most pronounced problem of drug abuse is in Zadar, where it is 485 per 100 thousand, compared to Dubrovnik Neretvanska where it is 214, in Sibenik Kninska the same 431 per 100 thousand, in Primorje Goranska 326 If it is double less then it is quite clear how much the problem is in that part of Croatia and I wonder whether you have any different measures compared to some parts of Croatia where, measures by type of prevention and treatment of drug addicts. And also intercepting those who are distributors of these substances. And I would also like to say that according to data on gender and age treated people with addiction problems are always, still men but it's interesting that the average age that comes first to treatment is high. Almost 27 years. So come the people we would consider to be already formed persons who should have realized or done something by then with their lives, unfortunately they come for the first time then for treatment and probably behind them is a decade of drug use. It's final. Young people need to be brought up to be reasonable, responsible, and conscious and make them immune in order to avoid being tried, experimented with, and become consumers and addicts. They should be objectively informed about drugs and their effect on health long before they are able to make a choice and decide whether to taste them or not. If reason makes a man, the feeling leads him to have the most important education and prevention, and it is the primary purpose of which is not to abuse drugs because it is much better, more effective, less expensive than to cure. Now there is a role for us who must have a clear story, a complex story in which we will strengthen these young people and strengthen our system so that they do not even come to it but by not informing at all. By not informing and in some way delaying the introduction of young people, but also in primary school with what drugs mean and what such behavior models mean, strengthening them but also their families are something to keep working on. It's not just one class class class class class where it's going to be a little smiley, and it's not going to be done once a year on a surface so that someone who's an expert does 30, 40 schools and tells the same story, that's where the kids listen and go back to class. Thus, the most important thing is education and prevention, and it is the primary purpose of which is to avoid drug abuse because it is much better, more effective, and cheaper to prevent it than to treat it. Unfortunately, it still invests more in treatment than in prevention. Treatment is a delicate, very complex and very long and expensive and prognosis of treatment is that our expert, colleague, very bad, and half of the treatment-treated addicts are reciting. The problem of drugs is recognised as the need for a continuous, coordinated professional, scientific and quality approach to its resolution. As stated in the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse on the Drug Problem, we spend more than 800 million kuna a year. I therefore once again advocate a more comprehensive, more effective, professional and systematic prevention of addiction, strict punishment for drug mafia, drug dealers and drug dealers. I'd just like to get back to the drinking problem for a little while. So with 12.8 liters of pure alcohol per capita in Croatia we are at the very top of Europe. It's about 200 or more thousand, so you're talking about 250 grand, the lowest number is 200 thousand people who are addicted to alcohol, but alcohol doesn't just hit that person with all the implications of their mental but primarily and health condition, and we have to multiply it by at least 3.4 times. It is a huge problem in Croatia that destroys families, destroys society, and we do not yet have an adequate answer to that. So here we're talking about 7000 addicts and here we're talking about maybe 800,000 of our citizens who are affected by alcoholism. I didn't tell you that you've shut down, but systematically for the last 20 years, the clubs of treated alcoholics have been shut down because the state had no hearing that they should survive. It wasn't some big money, it was clubs by former firms, big companies, who had their own clubs, local communities, local committees, some municipalities that worked really on very minimal means, but with the desire of the one who ran that psychotherapy to get that group out of a minimum of 5 years of abstinence when you have the greatest possibility that the person would in some way maintain that abstinence. And we didn't support it, it really depended on the state because the municipalities and the companies slowly shut down, they didn't find any incentive from those who actually need to look at the whole global picture. But what's the biggest problem today is the problem of alcoholism in young people, the availability of alcohol and I stand up for it, and soon you'll have a proposal from my club, the law that alcohol absolutely should be banned from selling, the banned sale for minors must be banned at gas stations and more than 10 o'clock in the evening in supermarkets and shops. So the only way to reduce availability, especially for young people, is to do something with education. Because young people who start drinking, who start taking alcohol every day when they're 15, 16 years old, are young people who are going to leave school, who are going to go to crime. These are young girls who will definitely experience unwanted pregnancies. So we will completely destroy their early youth when we need to do something about our lives. Many of them are children of those who have experienced that alcohol is a normal phenomenon and that is something to work on. And that's why I'm asking you systematically, so if you're going to work out a new National Strategy to fight all addictions, other than drugs, other than betting and gambling, which is a huge problem and addiction to social networks, alcoholism may be something that affects practically every 4-5 inhabitants of our country, so please, to work out this specifically. Thank you, work out a strategy to help solve this. [[Intruder Radin: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129566	Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Ivan Celic, in front of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, we have a report on drugs ahead of us, although I appreciate that Strenja spoke about the issue of alcohol, and I will still focus on drugs, but it is important to talk about this problem, so we have already heard more than once that the 2 basic pillars are a reduction in supply and demand reduction. The Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse has worked very well, if you ask me, you would say that 50 people would be little to deal with the problem of addiction, but I believe, as Secretary of State Dulibic said, since they... to monitor the drug problem in most European countries at institutes, i.e. public health institutions, I believe that highly qualified professionals who have worked at the Office for the Prevention of Drug Abuse will continue to develop in this special service, given the national strategy and actions in the area of addiction, which, in addition to the drug problem, also includes alcohol and tobacco and behavioural addiction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are aware of the growing and greater gambling problem, it is estimated that more than 50,000 people in the Republic have a gambling addiction problem. As for the excessive use of the Internet and social networks, it is at this point a much bigger problem in the countries of the Far East but slowly coming to Croatia, slowly coming to Europe and certainly should be covered by the national strategy and with action plans. If we look back at the evaluation... The Institute of the Netherlands, we will see that most of the planned activities in the national strategy have been realised, we have some problems left, I would point out that the biggest problem of information, that this system which is proud of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, such as transplant medicine, is also a system of treatment of opiate addicts at a very high level, according to all levels, according to all indicators of quality of health, with the addition of information, and with that sentence we will be even better. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order to ensure the availability of different programmes, the office led the coordination of activities, at national level, there is a county commission in each county to combat drug abuse. It is likely now with a new national strategy that will be renamed as a committee to curb addiction, namely, each county has adopted private action plans, especially for drug issues, especially for alcohol issues, but by adopting a new national strategy should be covered by one action plan on the issue of all addictions. The promotion of the quality of the addiction prevention programme has been continuously implemented, and these activities have also recognised a partnership for European standards as an example of good practice, for quality prevention of drug abuse. Prevention intervention in Croatia was conducted at the universal, selective and indicated level, and environmental strategies are present, most of the universal prevention programme are conducted in the school environment. Therefore, if we take into account that the Croatian Institute of Public Health is a central place for implementing preventive programmes, and I agree that it is an important multidisciplinary approach and that this is not only a matter of health system, health policy, but a much wider one, I think that this will further invest in the development of preventive programmes and education from the earliest age, therefore, but from kindergartens, education for those smallest children, but also for their parents. As for the data related to drug consumption, therefore, there is a significant increase in treatment of cannabis addiction, which is again somehow in correlation with greater availability and data, therefore, that almost 1% of all Europeans use almost daily cannabis. Data for 2017 So they say that as the main drug that caused him to go to treatment where there were stimulants or cocaine, there were 270 people, which is about the same as in 2016. As regards therefore, treatment for opiates, there are therefore, also approximately the same results as in 2016, HIV prevalence is at a low level, at a stable level. There has also been a decline in hepatitis C. Programs and a reduction in damages, the main part of the work is done by the Croatian Red Cross, but we cannot exclude several NGOs, which are very good at carrying out damage reduction programmes. As for the treatment, therefore, we have a hospital and an outpatient system. As for the outpatient system, there are key services for mental health, prevention and non-patient treatment of addiction, which are conducted by most of the treatment programmes in the Republic of Croatia. It is important to note, therefore, that since 2006 in the Republic of Croatia there are guidelines for... treatment, treatment of opiate addicts, depending on methadone or bupromerfin. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But what I would particularly point out is, and guidance on psychosocial treatment, drug addiction in the health, social and prison system, which was adopted in 2014, the big problem, is the problem of prisoners, drug addicts, which I was talking about last week, when the report was about penitentiary and prisons. So, in certain countries with the restructuring of psychiatric services, the situation occurred, and I think, above all, of the United States that prisons have actually become real psychiatric hospitals, where people with serious mental disorders come from who, due to the lack of specialised departments for the treatment of forensic psychiatry, end up in prison institutions. I think we're way ahead of a modern state like the United States. However, the problem of drug inmates is great, and it presents one big, big challenge for the justice system. Dependence is directly linked to the conduct of criminal acts, and this group of prisoners is characterised by a higher rate of relapse than in the general prison population. If we add, therefore, other problems that are related, therefore, to health, question of viral infections and others, therefore, problems, then we see, therefore, that there is a need to further develop the judicial system and work on teaming the medical team within that judicial system. I would especially like to commend what is said here in the report, therefore, probation service, assistant minister, mrs. Jana Špero, who runs the Department of the Prison System and probation with her associates and editors, has done a lot of work on it and the probation service is doing a lot of different activities. During 2017 The probation service worked directly with 226 addicts, which is 3% of the total population of the perpetrators. And as I said at the very introduction, given the importance and effect of expressing the security of mandatory psychiatric treatment according to the criminal law, the law on protection against domestic violence, I think it would be appropriate for this comprehensive, excellent report to include that item, so that we can see differences from county to county and that, with the education of judges, it would be an additional incentive, that this security measure could be applied where necessary. The HDZ Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129568	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Tomislav Zhagar's turn in front of the Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129569	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues, every report, so independently, here, since it is the 2017 report, every report serves as a basis for us to see where we have sinned, where, what we have done well, and what we can do better, and especially in the context of the creation of the National Plan to combat drug abuse and, in that sense, this report is used to make this plan or programme better, so here, in this brief debate, I will try to contribute to this business with one specific or a series of concrete proposals, but before that, of course, to say as my predecessors, the report has been made professionally, correctly and there are no specific objections to it. When we talk about addictions in general, then we can all agree that this is an exceptional social problem, it concerns all segments of society, all age groups, and regardless of whether, even the material status of individual members of society, about whether they are in society, whether they are allowed self-confirmation or self-recognition, whether they have safety or have no job security, is covered by everything, by all these elements. But what we should be paying more attention to in the future is research, and I don't think we have enough research in this area. As far as I'm concerned, the Department of Public Health is doing these research on our counties, on... The county was a very good research. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one piece of information that amazes me, that most parents don't control their children's dating at all, or restricting their time out, or the places where they go, let's say, it's one piece of information that's significant, but such research can be useful to us to deal with such a social problem better. Of course, yes, and then we see how much correlation there is with the degree of poverty and with these other elements that we said about because when there was a report here from the penitentiary, it was observed that most of it, especially young, younger criminals, were acts against property. Are they really related to the degree of poverty or is behind this part of addiction, so they're addicts, at least that's what we heard, and the respected doctors when they spoke before me, it's an addiction that forces people to commit crimes to achieve that need and we can't forget that when we talk about the market and consumption, and it's obvious from the reports that consumers are regularly involved and as market employees, we can't express ourselves that way, but they are the ones who do it on several occasions to come alone to meet their needs. Not to repeat everything that's in the report, because there's a wide range of it, and I say, honest doctors have already said that, research is important, as doctors say to give good therapy, we need to make a diagnosis. I'd look back at this part, and it's about prevention. So, always and personally, I think, but most of you will agree, there's always better prevention than repression, and I don't think there's a conversation here, and there's been a mention of the commission here, and the report mentions county commissions to stop drug abuse. What is not mentioned in the report, and what should be mentioned, and I wanted to point out, here, that it may be the basis for the future and the strategy itself. We in the Republic of Croatia have 556 municipalities and cities, it's huge, it's, I'll put it this way, it's an army of people. Many municipalities, I don't know the number now at this point, many municipalities have established prevention councils or prevention committees according to the directions of the MUP. In my community, this commission worked very well. Watch out for prevention is best done where problems arise, problems always arise in the bar. We know best the situation with which our fellow citizens face daily, which are motives, which are the reasons why someone becomes an addict, either on drugs, or on alcohol, because all the addictions ultimately destroy families and the information that they have, which commissions that work professionally, of course, will not share that information in order to put people on a pillar of shame rather than simply help these people. Personally I had a case, it was one of my favorite things in life, which I helped a friend at that stage to treat the problems of addiction, that is, it's something that leaves a deep trail in a man, so my advice is either to fit in and municipalities, the committee for prevention in municipalities where both the chief of police and the mayor of the municipality or the city where they are, and even the parishioner is involved, there is a simple commission, the school director, yes, because here and now, thank you to fellow Bedeković, so 865 primary schools, if I don't know now that number is accurate, 440 secondary schools, it's the same army, it's, these are the resources that we can include, I think that my colleague Babić proposed to deliver it to the school, so that in this way where problems arise, where we can first react. In this sense, we will, of course, support this report, and we hope that, when we talk about addiction and new types of addiction, we are mostly talking about registered addiction but things under that ice santa, that part of the ice dream that we see are much more complex and much more complicated. So I wish you success in your work, and this report will be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129570	Thank you, too, and now it's in front of GLAS and HSU representatives Mrs. Nada Turina Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129571	Dear Mr Vice President, I will begin by saying that GLAS and HSU will support the report, as colleagues have pointed out very extensively, analytically, and we think that it can read the basic meaning of some kind of, some of the directions in which the indicators of drug abuse are going. What is probably most interested in our citizens and above all I would say to parents because we still focus or should focus in our opinion on young people, so not to say but in that first stage, perhaps even children in those first four grades of primary school, where we all swear to prevention or education of children, I think they are most interested in watching or listening to such a debate, which we really do based on such reports. Reports are not, cannot be characterized as particularly perhaps alarming, they move here somewhere in a few percent plus or minus one year at a time, they may not read that we are particularly bad or catastrophic but it cannot be read that at some point we have done something significant to achieve a significant drop in the number of addicts, that some indicators are significantly changing over a period of time. And that's what politics should talk about, what politics should make decisions when we talk about such reports, or when we analyze them and discuss them or accept them or do not accept them. I don't know if I said the GLAS Club and HSU will accept this report, it's simply a report as it is, and I don't think it should be politically on this by not accepting a political expression of an attitude that is absolutely not affirmative, nor necessary. But as a policy we should say that we may not be determined enough, so I read this report, we are determined enough to break up with some phenomena related to drug abuse, so here I am simply taxing them out. So here's the situation with the office where the office is no longer in fact the government's office, but in the department's jurisdiction or attached to the teaching office, we don't consider it a good decision, and for this very political reason, it means where we expect such an office to be a place where it directly can affect the problem and where that office has the task of keeping under control all those stakeholders that can affect better work, or better indicators in some perspective related to drug abuse, drugs and the number of addicts in the Republic. It's just not, it's amazing when you read this data that in one county, that we don't really do it here, but in one county you have indicators that are 3 times or 2 times larger, let's say you have 2, 3 times the number of addicts relative to, say, another part of Croatia, and nobody can explain it to me in a way that I don't know there people may have more money than tourism, or I don't know more time in winter for such trips in relation to other parts of Croatia, and I don't know what other justifications are for such indicators. It is likely that it imposes on itself that the repressive apparatus, which has a certain impact on how many drug abuses and on a certain public view of abuses, if the repressive apparatus functions well and quality. So there are some, in my opinion, reasonable suspicions that the repressive apparatus in some areas of the Republic of Croatia does not work properly, or that it may be in some way corrupt, given that drug abuse is very often, directly, associated with crime, or, in other words, with large amounts of money that can be made in that space. So, I think we should, what we've gotten away with, as an independent executive body, which was directly in the government of the Republic of Croatia, I think, is a big mistake, because maybe the main thing was that the office could act in an executive way, or that it could influence inter-resorially, so here's what I was saying about the repressive apparatus, or, for the Ministry of the Interior, the co-ordination of the judiciary, of course, health care, which in itself is clear, but also social, I think that this possibility, which the office had to further develop, is simply out of place for us, and that we'll probably after some time have some indicators that we're going to like, which we'll like a lot less than these today. Everyone here talked about education and prevention, and I would add information, should speak even more, that is, if this problem is faced at the very beginning, that is, in the place where it usually occurs, and unfortunately occurs at a very early age in young people. So one of the ways to get into the system and train prevention, education and information is schools, but not just schools, but also all other sports organisations, cultural organisations, NGOs, which should be networked in the information, education and prevention system that goes in the direction of drug abuse. And something that, I don't know why still exists, big one, seems to me resistance or lack of knowledge about, which is that parents should actually be most informed and educated about the problem. And parents should be the ones who first see the problem if it occurs, along with the institutions where children attend, which are schools, universities. So these institutions are, however, in their call, not only educational, but also educational institutions, therefore, have their own authority and that children, of course in the community with their families, first of all inform parents about the problem. The colleagues here said, of course the problem arises in certain places, in the local community, the causes are different and the problem is treated multidisciplinaryly and this is visible in this report which is of course good. But, just the formation of some commissions, commissions, committees, advice or I don't know what hasn't been tried not only in the area that we're talking about today, which is drug abuse, but also in other areas, they haven't given adequate results. And I think that policy based on such reports must make decisions that will be sent a stronger message and that will provide sufficient resources, material, both financial and human resources to solve these problems better, so that the results of these problems can be better, because with these results we cannot be satisfied, especially when we hear the information that we are here, we are often at the top of the EU, by many indicators, but unfortunately by indicators of drug abuse, we are very high and very advanced. While I was reading this topic on this subject, of course, you always open up some data on the Internet that you can see which are outside of other countries of experience of other countries. Some countries have faced, of course, far more drastically poor indicators than these are ours, so they are not comparable, but they have had poor indicators and have decided to go into drastic measures and have had very great successes, or have had results. Of course in the long term, in some larger time periods, not in the short term, not from today, until tomorrow, Portugal is often mentioned there, which had an extremely big problem there in the '70s for some very other reasons political but they realized that they had a problem such that they had to deal with it drastically. And I think we need to open up as a policy of the topic here and decriminalization of drugs. We've taken some steps that have still reduced the pressure if anything else on our judiciary related to criminal persecution, to drug use for our own needs. I mean, there were conversations here and how to use drugs for medical purposes. We need to talk about this whole package a lot more, we need to stop it, of course, to completely isolate what's called dealing, which is called reselling production, as far as smuggling, channels, drug chains that have partially passed through that former state, go through today and through Croatia, means the bigger the more, preventing drugs from coming to consumers. We need to use everything there in a repressive apparatus and in a judicial apparatus to prevent it as much as possible. But also in the part that applies to the so-called. Easy drugs. We absolutely as a club are open to discussing the decriminalization of certain types of drugs. I think that these indicators and what we can see in this report I'm going to say quite layishly, frankly but still in contact with generations of young people between, I don't know, 15 and 30 years at the end as a parent, I think that information about how many of our young people in those years consume light drugs has nothing to do with what the report says. I wish it wasn't like that and you could deny it to me. And specifically, but according to what I hear in everyday contact with young people, it's something that, eating light drugs is something that our youngsters almost treat like there's smoking or I don't know how to drink coffee, I won't be, not to say too rough but it actually turns out that way. Whether it should be so, it shouldn't be, it's something we need to talk about, we need to open these topics and they're always welcome reports in this form to talk about. Thank you very much again. The Voice and HSU club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129572	Thank you very much. Thank you, Mrs Turina-Djuric. And now there is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA whose opinion Mr Ivan Pernar will present. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129573	Dear ladies and gentlemen. I have to say that the Live Wall Club won't accept the Drug Prevention Report because certain things that shouldn't be on that list are on it. I'll explain in particular we've submitted to the parliamentary procedure a bill that would legalise Indian hemp. However, the ruling majority rejected the proposal. She rejected our judgment for the wrong reasons by making it clear to everyone or to an increasing number of people it is clear that it is a healing plant that treats many diseases, or helps to remove the symptoms of the disease and enables the sick to live such a normal life. The most famous case is that of Juanita Luksetic, a young man who unfortunately was sentenced to two years in prison as well as his friend Goran Zakrasek, who received 9 months in prison. In both cases it's a great injustice, people are only convicted because they've been treated. This law doesn't understand. This drug-restriction bill doesn't realize that certain things he classifies as drugs are not. And my say so in a restrictive policy actually destroys many lives and full prisons with people who are not criminals. Infringement courts are also crowded cases of people arrested with grams, two, three, four, five marijuana and small amounts, i.e. fines are given large amounts of fines. Of course, someone who has a lot of money is nothing to him but a young person or a middle-aged person, however, even an older 5,000 kuna fine is not little. But the biggest injustice, i.e. the largest hypocrisy of the system, is reflected in the Kruljac case, i.e. in the Kruljac and Luksetić case. Namely, David Kruljac's son, General Mladen Kruljac, was given a job for the general good and a fine for it, now beware of what, because he had 4.5kg of marijuana, 28g of cocaine, 10.5 thousand kuna and 117 thousand euros in his apartment. Also, police found a digital scale and a pressurization device in the apartment. The general's son ended up in an investigative prison and was defended after his arrest that he was keeping drugs and money for resident Tom Ford, a Serbian citizen. Now imagine what the story is, so he argues that a Serbian citizen, a Serbian citizen, is called Tom Ford and says, who, according to Kruljac, promised him a cash prize in exchange for preservation. It's like, say, it's convincing to me like that. I'm holding in the register, say 50 grand and suddenly the money disappears from the register and now they ask me, well, Mr. Pernar, where's that 50,000 kn, I say, listen, my dog ate 50,000 kn. So it's a story, a story, a school story, when he asks the student professor where the homework is, says the dog ate his homework. However, in the case of David the Kruljec such a defence court, I would dare say in some way even accept that he gave no actual punishment. However, on the other hand, Juanito got, watch this now, Juanito got two years in prison, a second-degree court, so by a powerful verdict, he confirmed the judgment of the 2017 River Court. who was sentenced to two years of unconditional imprisonment. Now the question is, why did David Kruljac get a job for the general good, specifically, 730 hours of work for the common good, and Juanito got two years of unconditional imprisonment, and his friend Goran Zakrasek, pardon, not 9 but even 10 months of unconditional prison. What makes Juanito and Zakrasek a greater criminal than David the Kruljec? According to my assessment, David Kruljac has received charity work or a year in prison has been replaced by work for the common good, in my opinion, because our legal system is not, there is no uniform criteria for all. For example. For example, someone calls Tudjman a criminal, gets 15 days in prison for a verbal delinquent, and someone admits that, for example, he's subscribed a building for, say, 14 million kuna, I don't remember the exact amount, Planinska, says a colleague from HSS, Mr. Cobankovic, ha, he's got a job for the common good. Imagine, for Tudjman's word, he's a criminal, 15 days in prison, to darken 14 million kunas of state money, work for the common good, and there's a question of what our legal system is like? Is our legal system dealing with serious dealers and serious crime or is it dealing with people being treated, as in the case of Luksetić, Zakrasek and in this case a verbal delinquent, where the man was given 15 days in prison for shouting? Notice this funny thing, the one who cried out that Tudjman is a criminal, must not approach the statue, imagine, cannot come near the statue, and the man who, according to the video, was beating up a woman, he or she is young, he is allowed to come near her and approach her. Note that this is easier than the judiciary and then, and why will I say that the laxity is from the judiciary, so all the processes that were against the big ones, under the quotes of the fish, picturesquely speaking, large cases, type of Sanader, Bandic, Vidosevic, Todorovic, that I do not list any further, none of these cases have reached a judicial verdict, all that team is out there, Sanader can run in the elections tomorrow that he will, probably get some votes. But unlike them, Juanito was sentenced by power, so why? How is that possible? It's possible because this government doesn't even want to allow people for medical reasons to grow themselves hemp, is it not a shame? Isn't it a shame that sick people aren't allowed to be treated on their own? You're gonna say how I can buy in a pharmacy or don't know where, in theory I can if there's a pharmacy, but what you don't tell people is that the price is in a pharmacy, so it's not cheap. So the state says that, yes, as it can be in the pharmacy, but it doesn't say that it's not on the prescription, it's not free, it's not on the HZZO list, and now it's expensive for you if you don't have money to buy in a pharmacy or from a drug dealer and if you decide, and you need a cure, which is the only solution that makes you logical? So you grow for yourself and the state then treat it like a drug production, so here and there, 10 months in prison, Juanito for two years, for what? For seven plants. For seven plants of my people. And what's seven plants? Nothing. You are not aware of the injustice this system creates and we sincerely suspect that the reason why you are persecuting and processing people for gram, two, three marijuanas or people like Juanita and all the others who are being treated with hemp is because you are unable to calculate or fight real crime. 'Cause imagine if all the cases were to be tied to Indian hemp, if all these people were to be released, if all these proceedings were to be suspended, so that the courts would be dealt with, which would be done by the Ministry of Justice. It is regrettable that Croatia has been brought into the state and rather than that Croatian farmers produce Indian hemp, to earn on it, no, we import Indian hemp from Canada, it is a solution, import, legal and illegal imports from Albania. So anything is possible just not for us to produce it ourselves. Croatia has the potential to become a country producer of Indian hemp, hemp oil and all hemp derivatives, which are expensive and wanted, we have a future for Croatian village and peasants, we have ideal climate conditions for the production of hemp, but the government of HDZ, HNS, Bandic Milan 365 and 8 minority representatives do not want or refuse to allow the legalisation of hemp. The paradox is that they are part of the government and the godless liberal sides, so HSLS and HNS, and that both HSLS and HNS are on paper de jure liberal options, but in practice they are part of a ruling majority that does not want to legalise hemp, which does not want to allow sick people even sick people to grow it themselves, let alone allow its recreational use. It seems conservative to me, traditionally, you'd dare say both coot and anti-liberal. Also someone might say well, but Mr. Pernar, someone might as well be able to get a diagnosis of someone, so here's a list of diagnosiss say multiple sclerosis or I don't know a brain tumor that has a brain tumor that can grow an Indian hemp itself, so no one can fake that it has a brain tumor if it doesn't. These are serious diagnosiss, multiple sclerosis also, clearly from the plane whether someone has it or not, but unfortunately the Croatian government doesn't care about the interest of the patient, the Croatian government doesn't care that sick people are cured, the Croatian government doesn't care that young people get rid of criminal proceedings, the state or government doesn't care about shutting down empty people who are inside because of marijuana. All these people will continue to be persecuted while the people who ruined Croatia, who led to the escape of hundreds of thousands of people from the country and the destruction of their lives and our lives, will continue to enjoy a peaceful and peaceful life. The question is, why? And by the way, the strategy for the fight against drug abuse is pointless, and I'm going to give you another example, which crazyness, the state seized and destroyed, almost one ton of marijuana last year, almost one ton, but at the same time we're importing marijuana or its derivatives from Canada, you realize what a paradox it is, how many people could cure with that. But no one cares, simply in the heads of HDZ marijuana is a dangerous drug, HDZ is against every drug and this agony for the sick and everyone else continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129574	Thank you very much, for the sake of correctness, and not everyone in the coalition in power is against, and not everyone in the opposition is in favour, that is correct, correct information that I want to highlight, and it is about legalising easy drugs. Just for the sake of correctness. Here you go, Mr. Curaj, in front of Mr. Stjepan Curaj in front of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129575	I thank the Vice President for a little, well-wanted intervention, given that we are here talking about the National Strategy Implementation Report and the action plan to combat drug abuse, but a little broadly, why not. Some of these days we've heard things that I can't quite agree with, and I think any prohibition of prohibition just makes what's forbidden more desirable, so it's kind of forbidden fruit so that it won't be possible to agree with some of the proposals put forward here to limit the right of a sale, but we've always talked about this legalization for many years now, and I hope that one day it will actually be implemented. As in previous governments, we have represented as well as here. As far as the matter is concerned, I think it's clear to everyone that all the consequences are and we don't have to talk about what it means for a young organism, for, for, for practical children, the consumption of any intoxicating substances and opiates, and I'm just going to concentrate on one phenomenon which, unfortunately, last year in Osijek took a huge wave and nearly 10 young people were hospitalized with serious psychiatric disorders, and here, on page 32, is listed as new psychoactive substances. And now, here it says so very briefly that it appears, but what I am interested in, says that among other things that have first entered drug addiction treatment in 2017, no new case of use of new psychoactive substances as well as 2016 has been reported. Now obviously we're not doing that well. I'll just remind that in 2015 we've had a fatal case of consumption of whether air freshener or whatever it was, it's these new psychoactive substances, canobidinoids in the grass, whatever, synthetics, psychoactive substances, and we haven't recorded anything here that's been reported to be treated and when we look at last year, it's taken quite a wave and doubt that it's just suddenly started only last year. How do you stop it? Of course prevention is the best form, we have heard and heard some data, and I think that although it says later in the text of drug confiscation that in 2017, 10 new types of psychoactive substances were discovered in the form of plant mixtures, powder, crystals and tablets, total I say in 2017, there are 66 individual seizures of new psychoactive substances, mostly synthetic canobioids which are twice as likely to be typeefeller, should be on page 69. 2016., it still writes to you 2017, so here's the thing, just nomotechnically change, so 32 seized. So in 2015 we have a death case, 2016. 32, 2017. 66 individual seizures, and then in 2018, hospitalizations happen with serious health problems and consequences until, say, 2015 alone, when it was that death case, when it echoed, it was 131 seized, and then it happened unwanted, and then it was everywhere and then what happened, people began to think about it, to understand that danger, and then it suddenly fell, and it actually tells us what prevention is, what awareness is media, all of us, and that it really is worth it because it's the only thing that I can produce in 2015 that something was a huge monster, an epidemic, so next year it would fall to 30. The only thing I see is that media columns, televisions, news, everyone's talking about the death of consumption of such things. But it's slowly forgotten. And we're not working enough to inform national prevention and that's the point here. So not good enough. I, in the law that the secretary of state mentioned in the first reading, made a proposal that I hope will seriously consider, whether through the rule, whether through the law,... It's the early tip system that's mentioned here, to allow new technologies to make citizens react to the first occurrence or suspicious of such things, to take pictures and send out, to buy here, through this website I saw at the child ordering something, it didn't, it came, did it because they're changing these chemical properties and then it turns out to be a solid list and eventually it turns out legal. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Immediately act, immediately excluded, immediately banned from selling until analyzed and immediately what the Secretary of State has said well, no longer once a year something... It's a little bit not if it's necessary every day. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There should be money invested, of course, I think that this system may not be too much and expensive if it is made and used that technology, and then that early publication system, of course, along with those options that can be seized, that they may have more benefit, that they can report that as an official person they actually have are their own property when they come across, that they are actually some of the old ones to whom it is not enough, of course that education is the most important, and that I only say this example of a drastic fall from 2015 to 2016, and that I can only bring it into contact, that I do not see some dramatic actions as to action plans or police action or inaction, which would be that the police would have stopped bringing it in, but I doubt that anyone can and systematically make it impossible, that this uneasy event has caused increased awareness, fear and real truth about what happened to people. Unfortunately, God forbid something like that happens to us again so we can have better results. That's why we have to prevent it, and that's how we have to act. Otherwise these psychoactive substances synthesized in order to behave the effects of classical drugs are sold and in smart shops but also in shops... you have on the Internet and there really needs a comprehensive way of preventing, perhaps especially through a campaign on the Internet, on that site where young people go to warn them about those different advertising models, to invest money in this advertising, to highlight all the consequences, not to advertise what they need to buy but to just talk about the consequences of consumption of various things. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In general, we also have behind what is good, and we need a little bit and study the tables of various approaches, so we also have new psychoactive substances discovered in the Republic during 2017 and then we see that the most of them in all 27 objects were, 18 of them refer to that plant matter, which is these air fresheners. We have all kinds of chemical substances, but most of all, it's just this plant matter, so when we look at it, and I think we have to, that it's a new monster, and it's already too late to start working, and therefore, of course, the HNS club will accept this report, and we generally think that any restrictive measures of the ban have always shown that history has shown that no prohibitions, no prohibitions bring any progress, but the opposite will make things interesting, so I believe that also legalization of cannabis would certainly make this most widespread division interesting and put it into certain frameworks and certainly already in the scruples of the public but first and those who follow it so that it is something that we must take into account in the future, but I say once again, more prevention, more work on new substances and certainly more concern for our children and for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129576	It is now up to Mr Domagoj Hajdukovic, who will speak on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Secretary of State with associates, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has already been said about the strategy to tackle drug abuses, to reduce demand, i.e. market availability, I would base my debate on the contribution, i.e., on the highlights that I see very important, which is exactly what my colleague Curaj ended up with, which is prevention. So this report is part of a drug abuse policy, based on strategic reduction targets. The supply and demand of drugs is a multidisciplinary approach to the implementation of programmes aimed at preventing drug abuse and addiction. I will also join those who believe that the abolition of the office, the government's office, especially the government's office with this goal, in fact its integration into the Croatian Institute of Public Health, has shown how much we really care about this topic. We think the office was a much more efficient way of doing it, at least giving it to the importance of such a big problem that not only Croatia is facing. There was a lot of talk about repression, that is, criminal activities, illegal drugs, etc. Because repression is certainly a responsible, forbidden substance. However, when we talk about publicly available and very easily available drugs, it is mostly tobacco, alcohol, and the like. Then I think just because they're available, repression isn't always the answer. Col. Linic spoke, sorry Strenja said she would propose a law on behalf of a club where alcohol availability would be reduced, etc. However, I think that education is primarily very important. The shift is certainly what you have on your cigarette boxes, therefore, warnings. But that doesn't give us the result they want, either, you know what the result is in the end. That men who buy cigarettes, when they get cigarettes to warn them that smoking reduces male fertility, say you can give the one for pregnancy. So it didn't get the results we wanted. What would certainly gain better results is the immigration of the law on smoking bans in public spaces. That would, at least in my opinion, improve and motivate people to quit smoking. So when the law was passed, when it was banned in public spaces, say in cafes smoking, that's exactly what the goal was. But for years, after the law was passed, nothing has actually changed, the only thing that has changed is that there is no smoking in restaurants, and it is not fully consistent. You have situations where non-smokers don't like to go to cafes at all, because they say after they feel so like smoked ham, so, full of smoke, especially now in winter, which was not really the intention of getting this ban, or, that is, the intention was just that, that they didn't have to be forced, passive smokers, they unfortunately became. Therefore, the immigration of already existing legal initiatives would certainly be necessary. Also, many catering facilities do not have adequate ventilation, although they have permission to be smoking places. Therefore, by moving into law enforcement, I think it would certainly improve and motivate people to stop using tobacco products. It's the same thing with alcohol, so we've already been banned from selling alcohol to under 18 years of age. So either they have to buy it themselves or someone older has to buy it, if an old man buys it for them, then he's a very irresponsible person, and if they buy it themselves, if they can get alcohol, then it's clear that the law isn't being implemented properly. Education should be the key to school, yes and must be strongly involved in education prevention of addiction. Doctors say the kuna is invested in prevention, 4 kunas saved in recovery. And we here in this report corner. We're talking about recovery, so the addicts, who are already in that stage, that they've asked for help, and that's what needs to happen, are probably more addicts than those who have asked for help. So we're talking angle. about the recovery, while they should by me, put more emphasis on just putting it on prevention. One way to prevent is to reduce opiate availability on the market, but it's not the only one. The reduction of demand is what is important, because when there is no demand, there will be no offer. So when we talk about school education, all the teachers, teachers, teachers who are classrooms, who work in class classes, etc. have already been involved in the education of students about this either through an already existing teaching programme but also through educational work in our school institutions. The breeding work disappears and that's what's also one of the problems. According to the report, i.e. the statistical bulletin we received, therefore, an assessment of unspecified public expenditure by public functions, comparisons 2015-2017, we see that one of the components is there and education. However, if you look at the amount of education, then in 2015 it is 4.7 million kn the same amount in 2016 slightly increased and 2017 is 4.9 million. 5 million kuna, therefore, generally speaking for all of Croatia with this intention is not enough. It is not enough that the entire amount is safe and not used exclusively for prevention programmes, i.e. youth education and the relevant programme. So it takes a lot more work to do through education reform, and students should also be raised and taught how to be responsible individuals, how to be responsible citizens. One of these is, of course, abstinence from drug abuse. What also doesn't enslave is the type of violent crimes committed by adult prisoners associated with the abuse of psychoactive means, so we got parallel data for 2015, 2016, 2017, and here we see a small but constant increase in tight crime, which has been committed under the influence of alcohol. So 2015. 8.4%, 2016. 10.4%, 2017, 15.1% in constant growth. So they said how much they're available to drink daily, so we're talking about alcohol, how dangerous they can be for social life, for social life, for how much they're present in crime. When we talk about the number of drug addicts and drug users who were in the treatment of social care centres in 2016, we can also see interesting data in certain counties. But unfortunately, in most counties, that number either stagnates, so it either stays the same or is on the rise. These are all the data that tell us that much more needs to be done on these preschools, which is education, that is, preventing young people from being educated about the consequences of drug abuse, tobacco, alcohol, and all other addictions. Of course, when we talk about addictions, we talk about drugs first of all, but we can't mention other addictions that unfortunately occur in modern society, that's social networking addiction, that's gambling addiction and stuff. It doesn't normally go into these statistics but to get in, I think we'd have even more, uh, more devastating data. As someone who has spent a good part of his working life in education, I still think that the answer to all these problems can be one quality school that is not only educational but also an educational institution. It can't, it can't work on only the Public Health Office, not just the Ministry, not even the office when he couldn't do it alone. This should be one broader effort, as said in the report a multidisciplinary approach to actually maximise the impact of all actions that try to reduce drug abuse and other opiates. Therefore, our schools should continue to be involved in the drug abuse education process as much as possible, young people must be informed of the risks they pose when they take and abuse drugs. Knowledge of these consequences is likely to help reduce drug use. In conclusion, the SDP club will support this report but this report is just the tip of the ice santa, the taste of what is done, the statistical review of what is done. We must be more actively involved, therefore, units of local self-government and state and state institutions. We don't have to have special extra costs because there are institutions that can carry it out, so as I was saying, such as schools, social care centres, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129578	Thank you. In front of the HDS, HSLS and HDZ Club, Mr Branko Hrg. He's gone. He's losing his right. And now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129579	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'll be brief, since I said most of what I said in front of the club. So what's devastating, in fact, I would once again underline is the increase in abuse of daily opiates, i.e. easily available opiates, which are tobacco products and alcohol. And I repeat that I think that repression is not the only answer and must not be the only answer, there must be education and consistent implementation of existing laws on the restriction of the use of tobacco products in public areas that are not literally implemented. So this can responsibly argue that certain facilities that have a license as if they could be smoking, let's say the catering facilities don't have adequate ventilation, they don't have an adequate space in which other guests can also enjoy themselves uninterruptedly. So a lot of people complain about it and I think that actually just through consistent implementation of a lot of tools that we already have available we will achieve the maximum effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129580	Thank you, too. Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129581	Dear ladies and gentlemen. In Croatia, we face a catastrophic situation in the judiciary, we face many unfair judgments in my court, we face that our society has been turned into a hostage of a small group of people who destroy us all. Such a situation, unfortunately, can only be changed in the elections because as long as the judicial system has the political support of the ruling nothing will change in our country. The other day a woman came to me here to the Parliament, the lady was waiting for an act, she explained that she was unfair, that the judiciary was like that, and so I say well, ma'am, but if you're going to go to the election. And she says, no, I don’t go to the polls, I’m one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, we don’t vote. And I said well, but I said, do you think you can legally solve your problem. And she believes that in this judiciary, in this country with this kind of authority, she will solve it. But I'm saying, ma'am, I honestly doubt you'll solve it, ha-ha-ha-ha, alive and seen. However, it does not understand as many other people that the judiciary is under the control of politics, that it is the policy that decides on laws, their application, who they will be persecuted, who they will not be persecuted, whom they will be freed, whom they will condemn. After all, it also affects who will be the judge. And without a change of policy, there is no change in the judiciary. What this lady, as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses, thinks that politicians cannot solve problems on earth, but only God can eventually do so when Jesus returns, etc. However, the problem that arises is that with time between the present moment and Jesus ’ return. She did not give an adequate answer to that question in my court, and why, because the one who was able to use this theology of Jehovah’s Witnesses did not think that many people needed a solution right now. Yes, OK, when Jesus returns, but what now, the woman will be deposed, she will be left without a house. And unfortunately, this woman as one of Jehovah’s Witnesses and many other people who do not go to elections are directly responsible for the fact that she is now in power of HDZ or a policy that does many people about the head, especially people who are persecuted, I would say that even politically persecuted because of Indian hemp. I say politically persecuted because they are persecuted for their beliefs. So Juanito's belief is that hemp is a drug, not a drug, and he claims to have produced drugs rather than drugs, but the court disagrees with his belief and attitude and says, no, Mr. Juanito, you've produced drugs intoxicated and sent Juanito to prison for two years. In addition to Juanita, Zakrašek, Goran Zakrajšek homeless, got 10 months of unconditional prison because he dug up his plants, and imagine Juanito's dangerous drug dealer had seven plants, his big drugs, big drugs. And then they, you watch how the police work, that's why I'd dare say, in my court it's one crazy ship, and I'll explain why. They put 7 stems on a scale, they pull them out of the ground with root and then they say they're heavy and they're so heavy, they don't smoke, or they don't consume in any way the stems, and they export whole plants and they say they have.../incomprehensible/... 20 kilos of hemp, and only flowers are taken, when flowers are all put on piles, and there is no talk of any weights, these are heavy nonsense. And this strategy that the government has is aimed at persecuting people like Juanita, chasing young people with grams, two, three, four, five, ten, twenty grams of marijuana. They're like dangerous, dangerous people for this society. You take these dangerous people and you give them fat fines, and if someone has more, and those who are being treated, watch out for multiples, it's a nasty disease, and you need bigger amounts, if these people are particularly hit by this power, you would dare say puppet, servant authorities. And my message to all the sick, all the recreational users of Indian hemp is that until this majority falls, and until the Living Wall forms power, hemp will not be legalized. SDP that he wanted to be able to legalize hemp, but he didn't, he could but he didn't, they decriminalized hemp but what it's worth to you, that when they find you 2 grams is not a crime, but a crime, you have to pay 7,000 kuna, so it's a young man worse punishment than working for the greater good, and they can't even in a criminal court think I'm even looking for work for the common good, it's just reserved for those who commit crimes. It's a very inhuman system and the SDP could legalize hemp farming for health reasons, that people who have certain diagnosis that they can grow for themselves, SDP didn't do it, and HNS didn't do it, nor HSLS about HDZ that I don't talk about. Already, people can only buy it in pharmacies, if there are in pharmacies and at fair prices, what about those who have no money, it is clear that it is not a prescription medicine that this government gives unlike other medicines many of which are heavy and dangerous intoxicating drugs like Heptanon. Heptanon is given free of charge on prescription, and it's clear to all of you that it's a terrible drug, that it causes a worse abstinence of the heroin crisis, and that many of them abuse this Heptanon, and they're stroking it and God forbid and how many of these people are on the Metadon and how many Metadon have killed them all together. You see, Metadon can do the prescription for free even though it's a drug intoxication, and marijuana can do the same to the recipe, but you have to pay it fat, and Heptanon can get free of charge, why one intoxicating drug that doesn't treat anything, and Heptanon doesn't treat anything except to cover up the abstinence crisis, why it's free of charge, and why Indian hemp is chargeable to people who are sick, these are questions that this government doesn't have, and I call on this moment all the consummations of Indian hemp to rebel against this system on election day, to go out to elections, and to tell me that we will no longer suffer the terror of pharmaceutical industries, terror police and justice that are in the service of politics that is turned against people. Against the recreational and against the people who for medical reasons consume Indian hemp, if you who consume Indian hemp do not go to elections and do not support the Living Wall, today or tomorrow you may find yourself in a situation where you will be charged or charged with a proposal, that you will have to walk in courts, that you will be punished by monetary or prison punishment, that your life will be ruined, that you will be persecuted and that you will not be given the right to treatment by the method you choose. And that's all reality, that's what's happening today, that's what's happened in the past, and we as a society have to take a step forward, in Switzerland is like legalized hemp in a way that everyone, but just everybody can 5 stems grow. And they have no more hemp problems, and we in Croatia, instead of doing it, are harassing people. And it's not people like David the Kruljec, he's got a job for the common good, but people like Juanita, who neither blame nor debt could end up in prison and his friend Zakrašek also, and for him, unlike Juanita Colinda isn't answering, I'm going to help Mr. Zaprishek, I'm going to take him up, pardon him, whatever. He only caress football players and people who really need one pardon, they don't need anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129582	Thank you. The replica was sought by Mr. Goran Aleksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129583	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague Pernar, I agree with you, the hemp must be legalized under strict control of course, allow people who are sick to cultivate it for their purposes and allow recreationally as the Netherlands has according to its regulations, so it is not a problem, I think in the Republic of Croatia is a much bigger problem of alcoholism, gambling, betting, against it we do not fight. Alcoholism and gambling destroy Croatian families, there's a small country, 10 times more lost on broken families, no one deals with it, the cube entered during the war in Croatia through cafes, there are automatic clubs, automatics working and even outside the tax system, it's probably a mob lobby that holds it by the Republic of Croatia, and there's nothing the government wants to do and it helps the mob actually rob Croatian citizens and make them sick and destroy Croatian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129584	Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129585	I'll tell you one thing, Mr. Alexic, cigarettes kill in Croatia over 12,000 people a year, so these are terrible statistics. How many people die of that evil? Of course, there are no commercials on television for cigarettes if you will see that cigarette deaths are not reported, only if they take someone known as Oliver Dragojevic and those thousands of people who die, nothing, silence, rape the press. Why do the media keep silent about the deaths resulting from smoking cigarettes? My guess is that the tobacco industry no longer pays for advertising but for silence. It's my guess because I see another logical explanation why about such a serious public health problem, the media doesn't shout out loud and when someone gets sick of measles, they're harassing the whole public for days.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129586	Thank you. According to the 2017 HZZO data. 14,000 even, not 12, the same for precision. - Mrs. Crescent. A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Pernar, you actually have nothing to do with the consumption or possession of marijuana for personal use instead of a crime brought down to a level of offense. I think that's a lot, though. What SDP has done to mean that a person is not being prosecuted and stegmatized in some way for the rest of her life because at one point she owned a joint, for example. And secondly, we took advantage of the opportunity when we had responsibility for Croatia and we made it possible to use medical hemp or hemp for medical purposes, you are right when you say it was expensive but it was still available which was not available until 2014. Both you and we in the Croatian Parliament have proposed to enable and grow hemp for medical purposes, unfortunately for this we did not get the support of the ruling ones. I hope that after the EU resolution voted the other day in Parliament, we will still succeed in the joint forces of the coming years here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129588	Thank you. Mr. Pernar, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129589	And look, ma'am. Voter, you're saying that no more marijuana is in the area of criminal but criminal, but if you're right, then why isn't Juanita being tried for a crime, why did he get 2 years in prison? So marijuana is not decriminalized in an absolute sense, but you just pushed some miserable amounts into the sphere of offense and whoever has a little more, and anyone who needs to be treated has a little more, he's still in the sphere of crime. And that's why Mr. Zacrushek got 10 months. Prison, that's why he dug seven stems, you're not a dangerous drug breeder. And he says I was digging because Juanito was sick so I was helping him, I mean it's, it's a circus and you say you supported the proposal, is, now that you're in opposition, you're now in favour and when you could legalize for treatment, then you didn't legalize it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129590	Thank you, Mr. Pernar. Mr. Cellic, Mr. Cellic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129591	Thank you. Dear colleague Pernar, the methadone you mentioned was a gold standard in the treatment of opiate addiction, so that's the medicine. Medical cannabis is not a medicine but a medicine that relieves symptoms and, according to her colleague Glasovac, where there is evidence-based medicine, it allows the use of hemp for medical purposes and in the Republic of Croatia. You're an advocate of the legalization of hemp for recreational purposes, it's all right, you have the right, advocate it, but as long as HDZ's government, legalizing hemp for recreational purposes, it's responsible for you, it won't be. [[You say Mr. Cellic...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129592	Mr. Pernar, you have your word. Please. [[Intruder Pernar: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129593	You're saying Mr. Cellic that methadone is a gold standard for the treatment of opiate addiction, so here I'm asking you, how many people with methadone have been cured? I'm telling you that only if, by healing, you probably think that someone is not taking heroin but heptanone, but he's still an addict and if he wants to get off heptanone, his abstinence crisis is going to get worse, you know that, so you're dealing with addicts. And I've seen these people on heptanone in general practice. So what do you think their quality of life is good, so it's a broken personality you're saying is that people on heptanon are doing great, is, you know, ask these people how happy they are and what their life is like to have to do every day, to get caught in a crisis that they have to go into general practice for that drug, sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129594	Thank you very much. Let's move on with individual speeches. First, third already already is Mr. Ivan Celic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129595	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is the fact that a colleague of Glasovac mentioned the European Parliament resolution adopted this week, so this is not about growing hemp for medical purposes, it is primarily about defining the concept of medical cannabis, that research is encouraged. You know well that the amendments and additions to the Law on drug abuse require 13 ministries to change, the opinion of 13 ministries and this government has made changes that allow the use of industrial hemp, industrial hemp plants entirely. As far as breeding hemp for medical purposes in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, at this point we are not going to reconsider what we are going to do and how we are going to do it. In EU countries, there is a very diverse legislation, as well as a general approach to cannabis, and therefore there is a question, that is, a problem related to decriminalisation, with the notion of depenalisation and with the notion of de jurisprudence, i.e. legalisation. I would also like to say a brief word here about the 2018 European Drug Report. We are today discussing the 2017 Report for Croatia. When we look at the European report for 2018, you will see that there is data from 2016. Namely, as Secretary of State Dulibic said, it is not possible to obtain fresher data, and then we are always late when we watch the years. The availability of drugs is generally high and seems to be increasing in some areas. Here, above all, is thought of psychostimulative drugs as cocaine, which is the most commonly used and illegal stimulant in Europe. They change the methods and routes of smuggling, it used to be the Iberian peninsula. However, in 2016 in Belgium, it means that these container ports are subject to significant confiscation. So 30 tons of cocaine was seized in Belgium. As European Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction Director Alexis Goosdeel said, the effects of increased cocaine production in Latin America are now felt. However, what is extremely important is to note, therefore, that the production of drugs is increased, primarily I mean these synthetic drugs, psychosimulative drugs in Europe. And at this point, there is a certain change that Europe is becoming the centre from which drugs are exported to foreign markets such as Central and South America, Australia, the Middle East, the Far East and Turkey. The special challenge is also the drug captagon used by the Israelis since we are on the route, some data on the interior ministry related to captagon and the Republic of Croatia have been recorded, and this will certainly pose a challenge for the EU. Still the most widespread illicit drug in Europe is cannabis. Definitely legalisation of hemp for recreational purposes in certain federal states of the United States and in recent times in Canada is a new challenge for drug control measures in Europe and will definitely meet with it, so this wave of legalisation coming from North America will inevitably spill over to Europe and thus pose a new challenge regarding drug abuse issues. New psychoactive substances, they are also with amendments to the Law on drug abuse better regulated now with this new law. There is a system of working warnings within the EU. Some say that this problem of new psychoactive substances is being overly stressed and that the focus is being shifted from classical drugs such as heroin, cocaine and cannabis, which pose a much greater public health challenge, a much greater public health threat. But I think we should talk about new psychoactive substances and, in fact, what is extremely important to stress is that the target group is young adolescents because these drugs are cheaper and thus more accessible. Here, so much in an individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129596	Not so much because you're going to have to answer some lines. The first one is Mr. Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129597	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. When you spoke about addictions, you were more based on the opiate addictions of marijuana and cannabis and this research. But I do have one study that happens with the body while the kids play games for hours. From personal experience, let's say by traveling by bus from Zagreb to Munchen, one boy from 10, 11 years of age has been playing games for almost 7 hours. This study actually speaks of children of that age when it comes to the positive side talking about some critical thinking, body coordination, and motors. But there are a lot more of these negative things that connect to these video games and talk about anxiety, talk about aggression, about unrest, and even talk about a venous thrombosis that can arise. So tell me from your experience as a psychiatrist have you had such cases and what to tell the parents who are following this debate?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129598	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Cell, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129599	Here's what you said about one of the so-called. non-substantial addictions, meaning behavioral addictions. Classic drug, you take something and it works in the brain. So there's no substance here that triggers certain reactions in the brain. However, the challenge, you said well, not only mental disturbances, but also physical disturbances, there have been convulsions due to light, due to sound effects present at these video games. At this point it is a growing and larger problem in Europe, not only in the countries of the Far East and what is missing at this point, so it is a matter of some multidisciplinary approach, a comprehensive approach and there is a question of competent institutions that will have to answer this problem very quickly in the Republic and that is something that should definitely be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129600	Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129601	Thank you very much, fellow Cellite. I'm curious, a few days ago you were talking about the use of cannabis, you even said you had nothing to do with the use of cannabis or not to mind, but you're interested in using cannabis for medical purposes, I'm interested, like, you as a psychiatrist who deals with addiction and you have a lot of experience in that area, my attitude and what I think cannabis is nothing more harmful than alcohol, as far as addiction and potential later addiction to heavy drugs. So, usually people say that people who have problems with heavy drugs start with cannabis, but I'm putting them to start with beer and alcohol, so beer and alcohol aren't criminalized, and in the Republic of Croatia is a much bigger problem of alcoholism than using light drugs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129602	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129603	Well, you've said well, so many times, the problem of alcohol addiction and tobacco addiction that are socially acceptable, legalized drugs is being made available and cheaper, and therefore the health consequences are greater. The Kingdom of Sweden, which is very rich, said, we don't have that much money to legalize another drug. As a person who deals with addiction issues, they can say that addiction to marijuana exists, that there are mental problems that are related to psychosis, when a person becomes paranoid, to so-called. Amotivation syndrome. Yes, I am for the use of hemp for medical purposes according to strictly established criteria. You can treat cancer with curcuma today, you can treat it with butter, that's your choice, but marijuana or medical cannabis is not a medicine, it's a preparation. HZZO spent 117 million kuna last year on the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Medical cannabis is used only for spasms in multiple sclerosis, does not affect to the development of multiple sclerosis. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129604	Thank you. Mrs. Devereaux. Vesna Bedekovic. Oh, excuse me, sir, no, okay, no, no, the last one's Sabina's Voice, there's four. There's four. Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129605	Thank you very much. Colic, I am pleased that in your individual discussion you mentioned the problem of synthetic psychostimulative drugs and that you stressed, therefore, that Europe as one of the essential centres, not only of production, but also of the export of psychostimulative drugs of synthetic drugs, there you have, therefore, associated with the problem of synthetic cannabinoids I would say, and in particular you have put emphasis on young people and adolescents as target groups, and now that we look at statistics, our youth in the Republic are among young people in Europe at almost the highest level. As a profession, how do you view Croatian institutions that are important in raising awareness of this problem, how do they react, and did we, in the Republic of Croatia, raise awareness of this problem as a new trend?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129606	Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129607	My colleague Bedeković, you come from the educational education system and we who are doctors, are always emphasising the importance of the health system, but it is very important and educational system and in all committees, county committees to combat drug abuse, always sitting someone from the representatives of the city or county departments for the education system, is never enough, as counterpart Hajdukovic said, not all can be based on the repressive system, education is important, prevention is important and parents and children from the lowest age should be included in that education.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129608	And at the end of the day, A voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129609	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Celic, you are right when you say that the European Parliament has not adopted a resolution that encourages hemp cultivation for medical purposes, but has adopted a resolution that provides, on the one hand, further research to ensure the quality of medicinal products based on medical hemp, but is also trying to ensure easier access to hemp or cannabis for medical purposes. I think personally that easier access to hemp for medical purposes would provide a more decent price, and surely the price would be lower if we allowed hemp to grow for medical purposes under the regulation and supervision of the state, than to import those preparations from Canada as it is at this point.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129610	Here you go, Mr. Cell.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129611	So, I'm going to point out again, the application of hemp to medical purposes yes. However, it should be made clear, if we talk, for example, about malignant diseases, it is indicated that where opiate analgesics do not act as a medical cannabis can be added, there can be ed he, therefore, standard therapy. As for the cultivation of hemp for medical purposes, I personally don't mind, but the question, therefore, is the question of competent institutions, it is a question of different resolutions that should then be agreed on and set up a regulatory framework, that it is possible to produce hemp for medical purposes in the Republic of Croatia, therefore, strictly supervised conditions are necessary, but if Macedonia can, why not, too, the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129612	Okay, thanks. Now it's Mrs. Devereaux's turn. Vesna Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129613	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. My respect for the esteemed secretary of state and my associates, above all, I need to stress that this report is indeed comprehensive with a range of data that enables us to monitor the trends of this issue in the Republic of Croatia and, in the context of, of course, data in the EU and in some ways, a new report provides an opportunity to create guidelines for action in this area. Of course, coping with drug abuse is the problem of all segments of society and somehow the first association when it comes to this problem is the question of how the health system and the social care system reacts to this problem, and therefore I have a need to come from the education system, to put a little more emphasis on this part of the system and to highlight the role of the education system in the area of prevention of drug abuse. So if we look at the statistics and the indicators in the report, we clearly see that in 2017 there was an increase in the number of treated people compared to the previous year, so also in some way that I'm not repeating numbers, statistical indicators, so 23% of the waste on opiate addicts, the rest of the waste to opiate addicts on other drugs. What I have a need to draw attention to is the fact that the data shows that the number of new people with opiate addiction problems that are in the treatment system reduces what is here in some way indicating that heroin is being reduced in the Croatian market and that we are still making little progress here or there, but what I think needs to be worried about, and in the context of the education system, it is the fact that we have new trends in drug consumption among young people on the market, and I am particularly stressing the trend of consumption of new psychoactive substances in young people, especially here I think of synthetic cannabinoids that are being sold as air fresheners nowadays, as bath salts and similar products, and as someone said, are bought in smart shops. What I do not think so far has been highlighted and really important is the fact that synthetic cannabinoids, that only one atom or part of a molecule in their composition is sufficient, which enables us not to find these substances and not to find themselves on the list of banned substances, and then their free market sales and, therefore, is an even bigger problem, these products are cheaper than other classical products that we know so far, in this way and I would characterise it as one frightening way of adapting the market and purchasing power of the population, and also, especially young people, should also be taken into account the fact that only one taking of these funds to poison a person, so that we have examples of, say, from 2015 in a Zagreb high school where a high school student died after only one use of these funds or, say, 10 cases in Osijek of youth poisoning, remember how to react to anger and reacting to anger. What I find important is the fact that this government has given the amendments and additions to the Drug Abuse Act the opportunity to regulate the abuse of these new psychoactive substances by regulation, which, of course, enables us to establish mechanisms to identify such substances on the market, detect, but also for their spotting activity, and of course, which enables us to make the system a pump response. As I announced at the outset, therefore a significant factor in the prevention of drug abuse is prevention, especially if we understand the data in the report that said 1599 children were registered in the CZSS, of which 82 children, 926 minors and 591 members of the younger adult generation, of course there is, above all, an emphasis on the education system and on everything that the education system does in terms of prevention of drug use in addition to national documents, different action plans, county prevention programmes, school prevention programmes, I have the need to highlight the established minimum standards of child addiction prevention and youth in educational and educational institutions adopted in July if I am not mistaken last year, it is presented at the end of last year, and it is only expected to see in practice the results of applying these standards. And what I have a need to point out as one good example of how long time will allow me, prevention, therefore, is the action of preventive programmes, especially those that operate at the level of our counties and cities and operate in coordination with public health services, administrative departments for education, specifically with schools, here I point out one example from my county, I come from Virovitica-Podravska County where the school preventive programme and the county prevention program has been operating for many years and I really need to highlight a number of activities and mention the names of people who in our field of this problem dealing with above all others. Miroslav Venus at the Institute of Public Health, a fellow psychologist, Sinisha Brlas, and a colleague of the head of the Education Management Department, Mrs Vesna Sherepac, who has had a number of activities in this area for many years and what I consider to be still important, and we have not mentioned active actions in the field of shaping free youth time, which I think is one of the most important means of prevention. And the last thing I want to point out, of course, is the education of young teachers, parents, so the whole community, which I think I don't have to explain specifically, so I'm stressing the importance of so-called. pir education, i.e. peer education, which is related to the prevention of drug abuse and the strong role of NGOs in this area, and as examples of good practice, I point out at least two times as long as I am allowed by NGOs, such as the Community meeting, Zagreb in Okucane and one organization called Independence, which operates in Vrbica near Đakova, which has gone a little further. After staying in the therapeutic communities, therefore, a step further in the resociation of young people through their housing care, and then through further education, retraining and so on in the future life with a special emphasis on women's populations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129614	Thank you, and you have several replicas. The first line was requested by Mr. Goran Maras, Gordan Maras, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129615	Thank you very much, colleagues and colleagues Mrs. Vesno Bedeković, you have warned of this problem which is becoming more and more pronounced in Croatia, and in the future, it will spread to me in various areas that will include our citizens, but unfortunately our children and what worries me, I notice that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and even in this budget for 2019, is treating addiction in an inadequate way than it was before, rather than more segregating money in the Ministry of Science and Education, this year we have even broken up some programs and interrupted. So, on this side, I'm interested in your view whether you agree with me that such programs should be encouraged from the earliest school days in order to somehow get quality education in terms of prevention and what should ultimately be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129616	Mrs. Bedekovic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129617	I have to admit, I didn't hear all about the marbles in the hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129618	Just wait till Mrs. Bedekovic, welcome everyone, but the debate continues, so please let her go because no MPs are heard, please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129619	So I can go on, I can't hear you anymore, I can't hear myself. So of course I agree with you for preventive, preventive programmes should go not only in the primary school period, but in the pre-school and pre-school and education period and in this sense what we did not talk about and we did not have time is particularly important to highlight the educational, educational function of the school, therefore in these programmes, not only educational but also educational, and of course that all of this needs to be accompanied by financial resources, both from the state budget and from the budget of the units of local and regional self-government. [[Intruder: Please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129620	Another replica is Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I am pleased that you have highlighted this very educational component, or the role of the educational system that should be held in prevention, but what I am concerned about, and you have also mentioned several times, you are talking about educational institutions, but our institutions, unfortunately, especially if we are talking about high school, have become more educational and less educational. What concerns me and what we all need to work on together is that our schools become again in the fullest sense of the word and the educational institution. We should do this not only through school reform, so not through curricula but also through education to the general public, parents above all, that school should play that role in their children's lives and that school can help them with their educational tasks, not take them over but help them to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129622	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129623	My fellow thanks to you here on the replica, so a similar answer is to my colleagues, Marasu, therefore an important and significant role, the educational role of the school and, of course, the role of all educational staff of our teachers, teachers, teachers, but also the coordinated so-called action and role of the entire, whole school community, I would say eco, eco-system of the school. Of course, that's not the problem that came up overnight, it's not going to get over it, it's not going to get rid of it overnight, but I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129624	Now it's time for our esteemed colleague, Sagar, and please, colleagues and colleagues, just for a little bit more quiet, so we can hear our speakers, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129625	Thank you, President, distinguished colleague Bedekovic and my replica is related to your mention of the education system, I would extend a little with free time, youth exits that are directly related to this problem, so one proposal which is hopefully your support, and here are the representatives of the ministry, let them talk to the Minister of Finance, perhaps it would be good to model the schools to make zero tolerances of independence in which it would be sold, in which it would not sell alcoholic beverages, of course cigarettes completely prohibit, because addictions never come alone, addictions are always multiple, so in that sense perhaps tax reliefs to such places could be significant, and there should be included Ministry of Finance because prevention is always better than repression.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129626	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129627	Well, yeah, I just mentioned, and I couldn't explain the problem of creating free time as a significant factor in preventing drug abuse in young people. And it is certainly a quality fulfillment of free time and also related to youth dating, places where one of the most important factors in preventing drug abuse is, in particular, taking into account the influence of peers and relationships between peers of age when young people in predolescent and adolescent periods are the most vulnerable and therefore the most exposed to external influences, as well as intoxicating drugs. And of course this idea of yours is certainly welcome. And more to think about structure the free time of young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129628	Comrade Cellic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129629	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Bedekovic, you have rightly mentioned the team from Virovitica, I would also mention the team of Professors. Katarina Dodik Curkovic of the Clinical Hospital Centre Osijek, who pointed to the problem of synthetic cannabinoids and with positive media access sensitized the public about this important problem because, as you said, we had a case, a death case in 2015 due to synthetic cannabinoids.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129630	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129631	Well, I'm glad you're here to support this and to point out another example of good practice. I'm just going to add that maybe there's more to taking into account the fact that exactly synthetic cannabinoids, their perception in public is about their consumption that they're easier than these so-called drugs. Traditionally, let's call them so lay and perception that taking these means like this won't hurt anything. And we have exactly the opposite of the fact that we have cases that, after one consumption, both fatalities and severe comas have occurred and long-term consequences. It is therefore important to inform the public and young and to highlight the very importance of this issue. So I thank you for this example.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129632	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague, Alfirev, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129633	Thank you, Your Honor. My colleague Bedekovic in terms of prevention, I would like to emphasise further, so I agree with most of what you have said, especially as regards prevention. However, we need to keep in mind when we talk about the quality of the prevention of addiction itself, we should also take into account what the Educational and Rehabilitation Faculty said in its research, which is that there is one very problem that attitudes that, those who conduct prevention are not exactly in line with the existing knowledge available in the field of drug abuse prevention and that certainly should be kept in mind that neither the motivation at the level that should be for the introduction of innovative and new programmes, preventive programmes, and we know that money therefore comes from the state budget and should be focused where it is now needed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129634	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129635	Yes, you colleagues have now entered another area, opened another very important area that is important, especially for the problem of drug abuse prevention, which is the education of those who educate. Instead of the word education, I prefer to use the word education, educators. So in terms not only of their motivation but also of providing and obtaining relevant knowledge in this area and therefore of investing in a human factor. There's a crucial human factor everywhere. Without investment in the appropriate education of people who will work in preventive teams, therefore very, much less, we will achieve very little, and I think this is a problem that deserves special attention and should therefore pay more attention to it. And, of course, financial resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129636	Thank you. We will now stop the debate that we will continue after we hold the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129637	We will now continue the debate on the point which is part of the debate earlier, so the individual debate was attended by the respected representative Gordan Maras, who is not, is losing his right to speak, so the next individual debate will be the respected representative of Branimir Bunjca, please. My colleague Bunjac, I have such a schedule, I don't know, well, obviously there's been some mistake, so first the individual respected representative Ante Babic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129638	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. So here, I'll just brief on some of the things that are, maybe not said here during this debate, about this report. I also said something in the replica, which would be very good and which could actually be used through this report which should actually be useful to all primary schools, secondary schools, over municipalities, cities and counties, especially county councils, because the report is extremely high-quality and provides a range of data and information regarding both education and information related to the prevention itself. As a politician, but also as a parent, of course I'm sensitive to this drug problem and in our society, but also other addictions, not just drugs, it's also a gamble today, bookshops, social networks and video games in children. The evolution in this report actually shows how to work with target groups, it is very well shown and therefore we need all those who see one in this social problem, want to see one progress and have to participate. In the report, and through the debate, it is actually the data that is related to prevention, health problems that arise, treatments, prison system and probation. Three things that have not been discussed during this debate, I would therefore particularly like to apostrophe in my individual report. These are the effectiveness and roles of the Centre for Social Care, the resociation of the addicts themselves, as well as research related to the Split-Dalmatia County, which I especially single out, not only do I come out of it, but also because of the increase in the opiate itself. So, Social Care Centres in 2017. they have conducted certain treatments and in fact one part of the people who are related to these treatments have come up with certain data related to the consumption of drugs for children by the age of 19. and young until 19. and those above 19, so until 19. The most commonly and most commonly used cannabis itself, therefore, marijuana, but there is also ecstasy, alcohol, hashish, which is extremely present, space fresheners, synthetic drugs, cocaine, heroin, speed and Galaxy. In adults with these drugs, even the most cocaine and eles appear, as well as amphetamines. So the vast majority of counties have a reduced number of addicts, which should really be praised, however, this part remains tied to the Split-Dalmatia County. In the project of resociation of addicts, which is a hard project and programme implemented by centres for social care and treatment communities in 2016, there were 18 users themselves, and in 2017. 28. It is important to stress that social care centres, along with a number of their activities that are necessary to perform and tasks, also have this task of treating themselves and monitoring the rehabilitation of addicts, which is very important but also an additional pressure on employees in the social care centre. I stress that especially because I think those employees deserve all the credit. As for the Split-Dalmatia County itself through the Institute of Public Health, certain research has been carried out and this research should actually be a guideline for us and for parents who may still be listening to this transfer, in fact, that in these matters related to drugs and addictions, special attention should be paid to children in primary school, especially in high school. So what's good and what needs to be said through these studies has increased the number of high school students who have never had a drink and reduce the number of students who drink daily and multiple times a week. As for drug abuse itself, most high school students did not try drugs, about 82% of them, of the 17.7% of the people who said they tried some tried only once or several times in their lives, while 4.1% of them take drugs occasionally, and 1.1% take them on a regular basis. To shorten this debate, I'm going to remind you of some other addictions that need to be deeply cared for in this society, I say preventively because it costs the least, not to mention the treatment itself and the damage to the entire community. So, as far as video games are concerned, the studies I've received and what I've read talk about are that video games may have in one aspect only one positive side, which is the side of critical thinking, perhaps certain motorics related to children, while the negative side is much more present, which is anxiety, fears, too much aggression in children. And by the end I will mention one of my personal cases, on one road from Zagreb to Munich on the bus about 7 hours a boy of 10, 11 years actually played games for 7 hours. So, this video game problem must be recorded, attention must be paid, and parents themselves must be given not only through this debate but also through what you do should be warned that they must be careful what their children do and how much time they actually spend before, not just these social, social games, but all of what social networks as negatively bring to their children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129639	We have one replica, a respected representative of Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129640	I thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Babic, so thank you for this one instructive presentation that actually reveals the person who deals with this problem in a very professional way. What I would like to add to this, therefore, parallel to this social, and this, I should say to the police activities of drug control should be put to say so to the family, to promote therefore true values, to promote therefore a healthy lifestyle, to promote therefore practice sport because it continues at the end of the child-care process. We have two extremes, so we have very wealthy families where in the race for profit, children are given everything to say better and better opportunities that are then looking for greater and greater excitement. On the other hand, we have very poor families, etc., which also for existential reasons cannot deal too much with these children We have these problems. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] So the family is actually the main station where I think we can help the most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129641	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129642	I see that you've read this report, so it's primarily being, in fact, the highest part being talked about family and those who should follow their children, about their development. Children who are social beings with family and later through kindergarten, through school are actually very attached to the environment in which they live and that environment if it's connected integrally we had through, when we delivered the National Strategy on Sports and actually talked about it, we talked about how good it is to have these extracurricular activities that help parents actually forget through these activities those who are offered on the street or as a challenge, a challenge to even get in touch with drugs. That's why I read that I'm glad because the impression is that kids in high school are very inclined to try drugs for the first time, but this study has shown that, let's say, this isn't the case, but we ourselves are socially responsible people and politicians should work on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129643	Thank you. The next individual debate will be a respected representative of Branimir Bunjc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129644	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Assembly, dear colleagues and colleagues, first of all, I would like to say that there is no point in punishing people who use cannabis as a cure. And it is very hypocritical that these people are being prosecuted as Mr. Luksetic and the government says so they have the right to be treated with it, they have the right but only this right cannot be consumed. It means the right which is a dead letter on paper because this medicine is exclusively imported and it costs so much that, realistically, 98% of Croatian citizens cannot get to this medicine because it is absolutely too expensive. In that sense, the category should be singled out from the Penal Code so that the man who is sick and the cannabis products themselves are not simply prosecuted. And that is what many countries in the world end up doing, like, say, Israel, which not only produces, but also exports it. And here, according to the latest report, they fill the budget annually with about 250 million dollars thanks to the export of medical cannabis so that in fact the state would have concrete financial effects. As far as this report is concerned, it states among other things that 70% of drug-finding applies to cannabis and the remaining 30% to all other drugs. And that's where we have to ask ourselves, actually if legalizing marijuana would free up resources that I don't know police, judicial, so medical and we could actually deal with these problems that are much more pronounced, which are so-called. heavy drugs. In fact, we cannot close our eyes to the fact that 14% of European Union citizens consume marijuana or consume marijuana. That means you pick 8 people on the street and one of them is a consumption of marijuana, and that's something you should just put under control. So, put marijuana in the same status as alcohol and like cigarettes. Because if you can't contain something, and obviously you can't, then you just need to find some other models to control it all. It would be really good to suppress the black market, it would be really good to introduce in some way some sort of cordon sanitary compared to that segment of society and then essentially work on its suppression. It has been shown that often what is forbidden is, in fact, the most interesting thing for people. This was, for example, in the former state the forbidden song "Get Up Bane" and 80% of the people sang "Constitutional Bane". Today, when allowed, no one sings alive or knows that this song exists. We simply think that legalisation would ultimately lead to much less people eating marijuana than it is now. You'd just lose some kind of attraction. So, I want to say the position of the Living Wall, we don't support the consumption of marijuana at all. Moreover, we believe that the consumption of marijuana is as harmful and as harmful as the consumption of alcohol or cigarettes. But we think that legalising or putting the whole thing under control would be significantly less dimensional and simply resulting in less consumption, avoiding all these harmful consequences, such as prosecutions, prison sentences and spending budget money on employees who deal with this issue alone, and as we can see, it does not achieve results because consumption is increasing in fact from year to year. Indeed, it is hypocritical among other things to place such an emphasis on marijuana, and at the same time as some have mentioned we have legalized gambling which is far more difficult to addiction. You can treat a junkie with therapy, but a gambler in 99% of the cases he's been sick for life. Here you go in the streets of Zagreb, on every corner of Croatia there are these casinos, casino Las Vegas, and I don't know what kind of ads there are. The worst of all is that the entire property is lost, people fall into debt slavery, families are destroyed, wives suffer, children suffer. We have the same difficult hypocrisy that Botox is legalized in Croatia. It's the hardest poison on the globe, so it's 100% more toxic than arsenic, but it's legally sold in cosmetic salons around Zagreb, I don't know, etc. not wondering what kind of consequences it leaves for the health of people, and it certainly leaves very difficult. However, I also have to say here that if we really wanted to fight drugs, then we should fight more against imposing foreign values and foreign cultures into Croatian society, and we keep doing so by raising so-called. through globalisation processes, by entering all these possible, impossible integration from the European Union, NATO alliances and then essentially importing these all negative consequences such as drugs. In the United States, 47% of students use crack. You say, new drugs appear. All the new drugs from first to last have an English name, all called in English. Where do they come from? It's back from the U.S. Who produced extasy, LSDI, amphetamines, etc.? Where are they manufactured? Harvard University, in the United States in the '60s. Where did the GMO come from? From the U.S. Where did the glyphosates come from? From the U.S. and cloning people from the U.S. From the U.S. comes this system of law enforcement laws where we have four million homeless and 18 million empty apartments. From the United States comes a system where only the rich can be treated, and the poor can literally rot in the streets. From the U.S. comes all these diseases such as man had never known before with English names Altzheimer, Parkinson and so on, obesity, but we culture, we promote that culture day and night, we promote a culture of materialistic, culture in which the only money, in which the only god represents money, promotes the culture of death, we accept it as our own example, and then we wonder why we have... Drug addicts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I guarantee you that Croatian society is ten times healthier, more moral and fairer than the society that you insist on introducing to us here as something we should follow. Your work, sir, that you're dealing with this question, from the Home Office, it's almost like two hours of practice in a sports court in the morning, and then in the evening you had a case of beers, here's about the way you work. So on one side, you want to prevent something, and then on the other hand, this one, you're going to kind of encourage what you're up against. And yes, I agree, if we were to do some kind of drug prevention, I think we should first start among politicians, those who pass these laws, I think it would be good to have some tests at the entrance to the government, at the entrance to the Parliament, here we see that we have vice presidents of the government who laugh at themselves, that we have mayors whose nose bleeds and can't stop, we see that we have representatives who are sweating in the middle of the winter, who throw toys, they come across other representatives, so we have a right to ask ourselves whether they may be themselves under the influence of some illicit means. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129645	Thank you very much. Uh, I just have to fix it, there's no Secretary of State at the Department of the Interior, you haven't figured out that the Secretary of State from the Department of Health is here. But we have three replicas for you, the first respected representative of Ivan Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129646	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, at the end of your speech, you said that you advocated that all, both politicians and public sector officials, first of all, in all institutions, be tested for, meaning, intoxicating drugs, more specifically. The party is changing Croatia from the outset, it has this attitude, and can you explain how, why it insists on rejecting such a thing when people are unable to make good judgment, if they are influenced by opiates, they are euphoria, we know which institutions are, from financial institutions, from energy institutions, and so on, why, why is it getting away from it? Here I am using the opportunity to say that when citizens give us confidence, one of the first measures will be, the Party will change Croatia when it does part of it, it will be the adoption of a law where everyone will necessarily be tested for opiate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129647	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129648	Thank you, well-respected representative Lovrinović. Indeed, in the Croatian Railways, if you get caught only once with the minimum, minimum amount of alcohol in your blood, you are currently fired without warning, without warning, without the possibility of correction. I don't know about air transport, construction, engineering companies, teachers, civil servants can be unannounced at any time. Look at the regulations, the statutes, the laws, but the sacred cows, the politicians, they can't, but right among them, we have the right to suspect that the most drug addicts are, because they have money to afford. Ask the gentleman at the Department of Health who has the most traces of cocaine on it? On 500 kuna. And they don't, I'm not sure every citizen has 500 kuna in his pocket at all times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129649	The next replica of the respected representative Ljubic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129650	... Mr. President, Vice President. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My colleague Bunjac, it is true, therefore, that most of the inventions, especially in the past and this century, come from the United States, but this very binding, so Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease for America, is not, uh, wrong, so, because Alzheimer's disease bears the name by Aloyz Alzheimer's, so, German, uh, psychiatrist, and Parkinson's disease by James Parkinson's, so, English scientist. Therefore, they are not American, therefore, inventions, yet they are European.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129651	The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129652	Well, thank you, dear representative Ljubic, for this correction, but what is the fact that the rates of growth in this disease are the most recent in the United States, as much as I have read as I have as a layman some literature and articles, there are rates of growth of these diseases that measure several hundred percent in just a few years. So this disease, until maybe 30 years ago, didn't exist, or there was some kind of negligible statistical group, and today it's already an epidemic, and this one, and it has to be asked what causes it. I repeat once again, from Harvard University has come LSD, ecstasy, amphetamines and all the drugs that we fear today and didn't come, I don't know from India, or Sri Lanka, Indonesia and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129653	The esteemed representative of the coat of arms has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129654	I apologize in advance, Mr. Vice President, for fearing that my replica will be at the border of breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if I cross it, please warn me. Comrade Bunjac, the free interpretation of the fact would already be, in itself, to put it this way inappropriate but openly unpastified lie that you have repeated twice, is terrible, even for you, and for the party from which you come. If you had bothered to check what you were talking about before this debate, you would have known, for example, that about Mr. Alzheimer's, what Dr. Ljubic told you, and you might also know that LSD was synthesized in 1938 in Bern, Sandoz's laboratories, and that, for example, the anfentamines you were talking about were synthesized in 1887 in Germany by a Romanian scientist. Please, before you talk at least a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129655	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of the Bunjec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129656	Thank you very much, Mr. Grbin. Could there be a bigger liar than a person who's publicly fighting greetings for home ready, and then drunk in a cafe yelling for home ready and singing a song about Chavogs. Is there a larger hypocrite in Croatian politics than that person who destroys his own party and for this he gets suspension with the goal of not knowing how to touch a false left-hand gap from the ruling structure. These are the questions you should answer. The same representative, who called others as for some other world war and for the victims, was not at a holocaust ceremony on January 27th, unlike the same MP who attacked him as a fascist and he was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129657	Thank you. Let's concentrate on what we're talking about. Since we've exhausted the debate, I'm the one who concludes it and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129658	Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have announced today, we will vote on the debate points, we do not have many but we have many amendments. The first is the report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2017, and I am voting on the next conclusion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies. First, a report on the implementation of the National Strategy and the Action Plan to combat drug abuse in the Republic of Croatia for 2017 is accepted, please vote. I find it unanimous, 114 votes to conclude that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the financial audit carried out by political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government elected from the list of voting groups for 2017 shall be the main public auditor, we shall vote on this item of the agenda in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal from the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion, the report on the financial audit of political parties, independent representatives and members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government selected from the list of voting groups for 2017 shall be adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 109 FOR and 1 vote against, have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the home working body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129664	Dear MPs and MPs, the point planned for the debate, is now groundless, since the Final Proposal for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests refers to amendments to a law no longer in force. In the meantime, a new law has been passed which is in force, which is not covered by the proposed amendments. Since MP Ivan Lovrinović and the HSS Club have not passed the draft law out of the procedure, once again I call on them to do so. If they don't want to withdraw the law from the procedure, of course, we're going to conduct this groundless debate, but here's a chance to withdraw.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129665	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I don't want to withdraw the bill and I want it discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129666	All right, then we'll discuss: - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 237 Proposers are representatives Ivan Lovrinović and the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Peasant Party, based on Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the establishment of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal by an urgent procedure, in accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure. The emergency procedure combines the first and second readings, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture, the government delivered its opinion. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, first of all, I welcome this few literally four MPs in the House, I could welcome them individually, by name, but I don't want them not to object to me and I really thank you for staying, because this is a very important problem to discuss. Also at the gallery, though I don't know where they come from, but I welcome these beautiful young people in folk costumes with probably falcon pairs on their heads, and here I warmly welcome you. Dear citizens have passed 439 days since I, together with the support of the Croatian Peasant Party, submitted a proposal for a forest law in the procedure. It was recently heard that this assembly of parliament has advocated that it is going by emergency procedure, an emergency procedure implies that something should be done within 30, 60 days, then 100 days. But I repeat here it took 439 days for this bill to come on the agenda. And just before, the Vice President of the Parliament said something very interesting, so that this law simply doesn't make sense, the bill doesn't make sense, why? Because in the meantime a new forest law was passed, and therefore, if a new law is passed, Lovrinovic, what you have here today to say. So that's exactly what we want to talk about why? Because you see what a form of parliamentary democracy is. How he works. When I submitted this bill, then the ruling majority headed by HDZ simply stole, tried to steal, the idea from this proposal, and they were exactly, somewhere at the end of the 7th month. In 2018 they simply tried to install it in their law, of course they voted quickly, and in order for this to be, this proposal that I launched with HSS and other MPs, to say so there is no point in discussing it. Now we will see that there are fundamental differences, extremely large, between this proposal and this law, which in the interregnem means, in the meantime, and to the harm of citizens and the Republic of Croatia. I will do this on behalf of the party Let's change Croatia, which advocates indeed a real parliamentary democracy, this is what we do here today. What was the idea of this forest law to change it? When I was a year and a half ago in Croatia Kostanica, visiting, I like to visit, so we from the party We change Croatia, we visit Croatia, from Baranja, Slavonia, meaning, this part of Central Croatia, Međimurje, Zagorje, Dalmatia and Istria, we saw in Croatia Kostajnica because it was, there was a chestnutade and we ask on the road how people live, they approach, we talk, so they say hard, but one of them told me while he was burning chestnuts, says, so can you believe that here, what a difficult crisis we are in Banovina, people move out, industry disappears, etc., and they charge us to read chestnuts in this situation. I ask him if it's true, the man says the truth and the others around him confirm, believe me, I couldn't come to myself. Instead of having people in such areas, in Slavonian forests, in forests in Banovina and in other parts of the Bjelovar-Bilogor County, Istria and so, that people, especially in rural areas, paid to go into the forest, the state charged and banned them from entering the forest. Why? That they should not read mushrooms, chestnuts, asparagus and other fruits of the forest. What was the point of having this ban that, you see, remained and in the new law which HDZ, meaning, like the horseradish, took, tried to take from my, from our proposal, but left that ban, so there was no meaning, be careful, the indicators say that while they were charging for these tickets to the forest, they collected some 100,000 kn just annually from the citizens, and now I'm asking you what the interest of the Republic of Croatia forests is to prohibit citizens from entering the forest if they were collecting only one hundred thousand kuna, it's simply pointless, I just can't believe who passed that law against citizens. And what it means is the possibility of going to our people in the woods, in Banovina, in the forests there, Slavonia, all over, especially in rural areas, so that my people mean everything to them, to us in the city, it may sometimes seem to us, that you don't mind, maybe even nothing, but these people are all, they live there, they contribute to improving their standard of living, they keep watch, they watch the forest. What else can they see in the woods? So they can simply see if someone's burning down the forest, whether there are migrants, whether or not someone's cutting down the forest illegally. You see, but in the Republic of Croatia they banned a citizen from going to pick up chestnuts, mushrooms or asparagus, you can't do that, but you can't do it, but you can't do it, but you can't do it, but you can't do it, and you can get a few kilos of chestnuts or mushrooms, and it's gonna have problems with courts, and it can be a fat punishment, and it can even end up in prison. You see, as a man, it touched me because I draw my own origins with the village, originating in the village, and I'm sensitive to these topics. Our people live hard, and this is how they stop what they are. Now, I'm going to show you that this amendment of the law makes sense, you see, I've printed here, now this new law that this ruling coalition brought there at the end of the 7th month 2018, you see, the title of that part of the Forest Act reads: "No store in the forest and on the forest land" and in the 2nd century says that it's forbidden to continue to shepherding, brush and jury, so you can't let those who live in rural, in villages, by the woods, you can't let cattle pasture there, you can't let the goats fly, you can't let the pigs go, so please don't let them eat, so there's no better way to save the woods from the fire, but just that, so imagine how much less gorilla Dalmatia would make the goats, sheep gush, walk, as they did decades ago, but you can't, but you can't, but you can't make it all the building, and you can't do anything, you know, you can't do anything, you know, you can, you can't do anything, you can, you can't do, you can, you know, you know, you can't do, you can't do, you can't do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can't do, you know, you know, you can't do, you can't do, you can't do, you can't do, you know, you know, you can't do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can do, you know, you know, you know, you can do, you know, you can do, you know, you know, you can do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can't do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can do, you can do, you can do, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you can do, Why can't you still be in force in this new law? The law says you can't collect, carry shush, moss and these forest fruits and other forest products, so that provision remains in the law. Now, I've been told by some HDZ people in the past few days, so he says, "Give Lovrinovic a break of this law, we've brought a new one, it's pointless, don't waste our time here at HS because we have our own business, what are you bothering us with maybe an hour, an hour and a half, etc. However, and I ask why, so I say you still left it in the law if you had at least accepted my proposal that supported HSS and some other MPs, you wouldn't really have anything to talk about today. However, I say, so you have kept the ban in the law, it says it is true, but Croatian forests have brought a new rule where people are allowed to read mushrooms, chestnuts and asparagus. You see, why didn't I agree to withdraw this law, a bill of law? So it's not the same thing to install into the law or in a company rulebook called the Croatian Forests, there the director can be replaced in 3 months, in a month, in two, something can come into his head and he can simply undo that rule and that people have to pay for the ticket to the forest again. So, dear citizens, I hope it's clear to you that the Party is changing Croatia with the support of our HSS and some other parties, we want to enter a provision into the law that citizens can freely enter without payment of fees in the forest, that it is in the law, not in the rule of the Croatian Forests, and that what is done in the Croatian Forests is better than not to talk because it is not the topic of today's debate because I like to stick to the subject, and you see the arguments I'm saying. So, that they have introduced this provision into that law, so let it be named after whoever they want, according to the HDZ, according to the CNS, by the ruling coalition, by me anywhere, I said you don't have to mention me anywhere just to get into the law and that citizens benefit from it, that it's good for them, but you see it's not going, it's not going, because we don't have these political cultures because as Lovrinovic suggested something, so how are we going to let us say that his entry is there, so we can't let that happen because we can't survive it. You see that is a sign of how many people are in the ruling, who are now in power at a low level of parliamentary democracy and identifying citizens' interests. That's the problem I said it was. However, respected fellow MPs because there are no colleagues, respected citizens have something even worse in that law, which I could not suggest at the time because the bill was passed, I will now read to you simply in 30 seconds.../incomprehensible/... in that existing law that was passed half a year ago the Law on Forests writes the following. The title, gaining ownership rights in forests and forest land, is in Article 56, please listen well because this is incredibly and very potentially dangerous for the national interests of Croatia. Under one, forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia cannot be alienated from the ownership of the Republic of Croatia except in the cases provided for by this law, which is said in the second paragraph, by a foreign person and by a natural person who does not have the nationality of the Republic of Croatia or of another EU Member State, and by a legal person who has a registered office outside the territory of Croatia and other EU Member States cannot acquire the right of ownership of forests and forest land owned by Croatia, please listen to this unless the international contract provides otherwise. If you see this last unless an international contract is different, which means that the door is open, that tomorrow you sign some contract to sell to, say, Spačva, state land or state forest and say listen to it we can't do anything against it because it's an international contract you know, he has, he's the boss, so you Croats can stay sawing wood, work for 3,000 kuna, and we'll exploit that first-class oak or means other woods. You see, I'm calling on all MPs whether they're ruling or opposition, so my people are for our kids, let's stop it, let's throw this last one out where it's said unless by an international contract otherwise specified. The Party Change Croatia will seek signatures so that if a referendum is necessary for constitutional changes, one provision should be introduced into the Constitution to prohibit the sale of water, water sites, forests and agricultural land and agricultural land. I remind you that somewhere in mid-2020, on the basis of those negotiating EU accession, it will be possible for foreigners to buy agricultural land in Croatia. We will resist it with our hands and feet, with all possible means, and I call upon the citizens, you are those who decide, there is no power over yours, only we must all understand that we have this power and that in elections we finally throw away people who make bad laws for us, especially those who will make the future worse for our children. In that sense, we see how current this is, what is proposed, but you see the political furniture that so far ruled Croatia, so you are not dear citizens or we, we were not and were not in their interest. These are stakeholders who make their interests come true, not what an individual needs to function better in order to stay in Croatia. For the people who live in rural areas are all to them; behold, let him cut down a tree, or let him begin to read old branches; he will pay the penalty, or he will go to prison. Why, because it's forbidden, but if it's organized, it means it's called wild-cutting, but it's not a wild-cutting in Croatia at all, you know what's wild-cutting when someone goes out overnight, so maybe one tree manages to cut through an axe, pick it up quickly, and drag it away, it's a wild-cut. Well, you can't wildly remember being organized, unorganized, so since this is organized, this is about crime in the first-class, large proportions, and you know what people do, how I drive to Croatia, how they do those who in the wild cut through the woods. You will not see along the road, there they have kept, but if you go behind it 200 meters then you see hectares that are devastationed, the banks that are devastationed, and that means simply developed a parallel industry of gray economy, black money where the logs are sold and threatened means relief of the end, and therefore national resources in the sale-free market by doesn't matter what the price is, it's important that you don't have to pay anything, the purchase price is 0. In that sense, what I come back to say is, why is it unrealistic to expect it to prevent savage cuttings and that this mess is forbidden to the hill, the pasture, the jury, why people can't go, so all this says is that we have one authority or political structure that so far has been working against the people, against the citizens. How to change it, can we change it, and we can do it quickly and we will do it with your help only because you are the only power that can lead to change, so many desired changes in Croatia. We have to prevent further, further devastation of forests, we have to give people freedom to read, it means a lot to them, for the standard, it's people who, or if they do, have small salaries in these villages in rural areas, a lot of them have moved out. And so there's a demographic downturn and they're still charged and they're banned from going into the woods, and they're still cut off by wild construction. When I was visiting Banovina from Kostanica, then the Court of the Union, around the Court of the Uni is mass-cutting. All this says that the state has been stolen from us by stakeholders who, and for the country, have been fought by people, have passed many lives, wounded and so have they fought with their hearts and hearts for a different Croatia, and this Croatia works as they never expected. And the time has come, and it feels like I'm saying it in the air and on the ground that this has to change thoroughly. Now what else is there to say? As an economist and politician, let me say a few words about the potential of the forest. So we don't have any use for criticizing, attacking, throwing wood and stones. How do you manage the forests in Croatia? How? You see the trend in the exports of the hulls instead of shrinking, it's increasing again in the last year, two, three years, and it's increasing again, and it's shrinking, and it's not going through that rhythm as we expect the furniture industry to. The value added between the log and the furniture is 1:7. Do I have an example? Well, we do. Do you know where the export of wood from Croatia grows? Egypt, China. And you know where furniture imports grow from? From Egypt and China. So, we export our tree to them cheaply, and we pay them more expensively, they mean fertilization, profits, technological processing, and the Croats then import it and it's economic policy you see Croatia. This is how economic policy is run. So Croatia or we will never get out of the crisis, we will not live better because there is practically one failed economic policy with a sector called forestry, a forest that is not managed properly. Since Croatia is covered by 48% of the forest according to official data, it is an enormous potential, enormous potency, but do not be careful, the political structures that rocked and rocked Croatia that almost destroyed everything, so they are not turned to new technologies, innovations, production means, according to wood mass, that they do not sell one of them, but times 7, means they are entrenched. No, they don't want it or they don't know it because they're either renters or resellers and smugglers. Other people don't know and don't want to. But that's why we all suffer, and that's why people have to run from Croatia. So I said see, they're exporting logs or boards. The boards are a high stage of processing in the wood industry in Croatia. Imagine that, the logs were still banned. However, the boards are exported, but that's about a very small difference. Who else destroys except, and not to talk about how annual capacity is allocated, wood mass contingents per Croatian individual enterprise, I will not talk about it. That's what anybody's gonna talk about. Therefore, the situation is chaotic. But only for us citizens, but very clearly arranged for those who know what this is about. Why can't we still take advantage of our excellent position with regard to the potential of the forest? Why can't we develop wood industry better and faster? Here you won't believe it, but again for the Croatian National Bank. Why? Because the exchange rate policy it has been leading for 25 years is such that it simply detimises and weakens the competitiveness of Croatian producers from the wood industry on the world market. For years I've been talking to individuals who are directors of certain companies from the wood industry, but these people can't say it, you know they can't say it in public so loudly that the Croatian National Bank is one disastrous destructive policy of the unrealistic exchange rate that is always the same, you see, it's 25 years the exact same, that it destroys. Why? Because if they say so, if they say something and they're from the public sector, they'll be replaced immediately by those who are in power. If they are private, then they will send them 10 types of inspections the same day, that is how Croatia works unfortunately. Why does the exchange rate have a negative impact on the wood industry in Croatia so far? So you see, when you look at it, it really turns out that the most rewarding saw is to cut down wood, remove branches and export logs. Why? Because you don't need oil, electricity, gas, taxes high. So when you start building everything, they squeeze you from all sides, and those costs that have grown in the last 25 years, and the people of the wood industry know that. What? Costs must affect exchange rate change. These are the elements of economic theory. Therefore, if our costs in furniture production grow faster than the competitive factory in Italy or in the UK or Poland, then we must admit it, and this recognition is called the weakening of the exchange rate, or it must be more realistic. And what does that mean? You have to turn it on and admit it's weak. So you can't have a 25-year-old currency and lie to people, the whole people, and convince that it's a stability, that it's a good thing, and in fact that stability, by this unrealistic course of years, you systematically destroy, damage exports, and destroy it. You see, when I was going into politics, I said I'm not going to get rid of it, I'm not going to give up, I'm not going to give up until we've solved these con phrases and delusions, we don't get out of the public space, or at the end, until all those who ran the harmful policy is monetary and credit, I've now explained on the question of the course until they're responsible for it and until they're simple, until they're no longer in those places. We'll never get out of this situation, and others are progressing in large steps, large steps, in a positive sense. So I go back to the essence of this law that was proposed but I simply felt that this was an opportunity to say and extend more why, because wood industry, forests can and must become a basis for developing significant clusters to focus a good part of the Croatian industry on wood, wood-processing industry with a high degree of processing and added value, as Sweden and other countries do, Finland benefiting from it. You see, Croatia doesn't have any, we have as much forest as you want, we don't have, we don't produce toilet paper, we import it. And not to say, why, because it's not worth it, why isn't it worth it, because these are more competitive from abroad. Why are they more competitive? Because for 25 years, the CNB has held a course in the same place. Well, people, this isn't what I'm saying because of the party let's change Croatia, so it's banging on both the HDZ and the SDP, all the parties and most importantly, all the citizens and our economy. Do you understand that this is why we're all on this ship together, all together? And coming back means the essence of the changes that we have proposed, so we propose to change Croatia in front of the party, and it also supports HSS, to allow it to stand in the forest law that citizens can freely harvest forest fruits and others, so that they can release cattle into the pasture and thus prevent it. They say, you know what they say? They're going to eat cattle mycelium there and that, so it's possible, we need to be realistic that it's possible, but please, when someone's tens of acres cut down organized, organized criminal groups, so nothing will grow anymore, you understand, no mushrooms or giraffes, nothing alive. So you're more of a problem with these things than they are with them. And what I appeal to, and I think it's in the interest of all of us, let's delete from the current law the provision that forests can be sold to foreigners if such an international contract is concluded. It's extremely important. I call on all the ecological associations, the conscious individuals, all the people who live on the forest, they are the most conscious, to stand up together, to change this bad law, to preserve our forests for us. Look at the examples of Romania, I saw a documentary a month ago, so it's just a horror. The images from the plane, from the helicopters, cutting down forests, destroying because Western Europe, the developed world, they destroyed everything, both forests and water and agricultural soil. So it must be clear to us that they want these supplies to be as much, as still healthy countries, water and good forests, so they want to take over. How can you not understand that, my people? Let's save it for the sake of our children, for the future. In that sense, I call on you to support even though it is said here, so here, I'll give you half an hour, but as long as you're here to talk, excuse us for a little bit of an act of parliamentary democracy, but our law, which is bad, will remain there. I appeal to your consciousness, I appeal to your consciousness, and here we are chosen from citizens to defend their interests, meaning Croatian peoples and countries of Croatia, forests are too important in every respect, you should not talk about it, but dear citizens, you are the only ones who can change the reality of Croatia and I invite you to the next elections, regardless of when they were extraordinary, regular, that we all light, candle, see and finally new people who are professional, honest and have a clear vision of what they should do, have the courage to pour out what is wrong and do so in a short time and in such a way to heal and change Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129668	Thank you very much. We've got a replica of a respected representative of Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129669	Dear Representative Lovrinović, I have listened carefully to what you have said and I absolutely agree with you, you have appealed to the conscience of the MPs, you have received me, my colleagues from the Living Wall have also received, but the question is whether you have received colleagues from HDZ. Right now, except for the chairman, there's still only two of them here, so they couldn't hear your debate. Moving by nature is a good thing, walking through the woods, planning is good for human health, and I am sorry that people can't or can't without special permission pick up mushrooms or take branches from the forest. Unfortunately, we're living in a society of total control, and I'm going to keep talking about that control. I wonder how you comment on the fact that naked cuts are tolerated and mushroom pickings aren't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129670	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129671	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pernar, I know that the Living Wall has a sensitivity to the issues of environmental protection of natural resources and you show it and show it, but then when you show it, then you become seen, the haranga has risen to 14, 15%, you become dangerous, and now you need to be declared an idiot, ignorant, anarchist and so on, and that will be the fate of all those who advocate for the good of the Croatian people and the common man. When you ask me why they allow one another to defend one another, so it's obvious, it's such a political system, it's one of... The system that has practically turned, it has networked Croatia into stakeholders, clientelism and political corruption, and crime, and we must all eradicate it together.' [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129672	Thank you. Thank you very much. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? No, I don't. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? Yeah. Dear Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture, Zeljko Kraljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129673	... Mr. Chairman. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] By estimating every word of Parliament's representative who has made an exhibition about the amendments and additions to the Law on the Forests, I hope that I have followed your debate well, but of all that you have said in half an hour of your debate, I can responsibly argue that none of the facts you have spoken are correct. The law you quoted, you quoted it only in the part that was necessary for your discussion, did not touch Article 38, paragraph 6, which very clearly provides for the possibility for Croatian forests to regulate this area with their internal regulations. What I did to you through discussions on the parliamentary committees, and in the first and second readings, and when the law went to the vote, I warned that with your proposal it would cause direct damage to more than 500,000 private forest owners, because you are looking in the same way to enter private forests without supervision. Also correct me if I misread or heard your debate, that the entire wood industry is called thieves, speculators, to export logs, I will only repeat because of the interest of the Croatian public, Croatian forests as a public forest owner do not export logs, sell logs and wood mass to Croatian companies through a public call. And so I ask that everything we hear today through your debate, replicas, be truly related to the content of the Law proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and adopted by the Croatian Parliament in the seventh month. It is incorrect that you have said that it is forbidden to walk, the pasture can be carried out in the state forests where the public forest owner manages, but with the terms of the law, and under the regulation adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to prevent them from having a ban on walking, where the young forests, where the forests are renovated, to do the damage precisely to what you yourself have claimed to be Croatia's greatest wealth, and these are our forests. The procedures and processes themselves that are related to the giving of forest land and the preservation of our forests are also very well arranged by the Law itself, which is recognized by the majority in the Croatian Parliament. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129674	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. He is the first respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129675	Your Honor, Secretary of State. It's that I've been talking for 30 minutes, but I don't know what you've been listening to. So, you said that I spoke for 30 minutes and that nothing I said was true, I haven't met a man in my life who talked for 30 minutes, it doesn't matter what he had to call, that something wasn't good, smart, but you don't want to hear 'cause that's the thing, you didn't even listen, you came here ahead with the intention of disqualifying and proposing, and me personally as a representative. You see, not only that, but you put in my mouth what I didn't say, that I declare people of the wood industry to be thieves, see, please don't insult me, and don't lie, I didn't say that, there's a tone record, we can play. If you're here for those reasons, you better not have come.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129676	Thank you very much. The next replica of the respected representative of Lipoščak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129677	I thank the Honorable Secretary of State, the Queen. Although I didn't mean to appear outside the debate on behalf of the Club, I must say that I sign all of that, every word you said, and I'm actually surprised and astonished by such, and simplicity, and in fact the ease of argumenting certain things that we've heard here today, and in fact not knowing or wanting to know the basic postulates of forest professions, the basic postulates of forest cultivation and forest protection, so we've heard on the one hand great concern and protection of forest care, on the other hand, the desire for uncontrollable and parchment, and sands, and similar things, and if we go back a few decades or hundreds of years back, we can see very well what such a hill of pasaring has brought to us on the slopes of Velebit, but also in the rejudication of our most valuable Slavonian forests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129678	Next, the next replica of the respected representative of Prelec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129679	Thank you, Your Honor. I listened carefully to my colleague Lovrinović, but also to the secretary of state, so I would just ask the question, simply, to Mr. Secretary of State, so that he would not be deceived, do Croatian forests have an autonomous right to prohibit or allow the picking of chestnuts in the woods? So, a specific question, yes or no. Do they have the right to prohibit or approve an autonomous Croatian forest? Here's an answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129680	The answer of the esteemed... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129681	Thanks for asking. Article 38(6) states that Croatia's forests managed by forests and forest land can define exactly this thing that you have mentioned now. Croatian forests have adopted the Regulation on the collection of forest non-wood products and have brought the price list. I here have a price list where it is very clear and deny all what the honourable parliamentary representative said, which is that in this price list it says that for every collection of forest fruits for personal purposes an annual permit is issued without compensation. You did not report this to the Croatian public in your debate, and I think it was important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129682	Okay. I would now open the debate and the first one will speak on behalf of the Attorneys' Club of the Living Wall and the power-respected representative Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129683	Dear MPs who are here, unfortunately during the debate on forest management, there are only 5 of us present. I would like to say that the way in which the forest is managed in Croatia is bad for two reasons. One of them is a problem, so-called. He's cutting himself naked. This means that not only the trees that are a certain diameter are cut down. So I can understand if the tree under the quotes is mature enough to cut it down. But we have a situation that indiscriminately simply cuts everything. And then what happens? Then on the so-called destroyed surface there's nothing new and then it's left behind, it's growing ambrosia, etc. That's part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that Croatia is exporting wood, although there is not enough for our needs. Now you're wondering in what way? Ha, Croatian forests don't officially export. However, the fact that I am familiar with the fact that Croatian forests sell wood mass to a variety of people, i.e. companies that appeared in the competition. Then he says the Croatian forests can't then control what these companies with this wood mass will do and that the problem of exporting logs or whatever it is by these companies is not really the responsibility of the Croatian forests, but the responsibility of those people who export them. However, Croatian forests should simply cut quotas for those companies that buy wood from them and export it. If you don't want to process wood mass, we won't be delivering wood raw materials. Now, some of them are pinching their teeth, some of them aren't happy about what I'm saying. However, the fact is that many sawmills, many who deal with wood work, simply cannot get enough wood raw material. And I ask you gentlemen from the Croatian Forests is that true, yes or no? The answer is clear to this question from the protests of many sawmills that there is not enough wood raw material. So the answer is correct. The wood for everyone who wants to process it isn't enough. Then there's the second question. Do Croatian forests run a large forest surface? The answer is to manage. Then you ask the third question. If they manage and manage in a good way how is it that wood does not have enough? According to my assessment, I am afraid that, as in other branches of Croatian society and in Croatian forests, there is corruption. Of course, as long as there's no rightful verdict, no one's to blame. Of course, we can't say that someone is a criminal without having a final verdict behind them. However, the problem we have remains, and the problem is that there is not enough wood raw material. If Croatian forests manage forests correctly, they mean, if they do not work naked, if what they cut and plant new trees etc. Then how is it possible that wood raw materials don't have enough? It's an enigma I didn't get an answer for. I'd like to ask you one more question, and that's next. Croatian forests how is it possible to ask people to have permission to pick mushrooms? Are there problems in Croatia for people who pick mushrooms or are the problem of people who cut the woods illegally? Is there a problem with CMRs? Is it a problem that one quantity is recorded and another amount of wood is kept? Is it a problem that one class of wood, wood mass, is actually another class of wood mass? Is that a problem or is it a problem for people who pick mushrooms, chestnuts, etc.? Unfortunately, I am afraid that Croatian forests are not concerned with the issue of illegal cutting, putting wood mass under a class that is not, leaching more of that wood mass than it is recorded, etc., but rather dealing with small people who go seasonally into the forest, in nature, in walking, hiking whatever they are or picking mushrooms and chestnuts and then dealing with regulation of it. I think that this is the wrong approach and that people should be encouraged to go into nature, that the state should not impose special permits on them. Of course you will probably say that Croatian forests are managed in an ideal way, OK, but if that is the case, then why there are more and more surfaces visited to the ground. Why isn't there enough wood for sawdust that needs wood to process wood? The answer to this question Croatian forests probably have, they have an explanation for any illogicality, but their arguments to me are not personally convincing, and they are not convincing to people who are dealing with wood treatment or who have sawmills. What does that mean? This would mean that there is a certain political will in Croatia that does not agree with the current way of managing the Croatian forests. The living wall definitely represents those people who are not satisfied with the current way of managing Croatian forests, those who want to end this license joke, that people who pick chestnuts or mushrooms must have them, to allow people to pick the branches off the floor because watch out what the situation is today, say, comes, people from the Croatian forest, forests and cut down certain trees, those trees all the branches from them have actually fallen off because Croatian forests essentially need that log, and not those branches, so they give the logs. Now why can't someone on the surface where the Croatian forest has already cut down certain trees and where it is consequently when these trees are peeled, why can't someone take themselves and collect these branches. I think that regulation is directed against man, against men. And those people we represent in the Living Wall, too. There is also a category of people who think that certain, certain sawmills, or we can even call them wood merchants, that they go hand-to-hand to others and those people we in the Living Wall represent. And what the Living Wall wants is for the state to finally take control of the Croatian forests in a way that forbids the naked to be cut down again. If that doesn't work, we'll find ourselves in a situation where we'll have more cut wood mass, than we have wood mass that's created, which has grown, and if we repeat the same scenario year after year, we'll see that the total amount of land under the woods is going to be reduced and it's going to be harder and harder to get to the wood mass and eventually we'll find ourselves in trouble. It is our desire to remove these problems before they occur, and we see that they already appear, so already there is actually an urgent need to change the way the Croatian forests work. It is my wish that there is no crime in the Croatian forests, that everyone works honestly, etc., but from the conversations I had with the people of the sawmills on the other hand, I got the impression that this is not the case. And that's one serious thing, I know that Croatian forests will defend themselves with their hands and feet and claim that they do everything according to the law. However, I explain that they are the ones who are currently interpreting the law and implementing it as they consider it correct. Whether it is in the interests of society or not, the public should ask themselves, especially those who cannot reach the wood mass, especially citizens who cannot go without permission to pick mushrooms and chestnuts or collect branches. I am now throwing a glove in the face of a representative of the government and I ask him if he can explain what a reasonable reason it is, because they will of course always have a reason one, but what is the reason why someone should not collect a branch that was swept out of the wood that Croatian forests like logs pulled out of the woods? Here's my question to which I ask the answer. And please ask the question if Croatian forests are well managed by Croatian forests why there is not enough wood mass for sawmills, furniture factories etc., other questions ladies and gentlemen do not have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129684	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Tomislav Liposjak will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129685	Thank you, Vice President. State Secretary, here is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Forests submitted by Agent Ivan Lovrinović and the Club of Representatives of the HSS. Amendments and additions are proposed, it is said, due to the retention of rural areas, insurance of living standards and the implementation of parchment as elements of reducing the risk of fire. In short, this proposal aims to enable free harvesting and consumption of forest fruits as a social and demographic measure, and to allow pasture, harvesting and milling as a fire-fighting measure. At first, I must warn of several important facts, first of all, this bill has arrived between two readings of the new forest law. In the meantime, it has entered into force, and it defines that the public forest owner, in this case the Croatian forest, can allow free of charge or with compensation, collection of forest products, exploitation of humus and resins. Equally, forest economic plans can predict both the brush and the jury. In forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia, the type of non-wood forest products, the amount of compensation, the conditions for collection, and the way in which forests and forest land are used, the public forest owner determines by means of a general act, with the prior consent of the Ministry. As regards this provision, I will remind you that, by way of effect, the amendments to the Regulation on the use of non-wood forest products of the Croatian Forests of February 2018, which were granted by the Ministry of Agriculture in January of the same year, enabled the collection of non-wood forest products to citizens for personal purposes without compensation. I also cannot agree with the assumption that the outcome of the licence is complicated, that it is necessary to pass a significant path for it at additional costs. Namely, the application shall be submitted to the competent forest administration either by personal or mail or by e-mail. Also in accordance with the Regulation, up to 3 kg can be collected per day for personal purposes of ground mushrooms, 5 spaghetti, 10 kg chestnut fruit, blackberries, raspberries or other species. With regard to the brand, the pasture and the jury, I must stress that they were also made possible by the old Law on the Forests, but also by a new legal solution, but under certain conditions. Pasaring, jurying and branding without limitations, control and intervention of the profession for the result would have devastated the forest eco-systems, and for that we have negative examples in not exactly our long history. However, the legislator foresees the possibility of both the flag and the harvesting on the surfaces determined by the waist, more specifically on the surfaces provided for by the forest economic plans. The Regulation on the use of non-wood forest products also clearly defines the use of forest and forest land for the purposes of pascharting, milling and harvesting in art. 19. So, a bust, a parchment and a jury, yes, it can, but from respecting the rules of the forest profession and the provisions of forest economic plans. And I would also like to emphasise that the commitment of the Croatian forests is not only the creation of profit and income, but also the preservation of the forest eco-system by good management of all forest resources. We can divide the functions of the forest into common useful functions of the forest and those of the economy. And with the production of wood forest products and reproductive material, the production of non-wood forest products is one of the three economic functions of the forest. And, of course, I agree that it is necessary for our citizens to be able to collect non-wood forest products for personal purposes without compensation, just like a bust, a parchment and a jury. Of course, everything in accordance with the existing laws and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the forest profession. Finally, all this has already been allowed and allowed and old legal solutions, but also a new law that has been in force since the beginning of this year, so that this legislative proposal is, at the very least, groundless. Finally, because of the above mentioned and said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support this legislative proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129686	Thank you. The next Club of Representatives was supposed to be that of GLAS and HSU, and the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja speaks, but he is not here, so on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, the next club, will speak to the esteemed representative Allen Prelec, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129687	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, colleague, colleague, well, first of all, I must say on behalf of the SDP Club that we are aware of the meaning of the forest for the Croatian state, we say that the forests cover almost 50% of Croatian territory and we must all be aware of how important it is. But clearly we need to take care of the forest and we should not allow the devastation of the forest, because in this one point of this law it is said that we must not allow the transport of humus, tremors, ballots, resins, and I absolutely agree that we must all worry about it, especially the Ministry of Agriculture, to protect our forests. But here we are in the SDP, thinking that we should not ban the picking of forest fruits, especially chestnuts or something that, here, our people, throws, mushrooms, something that our people traditionally do, and we are absolutely against being compensated for anything they do. Here, we heard from the secretary of state that in the meantime the law has changed, since summer we have been able to pick mushrooms and chestnuts without paying for Croatian forests. I would now say two key things here, which is why we have even passed a law that was in effect before summer, which banned it all, or we have passed a law in which we said that Croatian forests must charge for picking chestnuts and mushrooms. Now, that's the thing that we keep saying in HS, that we're unfortunately passing laws as per tape, here's all by emergency procedure, let's quickly pass some laws, and then let's change them, but they're not so good because certain people or parties or I don't know who we're against, let's change that, let's not happen in HS, we can't make a move on the laws, especially not by the EU directive, and we usually bring them without a lot of consultations, without a lot of thinking, let's not make laws. So, the law needs to be well examined for the benefit of Croatian citizens, so let's bring it in if it is. It says one proverb - if you want to obey the laws, you bring laws that are worthy of respect. I have to say, honestly, this law before summer really wasn't worth respecting, because our people weren't allowed in their woods or in other people's woods to pick up chestnuts that might have failed after a few months, pick up mushrooms. These things can't happen and we're absolutely in the SDP against it and we're going to fight that as simply as little ban as possible. And when we talk about bans, then we are increasingly banned in Croatia full of it. We also forbid swimming on beaches sometimes because there are concessions and that's something that's absolutely going wrong. It's probably also in the animal tax bill, so we'll ban people from having dogs and domestic animals. Against any prohibition, I think we should pass laws that will benefit the citizens, not ban them. Secondly, what I think is crucial, and my colleague Lovrinovic said. We cannot pass a law that allows the autonomous right of the Croatian forests to say – if we now allow fungi or do not allow them. Gentlemen, we must absolutely allow mushrooms without Croatian forests having an autonomous right to allow or not to allow, charge or not to charge. There's no charge at this point. It's allowed, but it's not charged. But let's say that tomorrow someone who's going to say let's change that rulebook. Our citizens will no longer enter the forest. They are dangerous in the woods and will no longer read mushrooms and will no longer read chestnuts. We'll charge it again. This law allows it. It allows someone in the Croatian forest to come there and say that we will change that. That's what we're up against. We want the law to say – fungi are allowed, chestnut picking is allowed, everything we think should and should not harm forests and that does not endanger the survival of Croatian forests. These are the things that I agree with my colleague Lovrinović, it should be introduced into the law. The woods should be protected. They are the wealth of Croatia. But even more so, I think we should protect Croatian citizens and allow them to enter the forest and here, traditionally for their needs, speak to mushrooms and chestnuts. But here's another thing I'd like to say about the woods in general. I live in the country and often go into the woods and it's sad to see a forest full of broken trees, something that's just probably someone who could use a warm one. This is where my colleague Pernar talked about the tree being torn down, the tree being sold, and then the branches staying. I couldn't agree with that. No one defends or at least I don't think anyone is defending, and that should also be the law that might include the owner who doesn't care about his forest that has all the trees, branches and all that, and it stands for years to allow citizens who don't have the money to buy meters, two or three trees to pick it up, pick up that tree and use it for heating. It's really sad to look at forests full of downed trees and branches, and that's how it stands. I always say, the crisis in Croatia is not. It's definitely not when we have such forests and people find it hard to pick up a branch and use it for heating, but it's easier to release gas and heat up on a gas that costs. It is probably not such a big crisis in Croatia, though. Here, that's the one thing that falls into a man's eyes when he's walking in the woods, and then here's the thing he notices. And another thing I'd like the secretary of state to hear. In some ways, all those who steal trees in the woods should be pursued by official duty. Like I said, I live in a rural environment. There's a lot of forest owners who come to the forest after a month, two or maybe three, four years and what 50% of the forest is visited. They weren't coming. Is that their fault? It is. But here I think it should be introduced that a lollipop or one who cares for the forest by official duty when he catches someone who steals trees on official duty to go after him. In this case, that forest owner has to sue him privately, and that's in most cases not done. But here you know that today our people don't have a lawyer and they don't want to go to court except for those who love courts. I think, on official duty, it should be triggered by all those who steal the forest and who do not worry about such things for their own purposes, but in order to sell meters, two, three, five or ten or 100 meters of wood. There's one more thing I'd like to mention. This law also prohibits the picking of moss. I have to say that I was raised in that spirit that we were always sneezing pine and when we were sneezing pines under the pines we were putting moss. I have a forest, but I'm forbidden to read in my moss forest to traditionally put moss under the pine tree. Yeah, yeah, I think that's just how we should think about it. So there's a tradition, there's a way we've always done it the way our grandparents did, so let's respect it. Anyway, here are some things that are illogical in this law. First of all, I wanted to say and support my colleague Lovrinović when he said we cannot allow the autonomous right of the President of the Administration or the Administration of the Croatian Forests to adopt some regulations. Let's regulate it. We are here to pass laws and we cannot say that the laws are bad because we bring them, we have to fix them, and in any case here I support my colleague Lovrinović regardless of what time it may be, but in this part where we do not allow Croatian forests to have an autonomous right to adopt rules on the collection of forest fruits. I think this is quite enough for here one, for one debate, I'm sorry that there are no more colleagues to discuss here, but obviously this is neither the time nor perhaps the topic that is interesting to anyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129688	Thank you very much, now we'll move on to the next one to be the Independent Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Žagar, unfortunately he's not here. Afterwards, the club of representatives of HSS who is one of the proposings, it is rather strange that there is not one of them including a colleague of Lenart who was registered for speech, and for, we will move on to an individual debate. The first colleague, Ivan Lovrinovic, appeared for an individual debate, it is a little precedent that the motioner reported for an individual debate, but this one never happened, but this one will probably happen because I understand the intention of my colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129689	Well, it won't, Mr. Vice President. I'll do the final address. I'll put it together and I'll say it so you can see that I'm cooperative if there is one. [[Intruder: Final, OK, good.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129690	Yes, I don't think you can, theoretically, according to the Rules of Procedure, but the next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Domagoj Hajdukovic, and he's not here either. Then the next respected representative, Ivan Pernar, is gone, too, and the next respected representative, Goran Maras, is gone, and then we will give the final word to the promoter and this is the esteemed representative Ivan Lovrinovic, as one of the promoters, has him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129691	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm really sorry that there are no parliamentary deputies here today, you see when there were questions about the purchase of fighter planes this morning, the planes were broken by spears, fights, accusations, and we need to consider that, and we understand that because it's an important part of the meaning of the defence system, defence policy. But when we discuss forests as one of the greatest potentials of our country, our country's resources, then you see there's no interest. Why? Because this political scene has become radical, so what we need to constructively contribute to all citizens, to our industry, to the economy there is not so much interest, but is trying to build a political position on the spectacle, simply to jump or to make out here in the assembly. From this way we will not solve our difficult problems, we will have to get caught up in, we have to deal with key problems, and what's most important about the woods is how to use the forest to add from this god-given potential to add the highest possible value and make even more money and that the wood industry participates with an even greater process in creating a gross domestic product. You see such topics unfortunately in Croatian politics are not interesting, but such a policy is coming to an end, we can say it rang. Why? So for the simple reason that people are leaving the country, this isn't moving this is an evacuation that means that it's what took the evacuation ratios. We need to understand why it's like that, to prevent them from going into the woods to harvest wild fruits, chestnuts, mushrooms. This government you see a little before the secretary of state no matter what my words twist, and now I guess they'll hear it right. This government did not want to include a proposal to enter their law so that people, citizens, can freely read these fruits, but wrote in the law can, can read and who decides, because watch out for the decision of the Croatian forest company, so I tell you all the time what law is between law and regulations. Here is a moment earlier, my colleague Prelec said, tomorrow the head director of the Croatian Forests can change and he changes the rule and again people can't go to the woods to read, can't read and then again when I go to Croatia Kostanica in Banovina, and I like to visit our traditional celebrations, and you see the area of Banovina, Croatia Kostajnica, Kostajnica and that is the name of bone, chestnuts, if you didn't know it's the area of the largest chestnut forest in Europe, which is also unfortunately attacked by some diseases. Now if it doesn't develop there, if you don't let people use it, and anyway, there's a broken industry, there's an eviction, so how are those people gonna stay there, so they have to evacuate, right? Well, you see, that's not what Croatia wants, of course, and people don't want it like that, so they fought in those woods for those woods, and now you say we won't let them in or it has to be like this because they're going to devastate the forest. Well, please, they're not losers, so you underestimate these people, so these people live in the woods. Well, besides cattle, you don't understand there anymore, and you want something and someone to whine there, there's nothing to brush. Both the cow and the goat and the sheep are simply devastated because you have lost sight of what kind of world you live in, so it is more of a problem for you whether someone is wrongly to rip off a mycelium there next to a mushroom beech than a dozen, hundreds of acres of flooded forests which are illegally meaning illegally, this illegally cut. Well, I remember when I was in the Court of the Union, when people saw me come to a local bar, they thought it showed up because nobody from the Parliament ever came to those places, I sat with them for an hour, we talked, and these are the people who know the situation on the ground, they said listen, around here, they cut it, they're pulling it big. But you know what else is going on? Because interest groups, they use and real diseases well, I mean which really exist, one of them is a subjugator and some of them, I'm not an expert on these issues, but I heard something, so logically I understand, and no, now some parts of Croatia are being used to cut and what needs to be, and what you don't need to see, so that's the state you see, which doesn't work. When we come with the will of the citizens, and we'll figure it out in a few days you understand, it's all known, who cut what, did he have a license, who sold those quantities he got from the Croatian forests, didn't rework it, but reselled it, companies are set up just to resell those contingents, and that's what these gentlemen are going to pay all the bills for what they were doing, right? Because you know when people get raped, they forget that one day a new force can come political that will ask what you've been doing, you know. Well, you see, it's high time for the citizens of Croatia to return faith, justice first of all and dignity, and to show that there are people, new parties, new people who don't care about the spectacle, who are not fighting for power and chair, but who are fighting for the citizens, that they are enjoying our beautiful, in the woods, in the sea, and in the rivers, everywhere, everywhere. So, it's not a problem here that we have to figure out who proposed the Law, so that we don't want to be like Lovrinović in the opposition, you know, how are we going to make this suggestion that people can read the fruits of the forest or that they can let the cattle out, how are we going to classify it so we can say it's him? Well, you don't have to, I told you right away, you don't have to mention me in general, just bring such a law, let people benefit from it, but no, you won't, will you? And that's why you need to be easily decommissioned. So, you need to get off the political scene, and that's it, and the citizens are gonna do it, and you're gonna ask yourself what happened, but that's your problem, so I don't even want to think about it. What I stress again, delete the article or that provision in Article 56, I think, where it says that forests can be sold to foreigners, it is far more dangerous than all the fruits that we mention here, because if a rich Europe, besides what they would say is printing EUR's, not here, and they can print as many dollars as they want, as well as Americans, they can buy everything we have. You see, that's why, what's happening now with the land of the agricultural Agrokora in Baranja and Slavonia, no, you're not going to share it with the small and medium-sized farmers there, the OPGs, no, you want to give it back to the failed companies or companies that worked there, members of Agrokor, and now they're going to be taken over, taken over by foreigners, that's what you want, you're not going to be our man. So that's where thousands of people died, and thousands for Slavonia first of all, and Baranja, and now it means what wasn't militaryly possible to win, now it's going to be seen in geopolitical, geostrategic, now it's going to happen in a different way. There you see, that's the policy. The late Franjo Tudjman to live now and to see it, the man, rest his soul, he just don't know, I don't know how to feel. You haven't been the HDZ since the beginning, who defended, organized the state, you're the ones who are now economically destroying and systematically, with their coalition partners, of course other political structures that were in power. But you need an ordinary man, when you're still defending him entry into the woods, so he can't fight the system himself, against the institutions, against the wrong courts, he can't fight alone, he's turning himself in, he's waiting, he's simply raising money so he can pay the ticket and calling the god of the country, but the Party is not a Party that complains, and that on that or that he's making excesses out of it, we're people who collect experts, honest, brave people, and we're going to show what everything in Croatia can be done, and we can make it up, in five years by 5%, we're raising an annual gross domestic product, and not that we're going down like this in public media, but first of all, you know that industrial production of 6,6% fell in relation to last year, we're going to recession, how it're not clear today and on television and others, but in public media, you know what we're saying, you know, you're grateful, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Well, the poor one who listens to the IMF's advice, and all the countries that didn't rely on themselves and develop their own industry, will eventually come into a difficult situation. So, we're ahead of the recession, which is still data in that contribution, says in that contribution, we, you know, besides being a politician, I'm a university professor of economics finance, so for years, credits to businesses, if credits to banks fall, it's quite clear that these companies are investing less and less in investment, development, and that simply these are indicators of recession. And the population spends less, and it spends less, therefore it also encourages the decline of demand and the appearance of recession, but here it is, of course, trying, of course, to spend huge money on its marketing experts to explain to the people what is bright or what is, not what is bright but what is gray or gray, and so there is nothing. My message here means in front of the parties Let's change Croatia to your citizens first of all that we can really resurrect. I'm optimistic in this regard until the end otherwise you wouldn't be in this assembly, knowledge wins everything, brave people win everything, city experts build, we can do wonders, but until we get rid of corruption, clientelism in Croatia won't really be able to do anything, but the one and those who can definitely solve it are you dear citizens and only in elections will they be extraordinary or regular we'll solve it. And to go back to the woods which today is the topic of this conversation, so that's where you can see who's working in the interests of the citizens and the people or against him. This is where the pranks were made, not that this, that we allow people in the law to permanently read and enjoy forest fruits, no, no, no, once again temporarily give it to the director of the Croatian Forests that he decides when he can, when he can't. So let me ask you and even what you just wrote in the rule book that you can, so whoever's walking after the citizen controls whether they're going to take out mycelium and pick up a kilo or five kilos of mushrooms. You just don't know what you're talking about, but you never knew. Why? Because all that matters to you is that you are in power, that you have syncures and that you stay until the day of judgment, so you want to change the electoral law, so you have silenced the media in Croatia, there is no independent medium anymore, but you will not because when you think that it is settled and that you will stay until the day of judgment from the sky, the lightning will start and everything will change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129692	Thank you very much, here's the line, everyone present in this room, i.e. Both of you. Well, first of all, the esteemed representative of Lipovsčak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129693	You tell your colleague Lovrinović again that he is defending someone, but he is not defending anyone only with certain rules, with certain regulations, so who decides about Croatia's forests, so who else is going to decide on it, but the company that rules the forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia. I only ask you not to chase the state forests which are dominated by the trade society of Croatian forests and private forests. And of course management or not management on such surfaces. I personally appreciate you and, as a professor, I can also say as a scientist, but once again I ask you before the flat-rate statements about the naked memories and about such statements and stories that you actually bring great unrest among the people, please study how to master the Croatian forests. I offer myself to you from my personal library several books about the school of Croatian forest growing, which for 250 years we have organized forestry in the Republic of Croatia and the best natural forests in all of Europe regular management of fertilisation or clean cuttings and combative management of the fighting. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129694	Thank you, dear representative Lovrinovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129695	Dear colleague Lipovsjak, I have no doubt about you and you are obviously an expert in your field of forestry, but there is no question here of a colleague named Lipovsčak that you will father a book or some scientific work, so here you should arrest a number of people in Croatia who illegally cut the woods and introduce order. They don't look, they don't care about books, so try to give them a book, and they'll throw it in your head. This is about the fight against corruption, the rule of law for the dignity of our people and the possibility that from the resources that we have citizens enjoy, and not to defend them, it means getting into the woods, picking fruit that means something to them in those parts, as much as we in the city think it might be the side, it means a lot to them, and we need to know who we're dealing with, that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129696	Thank you, next replica of the esteemed representative of Allen Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129697	Thank you, Honorable Chairman, so I spoke this one in my presentation of this passing law as on tape. So here's what I would ask you, colleague Lovrinović, if you could at all, do you know the motive when we passed that previous law, where we banned the picking of fruits and charged the picking of fruits that was the motive for having passed such a law, I really don't understand what was the motive. If we were protecting these chestnuts, if we were protecting the throwout, I mean, I really don't feel like it's my motive for having ever passed such a law. And you said in one of your interviews that it's actually a set of measures of natal policy, so I would even agree, you may sometimes seem as fantastic as it can be a natal or intelligent policy, but people are really irritated by certain bans, literally irritated by people. It is clear that Croatia has not evicted because of this, but here is only an additional motivation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129698	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129699	Dear colleague Tkalec, you are asking me why this was brought, what was the use of Croatian forests when they were, in fact, the previous structures when they banned entry into the forest. Well that's exactly what it is, the Croatian forests have been incometing about 100,000 kunas a year, and why they banned, why now people don't, not now, now they've allowed the rule, but we said it has to be the law. So they banned entering the woods I'm convinced that people don't look who in the woods actually cuts, it's a wild cut that's the most important part actually. So I don't see any other reason you understand, and why, because when citizens walk around, when they pick mushrooms, chestnuts then they see there that someone drinking something, you know, if they ask him why they drink where this, that, this one won't support it. And what's.../incomprehensible... it's an intrinsic measure, imagine there a young family living by the woods, not allowed into the woods, so they'll go to another country where they can go to the woods, but they'll keep it, but they'll have to get into it, here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129700	Thank you. Thank you. Otherwise, respected MPs are called Prelec, not the Weaver, but well, this one. So I'd like to conclude the debate on this point, we'll vote on it when we get the conditions, and to remind you again, we'll meet next time, hopefully not just the four of us, but that there'll be a full room, so we'll continue working on Tuesday, February 19th, at 9.30 p.m. when there'll be a statement on the amendments. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. SESSION Interrupted at 3:31 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129701	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Forest Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. The 237, nominates are representatives Ivan Lovrinovic and the club of representatives of the HSS. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the forest law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129702	Please, Mr. President, can I say two words before the vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129703	You can't, there's no business opportunity, you understand, I don't, what would you say?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129704	Mr. President, why has my proposal been waiting 439 days, in the meantime, you? We have brought ours, we have adopted [[Intruder: So,...]] Please, here's the word. [[-...that, on that...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-15-0.u129705	You can't do that, you could do that during the debate, and now we're voting on that wheel, I'm sorry, but it doesn't... So I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests, which is not supported by the Government, as well as by the parliamentary working bodies, please vote. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Invadica Lovrinović: 439 days]] I find that with 39 votes there were ZA, 2 were abstentions and 76 votes against, so the law was not passed. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We continue with the work: - Final proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, second reading, P.Z. No. 499 is the first point today. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia This Regulation shall enter into force on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In the event of a debate on this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the applicant's representative to give us an additional explanation. With us is the Minister of Finance, the Honorable Zdravko Maric, come in.
