ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146731	I would like to thank Mr. President and welcome all the honourable MPs and MPs. So, as the president has already said, you have before you a draft bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions. Namely, the Law on Institutions is a fundamental regulation governing the establishment and establishment of institutions in the Croatian legal order. However, given that the law came into force in 1993 and has been subject to only minor amendments so far, it also today contains a series of provisions that are obsolete, which are insufficiently harmonised or too because they regulate issues that are fully governed by other laws. The creation of appropriate amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions is planned through a legislative plan for 2019 The National Reform Programme 2019 provides for the adoption of this law for December 2019, which is also one of the measures in the framework of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Course Mechanism and the Banking Union. The intensity of this law is that the way in which the administrative boards, or other collegiate bodies are established, are able to dispose of profits and supervision of the work of public institutions which are predominantly or exclusively responsible for the tasks of the state administration, shall be governed in accordance with the provisions of the new Law on the System of State Administration, which has already been governed by the arrangements and conditions for the provision of public administration services, general rules and material restrictions on administrative oversight and exceptional normative powers. Also from social partners, but also in the professional public, it has been requested for some time to liberalise the conditions of business of public institutions which are the founders of other legal or physical persons, which perform public service under a special law, for example the provision of health services, where profits are required to reinvest in the development of their own activity. By this law, we will allow these institutions to make the profit of using it in other ways, with the proper application of the rules and with the basis of the decisions of their founder. Moreover, this law will implement appropriate terminology and mnemonic adaptations, as well as compliance with the provisions of the Law on the Court Register, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Criminal Law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on the Right to Access to Information and the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. I expect, of course, that in this first reading, we will also get useful suggestions from you that we will, of course, install into the final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146732	We don't have a replica, so I'm asking and calling the committee's reporters if they'll take the floor? If you don't, then we're going to have a debate, and it's the first turn of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Stipe Sapina, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146733	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Institutions. In the light of the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues to be addressed by this law and the consequences that this law will have on this basis should be noted. The Law on Institutions is a fundamental regulation governing the establishment and establishment of institutions. The current Law on Institutions came into force in 1993, and so far it has had only less changes and additions to the law. From the existing law, to be read, it contains a series of provisions that are not sufficiently harmonised, which are excessive, which are outdated because they regulate issues that are fully governed by other laws. The adoption of this law is foreseen in December 2019, through the adoption of a national reform programme in 2019 as one of the key activities under measure 144, which provides for decentralisation, rationalisation, and with the aim of establishing a general framework or uniform arrangement of conditions relating to the establishment, establishment, establishment, mode of work, type of work, legal status of employees, source of financing and the responsibility and supervision of public institutions responsible for the tasks of the State administration. Following the amendments mentioned and the addition of the Law between other laws or laws, it wants to bring the institutions closer to the citizens as seen in the provisions. For example. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Sisak weekly, Free Dalmatia, Evening list, Jutarnji list etc.. And also transparently... it may be read as referred to in Article 36 of these Amendments and the addition of the Law on Institutions where the legislator provides for the publication of acts on the establishment of statutes and other general acts as well as the activities carried out in the public service capacity to be published on the website of the institution. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Article 39 of these amendments and the addition of the law of the institution also points to the website of the institution which obliges the institutions to publish on their websites and information on the terms and conditions and manner of providing services and performing operations from their activities. This Regulation shall enter into The amendment and addition of the Law on the Institutions of legislators shall add Article 35(3) to which it taxfully states who appoints the representatives of the founders to the administrative council of the institutions unless otherwise specified by other laws. In a way that the Government of the Republic of Croatia appoints an administrative council for institutions that are the founder of the Republic of Croatia. The executive body of the local and regional (regional) self-government unit, e.g. The city, the county appoints an administrative council of the institutions of which it is the founder. The body of a legal person shall be designated by an act establishing an institution to appoint an administrative council of an institution whose founder is another legal person, natural or other legal person, designated by an instrument of establishment, to appoint an administrative council of an institution whose founder is a natural person. This Regulation shall enter into The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions is also an article, which is a kind of newspaper. This proposal provides that the institution may use its profits in other ways than for the exercise of the activity for which it was established but with the proper application of the rules on commercial societies on the basis of the decision of the founder and in accordance with the instrument of establishment and certainly the statute of the institution. Article 34 provides that the statutes of the institution shall be adopted with the prior consent of the founders of the institution and it shall be noted that in the part which provides for the entry into force of the Statutes and other general acts of the institution, the same shall be amended in such a way that it enters into force at the earliest day following the date of its publication. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in The law governing the appointment of the director of an institution in such a way that it is not otherwise established by law by the Institute of Public Competition shall apply if the founder of the institution of the Republic of Croatia or the units of local and regional (regional) self-government (regional) or legal person to whom the founder of the institution is a local and regional (regional) self-government, but that the instrument of establishment may also determine a different way of appointing the director if the founder of the institution is another legal or natural person. This law will implement appropriate terminology and nomotechnical adjustments as well as compliance with the provisions of the following laws: the Law on the Court Register, the Law on General Administrative Procedure, the Law on Administrative Disputes, the Criminal Law, the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Law on the Right of Access to Information, the Law on the Implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation. What should be noted is that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of specific resources in the state budget. The existing law contains 82 articles and this Amendments and Supplements proposal is amended in the 52nd articles. The HDZ Representatives' Club will certainly support this proposal amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146734	Thank you. We're going to another club of GLASs and HSU representatives, but the respected colleagues of Anka Mrak Taritash have no say in the matter, so he loses his right to speak. The third is the Club of HNS Representatives, respected counterpart Milorad Batinic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146735	Thank you, President of the Parliament, Secretary of State with an assistant, colleagues and colleagues. In the first reading of the HNS Club, the Liberal Democrats will support this bill because, just as the promoter said, it is necessary to make certain adjustments, comply with the others, part of the legislative framework, and we believe that this will be a better law in any case than the previous one. However, we have one and a dilemma, and I will try in the part where we have an additional clarification, and I believe that the secretary of state will explain it by finally removing the dilemma of any change to the second reading whether or not we will be able to fully support the law. In particular, Article 4 of amending and supplementing Article 6(2) is amended as follows: ‘The provision of entrusted tasks by the State administration in accordance with the law governing the system of state administration and the specific law.’. One of the obvious formulations that lay does not have to be clear, it is likely that the proponent is all clear, however, what is our dilemma, it is in line with these amendments to the article which says what is changed in Article 6. etc. And let me just read the last sentence. In line with the new law on the state administration system, it is also explicitly found that public institutions can be set up to carry out entrusted tasks of the state administration, which includes, among other things, this is now important, regulatory and supervisory tasks of certain public services markets. There's a problem. There's a problem I'll try to explain. Namely, HERA, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, is founded on the basis of the law, it is regulated under the Law on Regulatory and Energy Activities of the Law, we have the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, we have HACOM, electronic communications, we have AZTN, the Agency for the Protection of Competition which is completely independent and corresponds exclusively to the Assembly and this law, if it is literally read, this interpretation will then correspond to the executive authority, which we consider to be an unacceptable team more than it is, I think, in 2018, we have had certain amendments to the law, here it is, especially meaning that the European Commission has initiated the infringement of EU law and therefore there has been an amendment to the Law on the regulation of energy activities at the 8th session of the Croatian Parliament on 13 July 2018. This kind of arrangement that would come from this, we believe, would be a step back and would not be in line with the EU directive. I don't think I need to explain more in detail, I think that the example is more than good, only when reading this amendment to Article 41, which changes where you are, in part, dare to say, amortise if the law governing the performance of a particular activity is not otherwise prescribed, the supervision of the legality of the work and of the general acts of the institution, is carried out by the body of the state administration in which the activity of the institution is in the part of the circle, and now logically you can correct me if I am wrong. If it is established as a public institution and under this law, then supervision has a ministry. Is that some logical sequence? Regardless of what is not prescribed by the other act, I would ask the secretary of state, I think that it is an oversight or that I am wrong or in the club of the CNS, but I would like a detailed clarification of this or in an explanation, what our proposal is to make a very clear distinction in this Proposal for a Law on Institutions which can fall under this law, which are public institutions, and that this does not apply to agencies that simply have to be the basis of existing Croatian laws. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146736	We're now going to the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146737	I would like to thank you, Mr. President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs. The SDP Club will support this bill in the first reading, we also estimate that since the skeleton or most of the applicable law of 1993 has since been recognised, much has changed, that this harmonisation is needed, however, we are in a dilemma whether a new law is needed or in the form of amendments and additions to the law. I think what Mr Batinic was saying about these regulatory agencies, etc. which are basically an institution, to explain to most of those mentioned by specific laws, but it is good that, in the general law, some things are explained in more detail, so I believe that the applicants will do so until the second reading and do so. It is also clear to me, but it is better to say this once again, and this is the political position on the institutions whose establishment units are local and regional self-government, even from the Law on Local Self-Government from the end of 2012, was the clear political will of the then parliamentary majority that what constitutes an act of authority in the local self-government unit, that more is left to the executive bodies, this was also about institutions and appointments that were not prescribed by special law, although the interpretations of courts have been established that this does not apply to institutions, I think now this proposal of the law concerning the appointment of members of the administrative councils of the institutions, that this means clearly defined. The part concerning the Director remains, and I think it is necessary to write more clearly whether and whether that part remains in the Executive Authority's domain or to be left to representative bodies. Of course, there's an argument for both. So, as far as the institution is concerned, we can say that it is three steps, the establishment, it is a representative body, the appointment of administrative councils is an executive power, mayor, mayor, mayor, and then the appointment of directors, should be somehow if I read the current composition well, the representative body on a proposal from the board of directors, so some agreement between the chiefs and councils should be made if it comes to a case of cohabitation because if it is that they are from the same political options, then it will be relatively easy to reach a political agreement. In the context of this, I would therefore like to hear the motion to regulate the relationship between the representative body and the mayor, although it is not said that this is the law, it is also in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Administration, so I would like to hear thoughts on the matter, because as far as institutions established by the Republic of Croatia are concerned, there is no interference of the representative body, there is no rule in the rule of law unless it is different, so I think that it should, of course, be brought into line with the Law on Local Self-Government, as well for local self-government units. As for the other proposals, in consultation with the interested public, I saw that the city of Umag was quite active in making proposals, so I would ask the applicants to reconsider their proposals, so since we are assessing that the law for first reading is of sufficient quality to support it, we will do so, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146738	The fourth club is the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, Honored Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146739	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretaries with their associate, the Law on Institutions is changing, of course, in our institutions were at local or regional level exclusively drawn from the representative bodies that are the founder of the institution, so at the local level that it is of course the Ministry of Administration, but the fact that the City Council of the Assembly absolutely has nothing more than everything given to the hands of lex sheriffs, mayors, of course it was done by the lex sheriff who Lovre Kušević pushed through and it is a fact and it knows that simply the founder of the representative body can't do anything, and this is visible, but this is visible today and here I have an example in my city where there is simply no majority, but simply that representative body has lost its role and as founder of the institution, this is an example where the quantifiable example is visible, of which you can see in the media where most of the local institutes are simple. However, when we talk about this law, when we talk about the appointment of the director, if there are certain changes, it simply works in a way in the Republic of Croatia to change this law or not, to me about institutions, that the tone of the video that went from Split to Split, before the election of the director of the Split-Dalmatia County's home health, is visible, you can see it in the media, where then the member of the management Ivan Nasic says in a tone shot, a member of the board of directors at home, says in us the prime minister determines who will be the porter, so let him cancel this competition for the director. So in us, the Pharaoh Law, these legal changes, if they're good and they're making something, you can mostly read it right here, that audio record is shown to the public, so from porters to director, it decides on the subject of the Prime Minister's institution, in this video it's visible how it behaves, how it's basically employed, so it's in schools as an institution where the county is essentially the founder, except in certain cities as well. in Makarska di is the founder of the units of local self-government, but the county is the founder and means of schools, primary schools and secondary schools and, of course, it's simply how they operate, I could talk about my county right now, but I'm not going to talk about it, the way the directors are named, the way they come, the procedure and how it's going, but I think everything we put on paper is simply reduced to the word of this tone record where Mr. Ivan Nasic, a member of the board of directors, told us who will be the porter, so let the competition in the health home of Split-Dalmatia, the largest home of health, the largest county that has fused 13 institutions of health homes in 2002 according to Vakusic's law, while much less county, remain independent homes at the level of local self-government units, and therefore we have a problem, the structural problem of home health facility that we have no peditria, that we have no problem with one in the radio. For what? Is the prime minister determining who will be the director and who will be the cleaning lady or an example of the problem of external companies entering institutions is a huge problem. I can specify an example here Airport in Split where women have not received a salary for three months, and Split Airport pays the company iOS gentlemen, I don't know now name, last name, but I can later say who owns it, so the company is iOS which is an external company, an outscore company that gets jobs neatly paid for it, but those women have not received salaries, working on +40, it's slavery. Is the Istanbul Convention being implemented here? Which is why those workers who are going to work in the country of health with external companies would not pay for the health care of the cleaning woman, not to share the money of those who give a job to it, but where the money is the airport, home of health, school, payment of that money, and if the external companies that are going to do cleaning jobs and other jobs, and the money is given to these companies, and those employees are slaves, for 3.000,00 kn, and 4 months have not received the salaries and on +40 days of the night, not only what clean airports, clean planes at +40 and the area around + 50, it is amazing, it is slavery, these women are literally slavery, and our institutions and companies are paying money to those owners, so where that money goes. So here we have to be careful, don't liberalize everything in such a way as to be at risk, in this case, Split Airport workers are an example of speaking, literally these women are slaves, imagine these women who travel to the airport for 3 months, the most difficult jobs do clean airports, clean planes, clean surfaces, and do not receive salaries. Well, it's a crime by God and by man. And that airport or the institution home of health pays the money, it doesn't pay them the wages it's slaves, is it perhaps implemented the Istanbul Convention that you called for or was just brought in to get us a place in the European Council as secretary of the European Council. Is that all it is, or to respect these women as it is, unanimity then. We are unambiguously aware that HDZ has proposed Istanbul, here is a colleague, Babic, who must have annulled me if Istanbul HDZ did not propose a SDP applause, slavery, literally this company, the women entering institutions are slaves who do not receive salaries. I was with them a few days ago. The second thing is very important here, counterpart Batinic well noticed that simply HERA which is a very important company, an institution that gives meaning energy that gives meaning mainly at renewable sources there is it significant. We know what happened to the wind power plants, we know how much money is spinning, how much power, to be responsible exclusively to the prime minister or executive authority. It may be responsible and answer to report exclusively to the founder, it is a parliament. We can't give it all away, break up the council, then we'd better disband this assembly. That's also very important, I'm here fast, which is why I've been asking the question here why teleopers don't behave, Prime Minister, Mr. President, a year ago or so ago. Eight months ago, I haven't got an answer yet, I said I'd get it in writing. I would ask the speaker of the assembly to get answers on time, not wait a year for us to get an answer to the parliamentary questions, and that was during the current hour, he said I would be answered by Minister of Transport Mr. Butkovic. I have not yet received an answer why teleopers in Croatia do not behave as in countries where they come from. And now we're going to disengage from HACOM so we don't have to be held accountable by anyone who won't give me an answer, which is why teleopers don't behave in the Republic of Croatia like that. in Germany why HT is acting in us. Why doesn't he pay the right of service, why not a tribune of building permits? That's what we've been asking for amendments and amendments to the law, I've asked for changes to the law that require a building permit for base stations, you haven't accepted it, and yet I see changes to the Construction Act are going on again, there's no part of it, but simple structures have been put in place, so we see that we have huge problems setting these antenna pillars wherever they fall into memory. So, this law is a technical law, it changes certain things but we must not disenfranchise the distinguished secretaries until the second reading, or future ministers, I can see that yesterday you were mentioned that, we must not disenfranchise the Croatian Parliament as a representative body and I think that my colleague Batinič well noticed that until the second reading you pass. Once again, I expect you to change this matter by the second reading, mainly in terms of these institutions that have been destroyed. So the law that it's all, that the best written in applying is desperate, I repeat to you once again, primarily, about a company owned, for example. County such as home of health, the health care home has been torn apart. Unfortunately, these services were better organized 30, 40 years ago, mainly in rural, rural areas such as Dalmatia County, Split-Dalmatia dishes, hinterland, Slavonia, and your Lika-Senj County is behind. The character, then, was better organized homes of health. It is now simple in some counties that these health homes are fuzzed, I repeat as in Split-Dalmatia County, people have lost health services, no pediatricians, no money has been invested in what he was trying to invest in specializations, so let me tell you an example that in the Cetina region in 10 years the Split-Dalmatia County has not paid any specialization for any doctor. Therefore, it is not only a problem that is written here a bigger problem is this means only the letter of the law, but I am more concerned by this video where the president is administrative, that one of the members of the administrative council at home of health Ivan Nasic quotes him in the video: In us the Prime Minister determines who will be the porter, so let him cancel this competition for the director of the Split-Dalmatia County. Now imagine we are passing a law that will determine in the local self-government of counterpart Šipic, who will determine, and the president, and a member of the Split-Dalmatia county board says, a member of the administration who would like to appoint says, let's call the prime minister because he decides who will be a porter in Trilje in a health home who has something, something very few, and it's destroyed, we know that there is no pediatrician, we would like you to raise Mr. Šipic that voice because we don't have health services, our children. My colleague Šipić, our children may one pediatrician of 3,500 people, 3,500 children I think this is a disgrace if this tone is credible, and we have not received a denial I can show you, that the director, is appointed to the House of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County to be appointed directly prime minister of cleaning, if this is true what Ivan Nasic said and if it is credible then it is worrying. I think that delivery is more about writing these laws and these pamphlets, disenfranchising parliaments, disenfranchising representative bodies, it's time to preserve these health services, to protect schools as well as institutions from being named by the prime minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146740	We are now going to an individual debate, she is the first colleague of Sabina Glasovac but she is gone so she loses her right to speak, the second is a respected colleague, Gordan Maras, gone, lost his right to speak, and the third is the respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, who is there, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146741	Thank you very much, Your Honor, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. In fact, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on institutions is necessary, I would say that it is really necessary to set up administrative councils, directors and so to regulate in all institutions, would say uniquely. Namely, the institutions are regulated by a number of regulations, so one of them regulates kindergarten work, the other in public open schools, public units, memorial centres, and there we have unequal practice, even different interpretations of courts and court practices and different ministries. For example. The town of Vodice has as I have here and listed the meaning of the library, and the popular open school and public fire department, kindergarten, one administrative council has been appointed by the mayor of the executive body and the other by the representative body and is even more problematic until the appointment of the director. In fact, the Preschool Education and Education Act, which regulates kindergarten work, says half of the board members are appointed by the founder. According to the current interpretation, it is the ministry, it is the mayor and, for example, in interpreting the appointment of directors, it is the city council. When it comes to the law on the management of public institutions in culture, it explicitly says that the administrative council is appointed a representative body. Speaking of the appointment of administrative councils by the founders, there is something clearer than the proposal of the Board of Directors for appointment. We don't know, and it would be good at least by this law to say whether there's only documentation going on, whether there's going to be a test based on which the board of directors makes a decision to appoint a certain director. Furthermore, the Administrative Council shall decide on a designation in which there is no need for an argument, so it shall not have to stand the reason for which they have opted for one or another candidate. It's a big problem and we had a problem in Vodice when it came to the court, namely the court insists that there be an argument. How then the founder will explain the decision of the Governing Council when there was no testing, when there was no specific documentation and it explicitly decided by the Governing Council. The city council has practically not even seen the candidates and it has to make a decision and they should explain the reason for the appointment. These are all the things that would be good if they were standing right in the Law of Institutions so that there would be no difference in the appointment of the principal of kindergartens or the director of the library or the general public of open school. Hence, there are still some misunderstandings, so we suggest that we consider it until the second reading. For example. whether the decision on the non-election of candidates has the property of an administrative act. There are cases where an executive director should be appointed and there should be seen what conditions are and how to cross that period from when one candidate has expired or for any reason has been resolved, until the appointment of another. Furthermore, whether it is allowed to challenge the legality of decisions taken when the director is prescribed to be appointed by the adoption of a complex act, e.g. in agreement or confirmation of the other body and as a rule, administrative disputes on the subject are very common. If any of these acts do not comply with the law or the candidate is not satisfied with that decision or wants to dispute. In addition, the non-professional part-time professional status of director or acting director, with a possible explicit ban on the conclusion of a contract on work at the Director's office indefinitely, bearing in mind that the term of office has been appointed. There are situations where the same administrative council makes an illegal decision. The law stipulates that the Director should be resolved and why, if the decision is made by the Board of Directors, why should the Director be touched when it is not his decision but the decision of the Governing Council. All of these are things that would be good if they were standing right in this roof law so that different institutions with their laws don't regulate it, and then of course in practice we have often newspaper inscriptions, here's the same situation in kindergarten is solved like this, in the library and the like. It is also the actual jurisdiction of the courts in the cases of the Director's discharge. So instead of the wording of the competent court, and there are doubts there, so it would be good in this Article 45(2) to stand exactly. The law also provides for three types of supervision of the work of the institution. So the supervision of legality, financial business and professional work and not explicitly mentioned, there is supervision by the founders of the institution. I think it is very important if the founder is the one who appoints both the director and the board of directors that it also decidedly states that he has the right to oversee the work of the institution and it would be good in these transitional provisions to regulate the application of the law in relation to the already started and completed actions means these appointments and so on, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146742	We have one replica, my colleague Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146743	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Juričev Martinchev, this Law on Institutions passed in '93. Mr. along with some small novels did not really change, which means that it was necessary to adopt this Law on Institutions, and you have pointed out actually some of the problems that should be considered in this first reading as other colleagues today in the debates, which should be considered until the second reading precisely to be recorded in this Law on Institutions, so especially about the appointment of a director. I agree with you, let's say with certain institutions that there are no criteria actually in the appointment of a director and in cases where it ends in a court of law, the court actually requires an explanation of the appointment, and there are no certain criteria. I think that should be stated by this law or tomorrow by the Ministry itself, but that this should be taken care of and how the practice has shown that for the same situations There are different ways of doing things. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146744	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146745	Thank you very much. My colleague Babić is true, and I believe that in the second reading of the law, the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Institutions will decidedly stand by who is the Founder, who appoints the Administrative Council, who proposes the Director, and in what way, if anything, at least all these relevant ministries should, when it comes to different institutions, provide some kind of guidance so that they can classify themselves precisely because there is a big confusion and there are numerous judicial disputes, and as I have said in the paper why one director, because he is more dear or less dear to the mayor, is appointed mayor and another city council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146746	Okay. A fellow Grmoe called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146747	Thank you, Your Honor. So, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club, my colleague Bulj was talking about the situation in the institutions, political staffing at the University of Health of Split-Dalmatia County, but unfortunately political staffing does not only destroy our health care, it destroys our companies and I am looking for a break to consult, 900 Aluminium workers ended up on the street because of political staffing carried out by a party who unfortunately led to this situation. No one reacts to that, the government is silent even though it has 12% of the shares, 20% of the Ploče port's activity is related to Aluminium, I can't hear a fellow Ljubic, I don't hear a colleague Raguž, no one stands up for these workers, for our people in Mostar, and this way I want to show them solidarity and support and ask for a break to consult on it. It's simply inadmissible that no one reacts. Thank you, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146748	You know that this is a classic violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I don't know why you're doing it, you've got a lot of ways how you could have communicated it differently, you could've called a press conference, you could've made a statement, I agree with you that the Aluminium issue is extremely important, it's been a lot of work to help both aluminum and people out there, but what you're doing in my opinion is abuse of the Re-institution Institute and for that reason I'm going to give you a heads-up and I'm not going to grant you a break. And I ask you not to do this because there are once again ways that a man can both counsel and counsel talk about a particular topic. And what you've done is not correct. So now I ask my colleague, Nekic, the Secretary of State, to address finally on behalf of the motionary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146749	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you here and everyone who participated in this debate and who gave constructive suggestions, if I understand this whole debate correctly, so we have two topics that have opened up for us in this first reading. This is the first issue of the agencies, and the second issue of the director is especially with regard to the part concerning the units of local and regional and regional self-government. So this law and the concept that represented the Ministry of Administration to solve all institutions through this law, that includes agencies. You know there was this other concept that agencies are dealing with a special law. This law is, the intensity of this law is to create a legal framework means because as she said and colleague Branka means there are special laws on museums, on the mere universities, on archives, on libraries, all of these are laws that regulate the meaning of institutions from their domain. As regards the appointment of directors and local administrations, we did not go into details on the European Charter of Local Administration, resolving these issues by this law. So these issues are mostly settled by the statutes means units of local and regional or regional self-government, but we are willing to listen to all the arguments of course and upgrade this law. We have plenty of time until the second reading if we estimate that this is meaningful and that it will ensure a better quality means system. As far as the agencies are concerned, the agencies are regulated means of both their establishment and their work by special laws. I have not been able to read from this observation that we are changing something from Article 4 or paragraph 2 which you have mentioned or that we are leaving to the executive authority means powers that she has not had so far, but I am sure that in writing, you will provide us with your indication that we will study thoroughly, so that we can respect the parts that we consider acceptable. I don't think I've forgotten anything about what was said in this debate. We expect, of course, all the suggestions and thank you for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146750	Thank you. We have three replicas. He's the first fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146751	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary, I believe you will answer these questions of the second reading. that in the second reading, when you send this law that will be changed, however, the key problem is always humanizing. I repeat all the laws of my colleagues and colleagues that we bring to staffing. I will repeat that the video came out as a health care officer, I quote council member Ivan Nasic: In us, the prime minister determines who will be the porter, so let him cancel this competition for the director. That's why my colleague Grumoja is right, because he has colleagues Raguza, which has no Ljubic and no voice, because of the staffing, there is now another factory in Mostar where people are hard to survive, the Aluminium factory. I'm also supporting and I hope that everyone will support that. Unfortunately silence... Croatian state co-owners of this, and poor staffing has led [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] until breakdown and institution [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And the company. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146752	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146753	Thank you. Well, I didn't deliberately respond to what you said. First, you chose the wrong example when you mentioned Split Airport, so it is not an institution at all and it is not the subject of this law at all. So I expected you to make some concrete contribution to the debate in a way that points to what's wrong with this law. Unfortunately, in your debate, I say, these little mistakes, you haven't made any suggestions that should change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146754	Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146755	Thank you, Mr. President. Namely, the proposal came from the debate to make a very clear distention that the regulatory agencies, we all know, are executive agencies. Because this reads, and I would only, so when you look at the EU's Parliament directive, 2009 means national regulatory bodies, what they should do, there is a very clear shift and quote, meaning that regulatory bodies do not seek or receive direct instructions from any government or other public body. So there must have been very clearly different and the proposal was, because so did the art. Four changes don't say anything about it, but in an explanation, you've covered it, so here's a clear suggestion that until the second reading this dilemma is removed otherwise we don't have a problem with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146756	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146757	So, we're going to make a thorough explanation for the second reading, but I think it's in the article itself. 4. there is nothing to be touched with reason, I hope you accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146758	And my colleague Bauk, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146759	Thank you. It's also my recommendation, Mr. Secretary of State, for this part of the appointment of directors, council, chief, whether in the intersteps... It is not normal for me for parliament to adopt an administrative act. Parliament is making laws, political decisions, declarations, but not administrative acts. In my opinion, and the council, the representative bodies are parliaments, therefore, there is known who the majority is, who the minority is, that some appointments relate to political relations, therefore, in this part I would be more inclined to leave it to executive and administrative bodies and that they adopt administrative acts which are then subject to judicial control, so my suggestion is that what you do for an article. 4th, i.e. Art. 6. to explain very closely how you imagined it to look according to what the text of the law says because the courts also look at the arguments when they want the intensity of the motionor... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146760	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146761	Here, you'll get a broad explanation as in this previous case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146762	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146763	Thank you very much, President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Club MOST for 10 minutes so that we can all consult once again and say that all the proposals you've made on this bill are essentially different. I have cited the example, dear secretary, as our directors are named, which is a tone that came out of the member of the Board of Directors of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County. Also, so it is done in schools owned by the county, meaning, the way this law is applied also to respected secretaries or future ministers, I have pointed out here a problem where institutions have external members, and of course the airport is not an institution, but in another law is defined, but I was talking about external companies that we have in our country of health anyone you want to impose in schools. Where black women work, they don't get paid, that's what I pointed out. And in this law it is mentioned that we have the meaning of external companies that will do certain jobs, such as cleaning, for example. in the homes of health. But I did give you an example of how they treat the airport's money from an outside company that's not an institution, but 100 women haven't received their salary in three months. It is the founder of Split, Split-Dalmatia County, Kaštela and Trogir. Where's that money that paid off? Which is why these women wouldn't be working in the country's health and being employees until now. Well, we don't have a doctor in a health care facility. Well, you know the problem in Face, so you come from these parts and of course it's the personneling that's the biggest consequence of the way you do it. Here, a member of the Board of Directors of Health of the Split-Dalmatia County as, in us, the prime minister determines who will be the porter so he can cancel this competition for the director of home health. Once again, that's why the Aluminium factory happened now. Thank you. Humanizing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146764	Okay, here, you can consult now within the party by 10.45, and we'll conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will continue, in 10, 45, by proposing the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts. Thank you. It's 10.27 o'clock. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions, first reading, P.Z. Number 657. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Institutions and other all objections and proposals will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 107 for, 1 abstention and 2 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146766	We're going back to work. And here's the secretary of state, so we're all in formation. ... Good afternoon. - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 656; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by Committees on Law, Justice, Family, Youth and Sports. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Mr. Juro Martinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146767	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. This draft Act amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts is therefore proposed to amend and supplement the Law on Juvenile Courts. The reason why, by transposing and implementing Directive 800 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the harmonisation of national legislation with the acquis of the EU, is the number 800 of 2016 on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused of criminal proceedings. Although the juvenile criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia is already largely in line with the provisions of the Directive, it was necessary to make certain amendments and additions introducing new procedural guarantees for minors suspected or accused in criminal proceedings which would strengthen their procedural position. In this connection, the draft proposal prescribes provisions on the content of lessons about minor rights in such a way as to extend the content of the lesson on the rights of the prescribed Criminal Procedure Act which is subject to subsidiarity in relation to minors when criminal proceedings are conducted against them or against them. Rights belonging to a minor depending on the stage of the procedure shall be subject to the obligation to provide information on the rights of minors, his parent or guardian or other relevant adult. The right of minors to accompany parents, custodians or other appropriate adults during the procedure shall be prescribed. The mandatory defence of minors shall be moved at the earliest stage of the procedure. For the arrested minor, a medical examination shall be prescribed upon request and that a minor who will spend 18 years of his life in a closed office. In addition to harmonising the Law on Juvenile Courts with the Directive, it was necessary to comply with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure as well as with the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. Dear gentlemen, therefore, this is a criminal matter that regulates both the material and the pheasant norms when children appear as perpetrators of criminal acts, and this applies to our youngsters aged 14 to 18. So in one category are 14-16, the second is 16-18 but this applies to younger adults who turned 18 and at the time of the crime, they still haven't turned 21. There is a draft of this law before you, so that's what I had before the promoter the need to order you at this stage of the assembly procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146768	Thank you, too. If they want, and I'm sorry, we have one replica, colleague Ante Bacic, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146769	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, there is only one short question, in every seat of the court in the Republic of Croatia we have a youth department, whether the ministry is considering setting up specialised courts for youth, i.e. Specialized courts for the family? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146770	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146771	At this point, the Ministry of Justice, as an expert body of the Government, does not have in the project specialised courts, although in theoretical circles and the most specialized circles, it sometimes advocates it as an idea, but given the relatively small number of such procedures, the question is whether it would be from the point of view of the effectiveness of some speed was justified. Undoubtedly, after some time, a better quality of trial would likely be achieved. And so it's present as something among lawyers, especially among legal practitioners, but the Department of Justice is not going for now with such an idea.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146772	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? A colleague Jelkovac, a colleague of Miljenic and a colleague of Turina-Đuric? If I don't open the debate. First on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Col. Ante Bačić. Here's the only chance I'm taking to welcome the representatives of the UK Embassy in Croatia who joined us at the gallery. Welcome. Here you go, Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146773	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, these are the 4th amendments to that law, which was passed in 2011. The first amendments and additions took place in 2012 in line with the Penal Code, 2013 have been amended in order to comply with the Criminal Procedure Act and in 2015 in connection with the terminology of the legal text. These are note 4 of the amendments and additions to the Law on Juvenile Courts, the championship of this, as we and the State Secretary noted, are only for the purpose of harmonising national legislation with the acquis of the EU, more precisely with the implementation of the 2016 European Parliament and Council Directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. I suppose it mentions some of the amendments that the Youth Court Act will bring to this and the debate and this proposal by the Ministry itself, meaning to start removing a particular doubt and the shortcomings of the former law itself that have arisen from practice but it is important to stress itself the procedural guarantees of the Council and Parliament directive which will ensure that children or persons under 18 who are suspects or defendants in criminal proceedings can understand and follow this procedure, exercise the right to a fair trial, prevent children from repeating the criminal act and inciting their social integration. Our criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia is already largely in line with the subjects of the EU's Parliament and council directives, but these amendments were also necessary for the purpose of the procedural position of minors themselves. As regards the implementation of the Directive and certain articles of the same, a obligation shall be introduced through 3 to 6 to inform the parent of parental responsibility on the rights of minors, i.e. the delivery or delivery of lessons on the rights of minors to parents and guardians. Article 53 b concerning the implementation of the Directive provides for the right of minors to accompany parents of guardians or other appropriate adults during the procedure, which I think is particularly important in respect of the procedural rights of minors themselves. During the trial before the court and the court proceedings, a minor may always exercise those rights. Circumstances are prescribed that a minor will be entitled to accompany another appropriate adult and the conditions under which a minor will be able to waive that right of escort. As regards Article 84, representatives of the CZSS and the court’s expert associate will also be invited to check whether significant changes have taken place in relation to the data collected and only mandatory defences of minors are being moved at the earliest stage of the proceedings. As these amendments and additions to Article 63 relate to the medical examinations of the arrested minor, the conclusion of the results and the use of the data themselves relating to medical examinations has been recorded and it is important to stress about Article 12, which is to ensure that a minor who is 18 years old during the duration of the investigation prison will remain in a closed office if justified in the light of the circumstances of minors and if this is in line with the best interest of other minors who are together with him. As regards Article 76, it is related to changes in the CAP regarding the investigation of a police minor, there is the first evidence action to be carried out by a state lawyer except in emergency evidence actions in a situation where a minor is not investigated by the police or by a youth judge. They have also been amended in relation to Article 1 of the victim’s position in the criminal proceedings itself in establishing minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of criminal offences. The proposed amendments no longer bind the powers to bind minors only with criminal acts of violence, it is important to stress that this is the way and allowed independently of the type of criminal offence if a minor is dangerous to his or her own or other person's life or safety. The amendments to the decisions and delivery of other memos to the minor himself are also proposed, with the reserve that a minor’s decision will not be delivered with the emphasis on the court’s advertising board, and a minor will also be informed with the defender. We think that by implementing that directive of the European Council and Parliament, no matter what our Penal Code is quite adapted to this Directive, and heeding the rights of minors in criminal proceedings, when suspects or indictees are but with this we are still strengthening the procedural rights of minors so that, following all these things, the HDZ Club proposes that we adopt this amendment and supplementation, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146774	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go, Comrade Maras. I'm sorry, it won't happen in an individual debate, do you want something final? Thank you, I hereby conclude the debate on the amendment and addition of the Law to the courts for youth, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 656.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146775	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts, first reading, P.Z.E. Number 656. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts and Others, all objections and proposals, will be submitted to the Proposer to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 103 votes for, 6 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146776	We continue with: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 628 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and Justice, does the State Secretary want an additional explanation? Here you are, Mr. Juro Martinovic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146777	... MPs, you have before you the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the EU Member States has regulated the area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters between the Member States of the Union and the law in the domestic legal order is transposing EU legislation in this legal area. This law regulates the forms of judicial cooperation prescribed by EU legislation. In the first instance, the European arrest warrant, then the surrender procedure, the guarantee order and the evidence, the European order for obtaining evidence, the recognition and execution of orders for confiscation of property or objects, the recognition and enforcement of decisions on fines, the recognition and execution of judgments imposing a sentence of imprisonment or a measure involving the withdrawal of freedom, the recognition and execution of judgments and decisions imposing trial measures and alternative sanctions, the recognition and enforcement of decisions on precautionary measures and the European Protection Order. The final draft law proposes 6th amendments and additions to the law, and the reason for the re-amending and supplementing is primarily the implementation of the provisions of the EU Parliament and Council Directive No. This appropriation is intended to cover: 2016 on legal aid for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and for wanted persons in the process on the basis of a European arrest warrant. The objectives of both Directives are to establish minimum standards in the area of procedural rights of defendants which also facilitate judicial co-operation based on the principle of mutual recognition by strengthening mutual trust between Member States. The law on criminal proceedings and the Law on Juvenile Courts which regulate the rights of accused persons in the domestic criminal proceedings requires an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Juvenile Courts which regulate the rights of accused persons in the domestic criminal proceedings, and which are subsidically applicable to proceedings under the European arrest warrant. As you have just heard, therefore, we are in the process of amending the Law on Juvenile Courts, and the Criminal Procedure Act is also a working group that has finished its work and it is going towards this EU directive. Following this, the article has been amended. a law governing the rights of the requested person in the execution of the European arrest warrant, and a new article relating to the child's treatment as the requested person in relation to which the European arrest warrant has been issued. The opportunity was used to improve the existing provisions and technical content, in order to achieve greater clarity and consistency with other applicable legislation of the Republic of Croatia, by intervention in the provisions on the European arrest warrant in the section relating to the conduct of the received documentation relating to the European arrest warrant. Provisions governing the enforcement of telecommunications supervision, as well as provisions on the subsidiarity application of the relevant laws. The bill was passed in HS on 9 May this year. In the discussion at the HS session, there were no objections and no proposals in relation to the content and text of the law, and the remarks of the technical nature of the HS Legislative Committee were accepted in this text. At the meeting of the Section for Economic Co-ordination and Structural Reform of 17 June this year, there were no objections and the final draft law was referred to in the subsequent parliamentary procedure. On 4 July 2019, at the meeting of the HS Legislative Committee, the final draft law was unanimously adopted. The usual vacatio legion of 8 days has been scheduled since the publication in the National Journal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146778	Thank you, too. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? A colleague of Jelkovac, a colleague of Miljanic's? If not, I'm opening a debate. First is counterpart Marko Šimic in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please welcome fellow Simic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146779	I would like to thank the vice president of HS, the honourable state secretary with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the next minutes, I will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States based on Article. 178 and 192. The Rules of Procedure of the HS, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, sent an act to the President of the HS on 27 June 2019. The EU has entered into force a law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. This law complies with the EU acquis in the part governing judicial cooperation in criminal matters, i.e. the part in which the principle of mutual recognition is applied to decisions taken by foreign judicial authorities during the criminal proceedings, as well as after its enforcement. The area of judicial cooperation within the framework of European law is clearly dynamically and rapidly changing, both by the practice of the competent authorities and by the practice of the EU court and by the legislative acts adopted under the European institutions. In view of the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it can be concluded that the treatment of minors of criminal offences is not yet uniform and neither are their rights sufficiently protected. The analysis of case-law cases concluded that underage perpetrators of criminal offences found in different countries, despite the existence of international instruments, were differently sanctioned. Despite the unique international documents, the disproportionateness in sanctioning and treating minors has been detected. Although there are a number of legal instruments at international, European and national levels, there is an inequality in legislation and practice with regard to the protection of children's rights in all proceedings, in particular criminal cases, which is illustrated by numerous cases and the case law of the European Court of Human Rights. Given that the objective of the Council of Europe is to achieve unity among Member States in a way to ensure the effective application of existing binding European standards for the protection and promotion of children's rights in the domestic legal order, EU legislation in this legal area is implemented. It is the sixth amendment and addition of the Law on judicial cooperation on the basis of the adoption of the relevant provisions of the two directives which I will look forward to in the coming minutes. We will first mention the EU Directive 800/2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe of 11 May 2016 on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused in criminal proceedings. The intensities are on the criminal protection of minors as perpetrators of criminal offences, primarily that directive would apply only to criminal proceedings. The purpose of this Directive is to establish procedural guarantees which will ensure that children are therefore younger than 18 years of age who are suspects or defendants in criminal proceedings, can understand and monitor this procedure and exercise the right to a fair trial and prevent children from repeating the criminal offence and inciting their social integration. For minors, there are special courts with a stronger emphasis on educational measures, retributive sentences instead of prisons, institutions of the educational type with increasing involvement of social care services, pedagogical and social professional treatment. A special system of sanctions is being built that aims to act preventively, educationally, protectively, educationally, correctively, with an exceptional prediction of the punishment of juvenile prison only for the elderly and for the perpetrators of the most severe crimes. In the Croatian judiciary, provisions were continuously adopted and repaired, upgraded in accordance with the general principles of modern juvenile criminal law. The adopted normative solutions were not blindly prescribed from a series of provisions regulating the procedure against minor perpetrators but were already evaluated and adapted to needs. Furthermore, it also includes the implementation of Directive 1919/2016 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the EU of 26 October 2016, which is directed as measure C from the Guidelines for strengthening the rights of suspects in criminal proceedings and whose aim is to provide legal assistance for suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and the persons requested in the proceedings under the European arrest warrant. The purpose of this Directive is to ensure the effectiveness of the right to access a lawyer, to make available the assistance of lawyers paid by a Member State to suspects and defendants in criminal proceedings and to persons sought subject to the procedure on the basis of a European arrest warrant based on a Council Framework Decision. Among other things, the provisions of the directive provide for the right to information, the right of the child to inform the holder of parental responsibility, the provisions on the right to an attorney, the right to an individual assessment, the right to a medical examination, the special treatment in case of lack of freedom, the right to protection of privacy, the right to children, to attend and participate in their own trial. Similarly, in the context of the harmonisation of national criminal law, the following rights have been identified. The right to legal assistance before and during the trial, the right to interpretation and translation, notification of the grounds of doubt and of rights, special procedural protection for vulnerable suspects and defendants and the right of foreigners who have been deprived of freedom of contact with the consular authorities of their country. This Directive lays down common minimum rules, a minimum expression is used as it represents the lower threshold or minimum guarantees for the protection of defendants in a dispute with a state which cannot be reduced because otherwise, it would lose balance between the defendant and the state repressive apparatus. Member States should help to extend the law laid down by this Directive to ensure a higher level of protection, such a higher level of protection should not constitute an obstacle to mutual recognition of judicial decisions whose adoption of those minimum rules should be facilitated. With regard to the adoption of that Directive and its provisions, it can be concluded that it should be of significant assistance to all Member States in criminal proceedings involving children as suspects or indictees. This is because children who are suspects or accused of criminal proceedings should be entitled to an individual assessment in order to identify their specific needs in terms of protection, education, education and social integration in order to determine whether and to what extent special measures will be necessary during the criminal proceedings and to determine the degree of their criminal responsibility and the conformity of the individual sanctions or educational measures to be imposed. As part of these amendments and the addition of the law, an opportunity has been taken to intervene in the provisions on a European arrest warrant as the most important instrument of judicial cooperation among EU Member States. All EU Member States, including the Republic of Croatia, have a duty to ensure the achievement of the best interests of a child who is of primary importance in any action affecting children, this is particularly important in cases where children or minors are involved in criminal proceedings. By creating justice, it is tailored to children, improving and protecting children, increasing the possibility of their more meaningful participation and at the same time improving the work of the judiciary. In view of the truly diverse solutions to modern world but European juvenile legislation, it can be concluded that the Republic of Croatia does not suspiciously belong to a circle of states with a relatively advanced system of juvenile criminal law. In addition, given the implementation of international standards in Croatian juvenile law, it is concluded that the Law on Juvenile Courts has fully accepted the recommendations of legal instruments that protect children's rights and all in order to protect the welfare and interests of minors. Following the above, the HDZ Club supports the adoption of the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146780	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, the application of colleague Pernar Ivan, please welcome colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146781	Dear Chairman, we are here to discuss international co-operation with other countries, but I am holding in my hands the criminal application of Boris Simunic, according to this paper against the former USOK deputy director. The dream of Ljubicic and the witch of USKOK Vladimir Krklec. And what's this about? It's about the fact that the criminal report says that, contrary to the May 2010 finding or against the law, the state's money has been overpaid by the findings and the opinion of the May 2010 witch Vladimir Krklec, and what is this about? The applicant of this application or the paper that I received in my hand, beware that Vladimir Krkec, according to USKOK, has invoiced almost 11 times the amount prescribed by the Rules on Permanent Court Witches.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146782	Dear colleague Pernar, please don't be angry, let's stick to the subject, you have some other instruments of work in HS to use, so this topic that really has nothing to do with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Cooperation, so I don't want to disturb your micro-cosmos, but please stick to the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146783	Thank you, my dear. My intention is not to claim that the statement is true, my intention was just to ask if it was possible to be true and whether it was possible to not act on it, but actually I'll be back on the subject. For nothing, we are talking about international co-operation with foreign legal institutions when our own judiciary is on the verge of despair, when our own judiciary is not working. I'd like to say that many objects last for years and that they don't have an end to them. Cases of countless criminal applications that stand in drawers in some way raise doubts about the honesty of our legal institutions, and in fact the question is whether it is possible for the Croatian state to be deliberately obstructed and that political elites are actually keeping us all in agony and in a stalemate position, while pretending at the same time that they care about some European values, talk about cooperation with them, etc. So, what can I tell you, dear people, you know, everything is clear to you, you realize that this system isn't working, and yet even though it's clear to you that this system isn't working, what seems to change things? Absolutely nothing. We had a case, he says we'll have international cooperation, so here's what our local cooperation is, look at the Virovitica case, allegedly 5. The money was drawn, so it's not about the small amount, it's about 17 million kuna, where was the state audit? How come the state audit didn't keep an eye on him? In the end, if a man was killed or killed, it's hard to tell because the autopsy wasn't even real, and it's one big shame for our country and no international agreements can clear that up, all of your stories about cooperation, about certain European values, European courts, European legal norms, European regulations, so you're burying us with these European laws. However, what is Croatian reality is that we are working with Europe in what way? In a way that public notebooks don't carry out their errands anywhere in Europe, and they do. We co-operate with Europe in a way that we prohibit the enforcement of RBAs to cooperatives from Austria by law, and then the European Court of Justice knocks down the decision of our judiciary and what does this cooperation look like? So we simply accept their decisions and, yes, to actually end our country's sovereignty. Why does the Republic of Croatia end its sovereignty? But what is most tragic is that the Croatian people are constantly convinced that we are depriving ourselves of our sovereignty because it is in our interest, not even saying we are deprived, but saying that we share sovereignty with others, our own, be careful not that someone else is handing over a part of our sovereignty to us but we are handing it over to others. And finally, this law on that legal cooperation is actually a dead letter on paper. And here's why. So you have the INA case, Zoltan Hernandi, if I recall correctly, when will he be extradited to the Republic of Croatia? Never, that's your legal cooperation. It's all a big farce, it's all eye-snatching and the creation of an illusion that something is done in the Republic of Croatia in a state of justice, and nothing is actually done. It's all eye rub. I remember when Kalinic was, I think Sretko Kalinic, when he spoke to Maja North at the show, said in fact that the media are the ones who are covering up the real situation, I apologize, Pavle Kalinic spoke to Maja North that the media who are responsible for hiding the real situation in the country and unfortunately as far as we see we are not moving in the right direction, but rather not only to tap in the place, but in some cases we are going to reverse. And I finally ask the question if we are capable of international co-operation, how come we haven't been able to check it out for so long from a criminal application against former USKOK deputy director Sani Ljubicic and USKOK expert Vladimir Krklec. Why don't we just say that application is rejected and why isn't it said if it's really handed over by Boris Simunic, why don't you say it out loud, it's not overpaid, it's all right, there's no basis for any persecution, why? I'm afraid or I personally didn't see that this criminal application was rejected and so I guess it's in the drawer and I'm wondering what kind of message we're sending to our citizens, so just look at what Todorovic was doing, where it was a state audit, he was getting millions of loans from HBOR, there's no one who didn't give him money at the end ate a wolf donkey, nothing, a man laughing. I remember this farce where he was extradited from England, and now it's all over. The Croatian legal system functions as a coroner. So, when a man is killed or killed in Virovitica 17 million kunas are gone, now that it's all over, here come the state institutions. We had yesterday in Djakov, a murdered social care center employee, a man in a coma, and now they're all saying they need this, they need that, right? Well, then we're a small situation with Todorovic, only when it's all gone down, then the state institutions start snooping, etc. I think that in Croatia we do not have enough coordination within our own legal institutions and that this law will not change it and that in fact this law is also like the previous laws that come here on the agenda just a dead letter on paper. Land re-purposes from top state officials, where the country is bought at one price, and then re-purposed and sold i.e. cash for 10 times the price. These are all jobs that happen legally in Croatia. And why is that? Because we have the law on the side of a stronger one, even if it is not, or when it is not, it is apparently interpreted to protect itself more strongly. And I can only make my own, my bitterness with the work of state institutions and I believe that many Croatian citizens feel the same way. One man sent me a message saying that his performance came in, if I remember correctly from the B2 Capital, that his account had been completed for a debt of 3 kuna, says as much as I remember the loan I returned then I saw the amount of 3 kuna, did for 3 kunas be spent in Croatia. None of you care. He was talking to HDZ about changing the Implementing Law, so where are we with these amendments to the Implementing Law, so change the Implementing Law. You haven't changed it, you've lied to people, you've lied in the past, you're lying now, you're going to lie in the future, you're going to be the poor one who trusts you and who supports your policy. And I call on the Croatian people to stop voting for Colinda just because she is a beautiful woman because he personally has no use for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146784	Thank you, Comrade Pernar. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. We also welcome the delegation of the Centre for War and Peace Studies of the University of Norwich UK, which are guests of the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and guests of the Defence Committee, welcome. Now I'm setting a break until 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. [[Applause.]] Continuing at 12 o'clock and 30 minutes. It's 11:00.25.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146785	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, second reading, P.Z.E. 628. The applicant is the Government, the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find it unanimous 109 for, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146786	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING AT 12.30 HOURS]] The following point is: - Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy; it is proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget under Article. 14. The fiscal responsibility law. I would like to ask the esteemed chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, Grozdan Peric to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here you go, fellow Peric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146787	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. The new Fiscal Responsibility Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2019, speaks of this provision. 13. that the Committee on Fiscal Policy has 7 members who are elected to the 5-year term. Art. 14. The president and members of the commission shall be appointed by the HS, all on the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the HS. Art. The selection of the President of the Commission was organised on 15 and 16. 17th century 2 prescribed that the Committee on Finance and the State Budget were proposed by the members of the Commission to the institutions referred to in Article 1 of this article, which are the State Audit Office, the Economic Institute Zagreb, the Institute of Public Finance, the CNB, and one member of the Faculty of Economics and Law, from the University of Zagreb, Split, Osijek and Rijeka. On the basis of the proposals submitted by authorised applicants, the Financial Committee and the State Budget of the HS set out at its meeting held on 27 June 2019 a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and this is proposed for the members of the Commission: Vesna Kasum, representative of the State Audit Office, Dr.sc. Maruška Vizek, representative of the Zagreb Economic Institute, dr.sc. Vjekoslav Bratic, representative of the Institute of Public Finance, Dr.sc. Maroje Lang, representative of the CNB. From the order of the representatives of the economic colleges is the extraordinary Prof. Dr.sc. Domagoj Karačić, who is from the Faculty of Economics from Osijek and from the order of representatives of the Faculty of Law, doc. dr.sc. Zoran Shinkovic, who is from the Faculty of Law Split. Here, that's, that's suggestions. So, members of the commission are elected for 5 years and based on the procedure envisaged, we propose that these candidates be confirmed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146788	Thank you, board president. I am also opening a debate on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Bačić Ante. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146789	Thank you, dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here, as we have been informed on behalf of the Committee of the President on the Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility and Provisions. 13. to choose a committee of seven members on the 5-year term. It is not bad to mention the commission’s own tasks. From the law itself, Art. 22. and that is to consider and assess the risk of applying the fiscal rules set out in Article 2. 6th, 7th and 8th of the law, in the medium-term budgetary documents and the annual report on the implementation of the budget, the examination and comparison of macroeconomic budgetary projections and medium-term budgetary documents with the latest available EU Commission projections and the follow-up of the EU Council recommendations to address the situation of excessive budget deficits and public debt and to give the Government an opinion on the temporary postponement of the application of fiscal rules in the event of exceptional circumstances under Article. Ten of these laws. We believe that this commission will be responsible for carrying out all the duties and functions set out in the very Law on fiscal responsibility. As for the members of the committees, here and, not only on behalf of the club, but I am pleased that from the representatives of the law school, here is my professor, doc. Zoran Shinković, who is from the Department of Economic and Financial Sciences of the Institute of Economic and Financial Sciences, Information Sciences and Statistics, is a member of the Association of Lawyers in the Economy, as well as other members who are listed here by the Committee. I believe that we have chosen well and that they will be well represented by their institutions, which they have proposed to the Commission itself, and also do their duty in a high-quality and responsible manner. Following the above, the HDZ Club proposes that we adopt this proposal for a decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146790	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. Next individual debate, colleague Shuker Ivan, please welcome fellow Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS, colleagues and colleagues. I am honestly surprised that this item of the agenda is no longer discussed for the simple reason that here in this House we very often listen to discussions like this, such as this, and today we appoint representatives to an independent body and when you look at only the provisions of Article. 22, 23., 24. what the body is doing, then they would see that it is to all colleagues, including those who are a narrow specialty with those who are not special, an exceptional basis for the debate on the draft state budget, on the implementation of the state budget, in the end, the Fiscal Responsibility Act is a law that only strengthens the implementation of the State Budget Act. And this is just one of those laws where a debate should be held in the House and we would be very concerned about who the representatives of that body are. Because these are the laws of the explicit states that they must not represent the attitudes of the body from which they come but must be exclusively guided by professional thinking, attitudes, etc. For the second time already, we have practically opened a tender for the President of the Commission, but unfortunately we have not received adequate proposals. Why? Because this area dealing with this commission is a narrowly specialised area and very few institutions are working on people who could lead the commission and be members of the commission. Because when you look at institutions that have proposed their members by function, then you will see that these are highly specialised institutions dealing with fiscal policy, implementing fiscal rules, tax policy and everything that makes fiscal policy. And I'm saying, that's why I find it strange that, in fact, no other club has debated any other club except the HDZ club. I am surprised by colleagues who often hold unargumented lessons about the situation of macroeconomicity in Croatia today. And I'll remember, here's counterpart Hajdas Doncic was then a member of the government, I was the president of the club of the strongest opposition party and there were cases in 2014 and 2015 where the Commission for Fiscal Policy, which had no such independence as it has today, expressed certain views on macroeconomic indicators and on the implementation of fiscal rules which... I must say honestly, and that is why I did apostrophe of the Vice-President of the Parliament who was then in the government who certainly did not like the representatives of the government at that time because they had deviated from what even the government had written as an explanation for the implementation of the budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At that time, it was very good for us in the opposition because we were referring to the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. And now that we have the opportunity to discuss this because this commission has been given a major degree of independence by amending the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and when we, as parliamentary representatives, have the opportunity to discuss the appointment of people in that body, what Article 22, 23, and 24 of the law prescribes what that body should do, see what the voice hears is not there. And that's what's not good. It's not good for us Parliamentarians, and it's not generally good. Because yesterday, when we discussed a technical change to the Credit Institutions Act, there were a variety of stories. When someone doesn't fit a report from the State Statistics Office regarding certain macroeconomic indicators, it's hard to admit that someone did something good again, it's denied in a certain way. And look now, there's a report on the implementation of the state budget in six months, a meeting of the Committee on Fiscal Policy and the implementation of fiscal rules and that its opinion which may be in line with what the government has written but can also be quite different. Well, if it's an independent body, then we should think of ourselves as Parliamentarians. However, also colleagues and colleagues, it is a very interesting provision of Article 24(1) that I quote it: “If the Commission in the occupied positions during the performance of the tasks referred to in Article 22 of this Act considers that there is a risk of significant deviations from the fulfilment of fiscal rules, it shall draw up a report by the Committee on Fiscal Policy on the existence of a risk for the fulfilment of the fiscal rules it provides to the Government.” Now look, Vlad, paragraph 2. The Government shall be bound by a proposal from the Ministry of Finance within 45 days of the receipt of the report referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article to demonstrate the existence of risks associated with compliance with the fiscal rules. If the Government considers that there is a risk of a significant deviation from compliance with the fiscal rules, it is mandatory to propose a plan of necessary measures. My colleagues and colleagues, this is an extremely important thing. This provision of Article 24(1) and (2) also states the importance of this commission. Tell me if each other's body has this kind of power. And even the finding of a state audit if it does not have such power that the government is obliged to manifest itself and that within 45 days it is obliged to propose measures. And so today we're discussing the appointment of these people, and this is how it goes for us. And that's why I signed up for an individual debate because I just think that we as Parliamentarians have to say it. We have to say that this is our body, the parliamentary body, no matter what it is not a formal parliamentary working body of, these amendments to the Law on fiscal responsibility the President of the Committee on Fiscal Policy will be a professional, in fact it should be a professional, unfortunately we have failed to choose it. So he will be an employee here and will also form a professional service that will provide him. And these colleagues, whom we today, which is colleague Peric on behalf of the Committee on Finance, are proposed by them, are not professionals, they work in some kind of eminent financial institution and they will be members of the commission. But I will repeat what I have already said, and the law says that they must not express the opinions of the body from which they come, but simply must express professional attitudes. And that's why my colleagues and colleagues support this proposal, maybe we've done a little awkward, and I have to say it here now, as well as a member of the Finance Committee, and as the minister who first passed the Fiscal Responsibility Act in 2010 that we may have misjudged this provision on the appointment of the chairman of the commission because the two tenders, unfortunately, show us that perhaps we had to go there with a request to some institutions to propose some kind of candidate. Because I repeat, if you get people from the Faculty of Economics, from the Economic Institute and from other such institutions, then the head man of the commission must be at least what would be said to be more professionally subdued and qualityd so that all these opinions, thinking and thinking together with professional services can be sublimated and sent to the Croatian Assembly, representatives, but if more significant deviations are put in place as indicated in Article. 24th century 1st and 2nd of the implementation of fiscal rules, we have asked the Government to propose certain measures, so I say they may have made one clumsyness of acting as some sort of great independence, but we have also forgotten that the Republic of Croatia is a small country and that there are few professional institutions and that people are dealing with this job exclusively in the CNB, at the Ministry of Finance in the macro-economic analysis sector, at the Economic Institute or perhaps somewhere else at the Institute of Public Finance and perhaps in some such institution and possibly from there can only come that representative. So, and I'll end up with this, this is, in my opinion, an extremely important body for HS, for MPs in HS, and one professional correction of what the government writes because they need to look at it the way it is, the government sometimes wants to embellish things, but they're the ones that I've already told the MPs who don't have a narrow area, give certain guidelines on what the budget is, what the budget is, and in which direction the entire public finances are going in the Republic of Croatia. I personally support the appointment of these representatives, we sincerely hope that we will find a quality person for a representative of the Commission for Fiscal Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146792	Thank you, Mr. Shuker, for his exposure, we have two replicas, and although the Rules of Procedure does not allow me to do so, I will actually agree with Mr. Shucker because he is right in his debate. Here you go, Mr. Bacic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146793	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I am pleased that you have noted in your debate that you have even come to the debate, that you have mentioned how important and important the Fiscal Responsibility Act is, but how important this commission is and why there is no debate at all, here I am glad that you have encouraged them, and here is my professor. The Greeks are gonna answer and they're gonna open up a little debate, because I think when we look at these members of the committee and what you've mentioned well, and that's art. The 22nd Law and their task themselves, which they will consider, which will give their recommendations, their opinions, and when we see these names and here's the pity that we may not be a little bit of what they say discuss individually about each of these representatives and how much it will contribute to this body and how important it is and how interesting it will be to read after their opinions and recommendations during these 5 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146794	Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146795	My colleague Bačić, on the Committee on Finance, I am very much considering each individual candidate proposed by the Committee. We had, for example, from the representatives of the institutions, here is a colleague of the Greeks who was on that committee, with several colleges, and we did not want to look first at the territory, which is very important, but also to see how much the department is to say strong at which university to appoint these people. However, this is definitely the body which is the basis for the parliamentary deputies and is the only quality and correct for the debate on the state budget. After the opinion of the Committee on Fiscal Policy on the implementation of fiscal rules and on macro-economic indicators, I don't think anyone else in this assembly has the right to express any views, I think they have the right to make their views known, but they cannot come out with figures that are not subject to any more facts except with a strong desire for politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146796	Thank you. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146797	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Shuker, it's a good thing that you pointed out the importance of this commission and how little interested in discussing it because it's always said it's good when it's good, and when it comes to certain disorders, then there are always some individual culprits who are looking for it. This is the body, once again highlighted, which has six members who are representatives of institutions and the seventh is, it is the representative of the commission, which is now for the first time with the new law should be chosen in a contest that must be, what you said, an independent expert who will sublime all of what these members as prominent experts see and recognise that there are possibly some anomalies and that will then be [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146798	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146799	Yes, you've noticed well, it's good when it's good, and when it's not good then it's, so the fiscal responsibility law was passed in the year when the economic crisis and the financial crisis in the Republic of Croatia was raised, with one basic goal of increasing the responsibility of the users of the state budget. In the first provision of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, it was that the budgetary head of the budgetary user who exceeded the position and did not ask for the consent of the Government and the Prime Minister and did not ask for budget rebalancing, he is obliged to offer his mandate at his disposal. This is precisely because it strengthens the responsibility of those who use the budget. As the economic crisis went by, as the Republic of Croatia improved in macro-economic indicators, so the Fiscal Responsibility Act simply sought some other things, and finally there was the establishment of this independent body, I repeat, whose article, whose reading should be a valid background Assembly representatives in... [[Intruder: Thank you...]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146800	...college Shucker. Next individual debate by Greek counterpart Branko, please welcome fellow Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146801	Thank you, Mr. Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, so this topic is definitely very important, perhaps not at this point 7 days before the annual vacations, but in the autumn it will be very important, at the moment when we talk about the new budget and projection of course of the budget for a little longer period, the three-year period, then it will again come into focus to the focus of the debate on what the expenditures are, whether they are too small, whether they are too high, what the dynamics of their growth, what with incomes, how much tax burden, whether it is too much, whether it is necessary to reduce this tax burden, what new income and expenditure ratios will be, how this will work on public debt, these are the key issues in fact which this commission and these, by my assessment, competent people who are proposing here in the Commission itself, so there absolutely agree with their colleague Schucker, we have agreed on the board, and these are already known names that we can answer to this name and we already. What is also expected in the next period is the appointment of the chairman of the commission and we really do not have, as we see the final solution as there is, I would say, this problem that my colleague Schuker was saying is difficult to find, in fact, a professional man who would, for a little less than or less than a parliamentary representative, work a job to be president of a commission in which very, very qualified people are, that means that this president must also be a very, very qualified man. And it's really gonna be hard to do all the way, it's gonna be hard to find a man like that. But that's, I say, here's fellow Shucker already said, I absolutely agree with him, I hope we find a certain solution, so that professional engagement is in some way a limit in this definition of commission president as the first among equals. What I would also like to say in the context of the very story of fiscal responsibility, so, as I said, it deals with 3 key fiscal rules or 3 key things that are the subject of reviewing the Commission's fiscal responsibility. That's what they're called. The structural balance, the fiscal balance, are, of course, expenditures above all and their control in terms of increasing expenditure that should not cross the GDP growth line in the year in which these expenditures are projected. It's simply one logic that ensures certain stability, fiscal stability and, of course, there's a question of public debt dynamics. This third issue is particularly interesting to us in the context of this story that we have been having in recent weeks and months, which is the story of meeting the criteria for the introduction of the euro into Croatia, the euro, so to join the Eurozone. As you know, we, i.e. the CNB and the government have sent so-called. The letter of intent to enter, first of all, the RM2 mechanism, and then both in the Eurozone and they have committed themselves to much to do in the meantime, so, first of all, those 19 measures of structural reforms that are required to keep this situation still fragile in the economy, so where we are in fact sensitive to many things and to many changes in the internal and our environment, that these things, I would say are stabilised during this transitional period and that this resilience of the economy to possible shocks is absolutely reduced. In this context, of course, the issue of managing public finances depends heavily on it. The issue of tax burden, on the other hand, what is the resulting variable, which is the dynamics of public debt. I would like to say this one thesis that I have already made publicly and I think that the Government should take care of it, which is that, in all estimates at this time, the tax burden in Croatia is still extremely high. So, despite the 3 rounds of tax discharge, Milanovic's governments, which the HDZ governments, this burden is still high, and the best indicator of this is that the tax revenues in these 3 years have last grown nearly 11 billion kuna in absolute amount. So, regardless of tax redundancies in the total tax burden is still high and the total tax revenues as a result are very, very high. There is a place to think about when it comes to dispensing citizens and dispensing entrepreneurship from that great tax burden, in order to be able to breathe easier. In order for citizens to receive higher salaries, higher incomes and so on, it is easier to raise salaries, especially in conditions where people leave Croatia for, among other things, relatively low wages, therefore, a framework needs to be found and a way to go into a new wave of tax redundancies. What we have been stressing these days, more than ever, is the situation in tourism. So we have a certain change in trends in tourism, we no longer have that growth or we expect this year the growth that we have had in the last few years. I'm not going to say now for which reasons, much has helped, and what's happening in our environment, especially in the Mediterranean. So at this point, this important economic sector is facing new challenges, so there should also be some way of considering a new tax discharge and allowing the tourism sector to pay more to the people who work there, so to raise wages, but also to invest. One issue these days is very important that the part of the tourism sector in which it is invested is actually good indicators even this year. And where you don't invest and where you're relatively out of date capacity, where there's no new services, new offers, there's a slightly worse result. And that should be taken into account, should also be taken into account that VAT on tourist accommodation as well as VAT on catering, here, today, people here in front of the Parliament, therefore, the people from the guest rooms once again warned, and we in the SDP are practically warning this for months, so just because of the fact that in the Republic of Croatia, one of the highest rates in Europe and the highest in the Mediterranean, it is now time to seriously consider that in the new wave of tax discharge, the sector is exactly tax-delivered in order to help it to further stabilise and avoid these trends that are now manifested in calming upcoming trends, and I say here in parts of the season even certain holes, the Serbian hole is mentioned, so we must make sure that we make business easier and encourage them to invest on the other side. All of this will, of course, have consequences for the budget, all of which will have consequences for the dynamics of further reduction of public debt. I was in a dialogue the other day and in a debate with the Minister of Finance said so, so for now, the government is quite focused on rapidly reducing public debt in order to achieve this reasonable period of 2-3g. put in place that the fiscal criteria for entry into the Eurozone have been met. I would say that there should be a healthy balance, that we have to go into tax relief, so something will reduce the state's revenues, and I would say slow down the dynamics of budget surpluses or public debt cuts, but on the other hand, I hope that in the economy there will be some positive effects that in a year, two, three will be seen in increased tax revenues again, not because the rates are large but because the economy has strengthened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146802	Thank you, Professor. It's a Greek. We have four replicas on your exhibit, first mate Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146803	Thank you very much. When you touched the high tax burden, you should have gone two more steps in the debate, saying that this is a major structural problem and the income and expenditure side of the budget. On the one hand, the average salary is taxed only about 7-8% points, and 92, '3% is the burden of contributions, while these contributions on the spending side when you look at them in terms of income create an annual minus in the budget of 20 billion kuna. The second thing, remember when they tried and contributed to the touching, was corrected by the elimination of the differentiated rate in tourism and then the riot with that differentiated rate began, it was introduced in 2005. as a model for incentives and investment in tourism and that's what it was. Then someone tried to solve the health contribution problem, reduced it by 2% in the name of abolishing the differentiated rate, and today we have what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146804	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Here's a fellow Greek, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146805	Well, in most of what you said, so I agree, that's one chronology of events, there were rises and declines, like our 2013 VAT reduction in hospitality. From 25% to 13% where the study that the HGK made very clearly and showed that in the next 2nd year alone, in 2014 and '15th investments increased from a billion and a half to 3 and a half billion kuna in the catering sector, revenues increased from 4 to 8.1 billion kuna, so the revenues in the sector doubled, the number of employees increased from 30,000 to 50, and that sector in general, which had dealt with a minus, turned that into the next 2nd year. in plus in about 250 million kuna consolidated Therefore, the effects have been achieved. [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146806	Thank you, fellow Greek, thank you. Comrade Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146807	A fellow Greek that it is very important to monitor everything that is happening, but we must not forget that the public debt was currently at the end of 2018 74.5% of GDP, which is compared to the previous 3rd year. Even a reduction of 9% points, therefore an extremely high rapid trend in debt relative to GDP, which should be clearly recognised that this government policy and all other macro-economic indicators and the environment of the drop in interest rates, etc., actually resulted in very good positive results and surplus in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146808	Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146809	Thank you very much. So, I couldn't agree more. So, otherwise, in the context of the very modest results of this government, the fiscal sphere is probably something where a certain shift has been made and that's exactly what I was talking about, I even think that the dynamics of reducing public debt are too fast in terms of this fiscal goal being too prominent, and that on the other hand it is noticeable that tax burden is too high. Therefore, perhaps at the expense of a slower reduction in public debt should go to a new tax discharge, and I argue that in the next few years because of this tax discharge very quickly you would see a positive effect in collecting the total tax mass and at a lower rate, it is my thesis, so we generally agree about this fiscal... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146810	Thank you, Comrade Prelec.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146811	Thank you, dear vice president. Dear Greek, clearly we all agree on the need to relieve our citizens of taxes, but you know that lately it's actually mostly at the expense of units of local self-government and cities and municipalities. On the other hand, cities and municipalities do not have enough money to solve their infrastructure, to improve the quality of life of our citizens, kindergartens and schools, all depends on the local community. So here's the simplest model we have to do the same thing, and we have to go into that part of Zagreb to solve the tax discharge of citizens, and yet local self-government units have enough fiscal capacity to solve the problem of our citizens. Just to point out that in the Republic of Croatia only 17% of the money is spent in local self-government and much depends on the quality of life depends on the cities and municipalities in the end and the departure of our young people because they do not have enough good, quality... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146812	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146813	So I would like to stress in this sense a very clear view of us in the SDP that we have proposed to go into a new discharge in terms of increasing wages, in a way that reduces, or pardon, the tax deduction from 3800 to 5000 kuna. It's really going to the burden of local self-government, but at the same time we suggested to the prime minister, don't touch the VAT general rate. Don't cut it from 25% to 24% because it really won't bring anything to anyone, it's going to spread so much in the system that no one will actually recognise the benefits of it, but these 2 billion kunas compensate the units of local self-government, this smaller income that will result after the increase in wages with a new tax deduction. So a very clear and consistent story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146814	Thanks, buddy. Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146815	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Greek, you said well that the economy of the Republic of Croatia expects further tax relief because here and in next year's estimates they say there will be a slowdown in economic growth and a slowdown in GDP growth rates to some 2.5% and without a new tax discharge there will be no economic growth. And the key is economic growth and wage growth in the Republic of Croatia, which is what all citizens expect especially when it comes to purchasing power. Tax reform where VAT is reduced to food products, I'm here and... The law, said no effects will be achieved, and now the data suggests that a large number of our citizens are leaving to buy food products in neighbouring Bosnia, Serbia, there is a huge flow of money from the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And VAT rates should then be corrected in a way that is attractive to our citizens in Croatia and not that this money is being poured into BiH and Serbia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146816	Thank you. A fellow Greek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146817	Well, I couldn't agree more, and that's what I was saying. So instead of reducing the general VAT rate by 1%, that's huge money, to be clear, 2 billion kunas, but it's going to be so scattered that people won't feel it. It is precisely necessary to go to these targeted measures that will help certain sectors that are very much relevant in Croatia today. The tourism sector is definitely one of those because it practically results in 1/5 of all economic effects in the country. And if we don't want to say it like that, and if we don't support them, help them, I'm afraid we won't do a good thing. And now that Mr. Maric announces a new round of tax reform, we have a need here to say what we stand for. So tourism, VAT discharge, salary and investment money and a general salary increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146818	Thank you, fellow Greek. That's why I'm closing the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146819	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the fiscal policy committee. The Proposer is the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the fiscal policy committee, please vote. I find that most of the vote is 100 for, 4 abstentions, 9 against the decision made as proposed by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146820	We continue with the following point of daily work: - Proposal for a decision to appoint a president and members of the National Council with an awareness, higher education and technological development Proposer: Committee on Education, Science and Culture is a Proposer of the Education Committee on the basis of Article 11. Law on scientific activity and higher education. I ask the chairman of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, Ms. Vesna Bedekovic, to further explain the proposal for a decision. Here's my colleague, Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146821	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. So before us is the proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The proposal was therefore adopted on the basis of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and in connection with the provision of Articles 11, 1 and 2. Law on scientific activity and higher education. So, according to this, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament tabled a proposal to the Parliament to appoint the president and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, which is therefore appointed as President of the National Council. Mirjana Polić Bobic. For members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development from the order of scientific advisors in the permanent calling of Prof. Dr. Vlasta Ilishin, Prof. Dr. Mladen Šolić and Prof. Dr. Ljiljana Kaliterna Lipovcan. Then, for members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, from the order of the representatives of the regular teachers in the permanent title, Prof. Dr. Damir Magaš, academician Ivica Kostović, Prof. Dr. Damir Agičić and Prof. Dr. Mirjana Polić Bobic. As a member of the National Council of the Economic Representatives, Prof. Dr. Zdravko Tolušić, a member of the National Council of Entrepreneurship Representatives, is named Dr. Science Gojko Ostojić and as a member of the National Council as a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education, is named Dr. Petar Pervan. The composition of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is set out in Article 9(1). The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education under which the National Council has presidents and 16 members, of which 4 scientific advisors are employed in permanent call at scientific institutes, 7 regular teachers in permanent calling, 2 high school professors and 2 persons in the field of economy and 2 persons in the field of entrepreneurship. And the work of the National Council is also attended by a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education without the right to decide. In the light of the provisions of Article 11(1) and (2), The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education of Presidents and Members of the National Council appoints the Croatian Assembly on a proposal from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, in a way that each two years appoints 8 members of the National Council and the President every 4 years. The candidates for members of the National Council shall be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of proposals submitted by scientific institutes, rectoral assembly, university senates, the Council of Higher Educational Schools, then HAZU, HGK, Association of Employers, trade unions in science and scientists and members of the academic community, on the basis of a publicly published call for candidates. Given that the president, from the order of regular professors in the permanent calling and part of members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development, has expired, the Ministry of Science and Education announced on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia a public invitation to propose a candidate for members of the National Council. A total of 40 proposals arrived at the public call, for candidates and members, and 8 members of the National Council and presidents of whom 2 candidates did not meet the conditions of a public call. In the process itself, therefore, the election of candidates and presidents, for the president and members of the National Council, took part in a total of 14 candidates for the election of presidents, 13 candidates from the order of scientific advisors in the permanent calling, 19 candidates from the order of regular teachers in permanent calling, 1 candidate from the order of persons in the area of the economy, and 2 candidates from the category of entrepreneurship. In the debate on the election of candidates for a member of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development from regular teachers in permanent calling, the board members, applying previous practice in the election of presidents and members, unanimously with 7 votes in order to get the elected president, Prof. Dr. Mirjana Polić Bobic also proposes for a member of the National Council from the ranks of regular teachers in a permanent term. Similarly, the debate found that, as a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education, the proposed candidate Dr. Peter Pervan. In accordance with the above mentioned Committee on Education and Science and Culture, HS held at its 52nd session on 14 June 2019. in accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the following paragraph is added: 11. The Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education established unanimously, hence the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development, and in that sense the Committee on Education and Science and Culture as a Proposer invites all MPs and deputies to accept the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146822	Thank you. Also, I am opening the debate, so you can stay right away because you are the first one on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, so again, colleague Vesna Bedeković, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146823	Thank you very much. Here, I'll just maybe say a few words about when and how the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development was established. Thus, it is in the form in which we still have it established today on the basis of amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education of 2014. and this in a way that has taken over the commitments of the previous National Council for Science, the National Council for Higher Education, the Council for National and Innovation System and Technology Council, so these 4 councils from which we are discussing the National Council have been subliminated, in accordance with the amendments to the Law on Science and Higher Education of 2014. This national council has been given greater responsibility for directing and monitoring higher education, scientific activities and innovation systems in the Republic of Croatia, with a reduction in the scope of tasks which are administrative in nature, while at the same time increasing its role in the adoption and direction of public policies in high education in science and technology and in this sense the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development is in line with the law, in fact the most professional body concerned with the development and quality of overall scientific activities from science and higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia, and its part-time work and some basic tasks are primarily to discuss issues of importance for scientific activity, and to propose and encourage the adoption of measures for its improvement, and to encourage the adoption of measures to improve higher education, give consent to the conditions of the Chamber of Auditors, Councils, Higher Education and Higher Educational Education, Training, Training and Training. The same follows the development and determines the scientific and artistic fields and fields, appoints the regional scientific and artistic councils, parent committees for each field, then sets out the conditions for obtaining scientific titles, determines the minimum working conditions for scientific, scientific and artistic curricula on which the report is submitted in accordance with the law. It then lays down, among other things, the conditions to be met by scientific organisations and high schools in the field of art in order to obtain the authority to conduct the selection process in scientific titles or the artistic component of artistic teaching according to this, in accordance with the Law on Science and Higher Education. Equally, what is important to mention this council brings the criteria of excellence for selecting scientists and teachers to extend the Work Treaty after 65. Life also prescribes minimum working conditions for re-election in scientific teaching, artistic teaching, teaching and professional jobs. It is also important to stress that it proposes to declare scientific centres of excellence and gives an opinion on the establishment of scientific technology parks and co-laborative technology centres, proposes criteria and relations of budget allocations for scientific activities, higher education and technological development and, of course, what is important suggests measures and takes activities for the affirmation and promotion of scientific and teaching subjugation, proposes and encourages measures related to the polyntry system of scientific activities and higher education in the Republic of Croatia and proposes HS also, for example, strategic documents of a network of public higher education and public scientific institutes and, of course, examines, giving its opinion on all important issues related to the development of science and higher education systems in the Republic. As I have already said, the composition of the National Council has been prescribed by the provisions of the Article. Paragraph 9 of this Regulation shall be read in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on scientific activity and higher education. It only has a president and 16 members of which 4 scientific advisors are employed in permanent call at scientific institutes, 7 regular teachers in permanent calling, 2 high school professors, 2 persons in the field of economy and 2 in entrepreneurship, and a representative of representative trade unions in science and higher education is involved in the work of the Council and without the right to decide. The term of office of the President and members of the National Council shall therefore take four years and Article 11(1) of the Law shall be prescribed for members of the National Council and their presidents to be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, taking into account the representation of representatives from the field of science and art as well as the representation of scientists from the economy. In accordance with Article 11(2) of the Law, it is important to stress that every 2 years on a proposal from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Croatian Parliament shall appoint 8 members of the National Council, while the President of that body is appointed every 4 years. And since part of the members and president ended the mandate, 8 members whose mandate lasted 2 years and the president whose term lasted 4 years, the Ministry of Science and Education on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced a public invitation to propose candidates for members of this National Council. So I have already pointed out in the opening statement that there have been 40 proposals, 2 candidates have failed to meet the conditions and in the process of the elections itself, a total of 14 candidates for the election for the president, 13 candidates from the order of scientific advisors in the permanent title, 19 candidates from the order of regular teachers in the permanent calling and 1 candidate from the economy and 2 from the field of entrepreneurship and this 1 candidate therefore proposed by the union. And therefore, given that the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development is in accordance with the law, the most expert body that cares about the development and quality of overall scientific activities and systems of science, higher education and technological development in the Republic of Croatia and of course plays a significant role in the adoption and direction of public policies in higher education, in science, in technology. And, of course, since all the proposed candidates here have both professional and scientific and academic qualities necessary for the performance of all the tasks of the National Council of Representatives of the HDZ, they will support the proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development in the text as proposed by the Proposer or Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146824	Thank you, colleagues. Next on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club is an esteemed colleague of the Voice of Sabina. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I will take this opportunity and, in a way, I will be congratulating Mrs. Mirjani Polić Bobic, Mrs. The authorities of Ilishin, Mr. Mladen Šolić, Mrs. Ljiljani Kaliterni Lipovcan, Mr. Damir Magaš, Mr. Ivica Kostović, Mr. Damir Agić, Mr. Zdravko Tolusic, Mr. Gojko Ostojić and Mr. Petar Pervan, which is most likely to be elected on Friday to the highest professional body concerned with the development and quality of overall scientific activities from the system of science, higher education and technological development. We congratulate them and expect them as the Croatian Parliament to do their duty honorably. The one I cannot congratulate is the HDZ and the ruling coalition because of the sloppy, pretentious way in which the election of members of the National Council in science, higher education and technological development took place. And for two key reasons. The first reason is that it took you a year and a half from the publication of a public call for members to arrive before this Croatian Parliament. For a year and a half, this important, key body for the development of Croatian science was in some kind of a stalemate position and did not work in full composition just because of the sloppyness of the ruling majority, meaning HDZ with its coalition partners. On 14 June 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia sent a list of candidates for presidents and members of the National Council to the Croatian Assembly of the Committee on Education, Science, Culture and Science. But it is not Mrs. Vesna Bedekovic's fault that she did not call the board meeting and conduct the election, not in the background of the trench battles among coalition partners who could not agree for a year and agree on candidates who would propose or which their votes would go to in secret vote. I am not saying that these candidates are bad, very rarely happens that in a dark vote without negotiating above or below the table the ruling majority and minority we are in fact about 70% of these people who are proposing today in the Croatian Parliament we secretly voted as opposition for the same candidates as the position. So there were quality people here who were recognized from both sides. However, it is not good and it is wrong for the ruling majority to take so long to release white smoke and to agree on seemingly banal things but very important bodies. I'm going to remind you of the National Council for Education and Education, so this is the National Council for Science, Technology and Higher Education, a key body that needs to have a major impact on education reform, in everything that happens in the education system to this higher education does not exist. You haven't agreed yet, 2.5 years you've disabled the work of a key body, the National Council for Education, because they don't have a quorum, the same thing after 2 years you have to choose a part of the members, 2.5 years, we're still waiting, it hasn't happened the same because you're arguing with each other, you can't agree, you can't agree. So, every honor to these people, finally, I say we agreed without even knowing about a large number of these people, but the way you work is the way that it's sloppy, in which I repeat myself, but a million times for your work I have a description, so there's no home advice and let alone state. And the other thing, so for this part, Bedekovic is not guilty, however, of this second part, she has now presented to us quite comprehensively how the proceedings itself have been, she quoted from the Law on the power of the National Council so how many candidates have arrived, so as we have chosen from this report or from the reasoning, and not even from her address, you parliamentary representatives have received the impression that this has actually been so smooth since the secret vote was held, these candidates have been chosen, however it is not quite so. We have held a secret vote, but we have found ourselves in one situation that is absurd because to choose, you choose the meaning of the President of the National Council and we have elected 8 members or members of the National Council by special categories as prescribed by the law. But the absurd situation is that today, in fact, according to the rules under which we choose, we have the president of the National Council who has not received, has not been elected to the National Council because it has not received enough votes, or has been last ranked, as 4 in this category, but has received the same number of votes as the other candidate who is not listed here today. It means whether it is normal for me in this system of voting, a secret vote where suddenly elected president and members, hypothetically, the worst possible situation can happen to us, and it has happened to you for a president who must be from the ranks of regular teachers in a permanent calling, to be a person, to get a sufficient number of votes in order to be president but not get enough votes to be a member, and that is one crazy path of position and the position of choice should be changed. Or you should first in the first round select members and members of the National Council and then from their ranks as it must be, you can't be president of a National Council someone who isn't elected as a member or member should be elected second, but that's where we question whether we are putting other candidates who have run for National Council presidents and who have neither the possibility of being elected because they haven't passed this first step or we have to find another model but we can't have this happening anymore to us as president of the National Council as a de facto elected person who didn't get most of it to join the very composition of the National Council. I appeal to you gentlemen from the ruling majority not to throw, I had to say, the parliamentary representatives have to know, it doesn't really change anything, it's our procedural thing, but that's what I said, it's not about the quality of these people, it's about dirt, it's about bad preparations, it's about inter-coalizational, in-coalization exhausts, and then the victims are eventually these people, because today, instead of stopping at the card and at the first part, I went nicely to my place, and all together, I'm likely to support on Friday all future members and members of the national council headed by the newly elected president, I have to spend some time and to point to absurd procedures that actually unnecesssssssssscely taking time and throw away at something that's quite right and the people who are correct, who are proven in my fields and I'm convinced that I'll do this job and not have to be responsible and to be able to be able to be able to be able to vote in five or to speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146826	Thank you too, colleagues. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and esteemed colleague Curaj Stjepan. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146827	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I am going to say very briefly, I think that as far as the opening work is concerned and on behalf of the promoter and on behalf of the HDZ Club, and the colleague said everything, so here today we are choosing the members of the most professional body concerned with the development and quality of the entire scientific activity and in general the system of science, higher education and technological development. So about 22 important items they're dealing with. I am glad that, of course, I can accept part of the criticism as to the longevity of this procedure, but if it has led to more than 70% of the candidates agree, then probably so, it is probably a reflection of the great majority here in the Parliament, then let's do some satisfaction that this job and do well as to make decisions, agreements, conversations, or this particular choice of these people, and we can all agree there together. As far as importance is concerned, of course the body is extremely important, of course it will contribute to the excellent work that has been done in the last 2 years and improves it, improves and I think that raises another step more and one higher speed, because we must note that in the last 2 years nearly 3 billion kuna has been withdrawn or secured from the European funds precisely for the system of science and education through all those stories of reform of course and reforms and vocational education, of course, and the overall reform and all efforts and work of the Ministry of Science as a parent ministry. What the election may have been apostropheeded here as one part of which has arisen, that is because according to the existing regulation and the law, we have a certain number of members that we choose and not the president of this body are not elected from the ranks of members, so it is not an assumption that it has to be a member to be president because it is specifically stated in the contest of documentation that people have specifically applied for the president and he has been particularly elected, so there was no first choice of members, and then there was a special competition between them for the president and people have been especially applied and we have had a ballot vote for the president until nothing was known. And that's actually one problem of procedure where we've all been doing everything all of a sudden, and what happened is that let's just say that it's kind of a folk-tele-directed how many candidates the institutions have to be in front of, now that I don't list all these institutions, but let's say from the lines of regular teachers in the permanent calling of scientific advisors in the permanent calling of employees in scientific institutes there must be 3 and when it happens that one of the presidents is elected between one of these and the others, so we're talking here and the council of the economy, etc., then that number is consummated, and then we would, because this procedure was suddenly that we have one member more than the law suggests, it's impossible than actually just going to be the number that needs to be empty. If the president has been elected by the majority of all votes for the president of the teachers in permanent calling, regular professors, then we can't choose four more teachers there, whether she's there or not. And right in that part, there was also a choice in that part where it was concluded that she had just filled out that quota of the fourth... and that is all the confusion that was in itself, in the choice itself, although I say it should be better solved, but the legislator's intensities here are fulfilled and we have exactly what the legislator predicted exactly the number of representatives of a particular institution filled in and voted by the majority of the votes of the committee standing here in the proposal and the HNS Club will support and, of course, wish a lot of happiness in further work, and here if I need to extend the speech for my colleague to apply, I think I want to wish once again to all the elected and elected congratulations and much happiness in further work, of course and cooperation with the ministry and all that we are about to do. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146828	Thank you. Individual colleague Sabina Glasovac, before closing on behalf of fellow member Bedeković, please welcome fellow Glasovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I didn't mean to report it, but I simply have to react to these logical mistakes made by Mr. Curo when we talk about the concept of the election of members of the National Council in science and high education and technological development, so colleague Curaj said that the president or president of the National Council does not have to be elected or must not be a member of the National Council for Science and Higher Education and Technological Development means and then after that, he said that we were to choose four members by this structure, or four members from the ranks of the representatives of the regular professors in the permanent calling, and that is correct. [[/Intruder: Replica or?]] However, this analogy of not having to be chosen as a member or a member of the National Council, means we or should vote in two circles, in two circles, which we have not done, and we have brought ourselves into a situation where we choose a president who is not on the other hand elected as regular teachers in a permanent calling, but it is the 4th, if we choose four regular teachers in a permanent calling, then her name here should not be or should have to go to the second round and decide who will be the 4th member or member between her and the gentleman who got her, but we have already spent the choice, it would not be for other candidates that we chose a president who received a sufficient number of votes, we chose members or members, we had here some amount of votes, and now that we went to that second round, it would not be a procedure that we would not be able to get us out of this situation, which I just wanted to say. You can't say she doesn't necessarily have to be elected from the ranks of members or members, then why you put her on a ballot, okay, why you put her on a ballot to choose between members and members if we conduct a parallel choice. I mean, you know what I'm talking about, and I know what you're talking about, and we know that we've been going round and it's not easy to find a way out of this situation, and I'm surprised at why you haven't told you at all, we have a problem with the way we choose and we have to change it, but you do realize that this is a good approach, this is not a good approach, it can lead us into stupid situations like it brings us into stupid situations that someone is elected president or president, and it hasn't received enough votes to be a member, or maybe it's someone else's place. Could this person, by your logic, be on the presidential list if she wasn't elected to be a member of the National Council? No, I don't. And as we could have known if she was enjoying the majority trust to be elected as a member, we couldn't know, and we found ourselves in this crazy situation. What I just wanted to appeal on behalf of the club here on all of us, and first of all, to you because you are part of the ruling majority that we are not good at the job that has now proved to be the most absurd situation that we have holes in the election system and that in the future we should avoid them, not coming out of them, discussing them here, exhausting the other representatives of something that shouldn't be discussed at the plenary session at all, but the question of legitimacy is extremely important and it's not good to end up with Mrs. And Mrs. Polic Bobic raises the question whether she could be elected president at all if she did not get most of it here, if she did not get most of it here, why was she even on the election list for the president if the president is elected from the ranks of members elected. It was my intensity to warn you because if we choose a separate president and members, then don't put it to choose four because de facto we've chosen three members here and not four members from the ranks of regular professors because this one, she's one president or president, and there's something to change, you know, and you know that, too. Bedekovic, I know and there is no need to outwit this, and that is why you have also made such a report, no mention of it, but you have said that through the debate a little bit, I have not yet seen such a structure, the committee is authorized to propose on the basis of a public vote and yet have not seen the structure in the debate of regular teachers in the regular calling, by applying the previous practice during the elections, have been unanimously careful, with 7 votes for, there is no opposition because we left the session, that the elected president is also proposed for a member of the National Council from the ranks of regular teachers in the permanent calling and the debate found that as a representative... Well, through the debate means a motion for a decision, we know why such a structure is and I wouldn't go on talking about it now, the problem is and we need to see how in the future solve it, there's probably some way, maybe with some other bodies that have similar or similar analogy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146830	Thank you, we have one replica. Here you go, colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146831	Thank you. So my particular point of reference is that we can't have a situation where we choose a number of people and then we get one more choice through the elections. So that's what happened here, that the law says that you have to have 4 representatives and regular teachers in permanent calling, and even though the president is one of those representatives, then three more should choose not five because then we are increasing the total number of elected and the president is elected in separate competitions and that same person has appeared in two different competitions, one is for a member, one is for the president, and then we are really going to have this situation which is not likely to be legal, it will have to be regulated, but what the point of the story was that we now have as the legislator predicted, the exact number in front of each authorised proposing or representative in this new council and which is a large majority of... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146832	Thank you, reply to the line, here are your esteemed colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146833	Right, we can't have a larger number chosen than one chosen, so we're choosing 9 and one to 9 becomes president, so we're choosing 8 plus 1. In order to avoid this exactly the whole time we discussed it, if we choose 8 plus 1 and 9, then that logic must be the president, it must be of the chosen ones, it must be of the chosen ones. If we have to choose 3 from the ranks of scientific advisors, so it's prescribed, if we have to choose 4 from the ranks of regular professors, if we have to choose one from the economy and if we have to choose one from entrepreneurship, that's 9. And 8 plus 1, so one of those 9 has to be the president of those lines.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146834	Thank you. And now on behalf of the promoter, final, final, colleague Vesna Bedeković. Here you go, colleague Bedekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, I would like to take advantage of this opportunity and, of course, congratulate once again on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture as well as on my personal behalf to all proposed candidates for the President and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development, and indeed it is very high-quality people who have all the skills from scientific to academic to academic in doing these important jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146836	Dear colleagues, please, on behalf of the promoter, allow me so you can, no offenses, a little later. ... No, come on, please, you can do it later, just let your colleague finish. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146837	Let me just finish. So, once again, thank you very much, honestly, here's the card. I will only try very briefly except to thank all the board members for a constructive discussion both from the position and from the opposition, and precisely in this constructive debate which was less constructive at some point but has proved to be really about the same problem and that we really have a problem with the choice of this very, very important body. I must point out that in the procedure itself, the exact same practice was used, in the same way a ballot was formed for a secret vote, as was the practice in the last election, which was in 2014 when the National Council was established where Prof. Dr. Ivo Smrić, elected president of the National Council, was in one and a member of the ranks of regular teachers in a permanent title and I will draw attention only to making it easier for us in the future by my court, therefore the cause of such and similar doubts, so the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education and its changes in 2014 is precisely based on these changes among other things and established such a national council as we have today. Article 9 of the Law states precisely who are members of the National Council and from which category. 4 scientific advisors in permanent calling, 7 regular professors, 2 high school professors, 2 persons in the economy, 2 from entrepreneurship and plus a union representative and you now when you add it up, you get a figure of 17 people plus 18 from the union, and nowhere in that article is the saying who the president is, whether the president is from the ranks and whether he should be from the ranks of membership, the logic would be that but unfortunately the article is formulated so that he leaves room for interpretations different. I stress, during this election, we used practice four years ago, so the exact same practice, the exact same procedure, the exact same procedure. And I don't see why one procedure, one procedure that's exactly the same, but in all the same four years ago, can be welcomed and can be said, yes, this is fine, and now that we're out of position, it's not a good procedure. Therefore, I believe that the next amendment and obtaining or if the adoption of a new Act on Scientific Activity and Higher Education is, this provision relating to the National Council should be further specified, so that it should be formulated in a way that it does not leave room for interpretations. Why, in 2014 when amendments were made, Article 9 was formulated like this, I don't know, maybe on purpose, to leave space with interpretations and to adapt to whom it fits and perhaps happened by accident. So let's not abuse this situation, so let's say it doesn't work out for us once, secondly it suits us, so here's how it's been seen, and then on behalf of the proposings of this whole situation, and among other things, that it's all right and that we define it right, it wouldn't have happened, and look, the board members who are here in opposition, the board's session at some point left, why, only they know it, so that they had answers to some questions that I asked them right away, maybe they would have stayed until the end, so we would solve the situation properly. In any case, what is most important is that we have a final half of the national council that was missing for their normal work, we have the president of the National Council, I wish them a lot of success and a lot of happiness in the work, and we Assembly representatives to consider the possibility of a more detailed, precise definition of this article in the law itself through its amendment, through co-operation and I also think that it is necessary to specify the very procedure of the election at the level of the defence itself, which, in accordance with the law, the choice is done in the way that the law provides. There you go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146838	Thank you, too. That concludes the debate and we'll vote when the conditions are met. Resume session at 3 o'clock, i.e. at 15 hours with the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, first reading, P.Z. No. 528 a.k.a. is represented by Arsen Bauk, so-called Bauk's Law. MEETING IN 14.13 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146839	Proposal for a decision to appoint the President and members of the National Council for Science, Higher Education and Technological Development. The proposal is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed, so I am voting on the proposal for that decision, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 101 for, 6 abstentions and 5 against decisions made as proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146840	[[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.01 HOURS]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on this point, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Assistance, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. The government has delivered its opinion, please the motionary's representative to give us an additional explanation of the bill, please welcome fellow Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146841	Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I suggest that Article 47 be completed. The law on transport in line and occasional coastal transport in such a way as to add three more groups of citizens to those groups of citizens entitled to preferential transport with a public transport discount and groups of citizens exercising the right to free transport on public transport. During the application of the law, it was observed that the legal solution was not adapted to persons with disabilities residing on the island who, for their special needs, are forced to travel to the mainland and children with developmental difficulties who, along with one or two escorts, are needed and accompanied by a vehicle. In this sense the action was initiated by the City Society of the Red Cross Brač, the Association of the Bračka Pupolici, is supported by all the leaders of the local self-government units from the island of Brac, of which they are somehow evenly divided, three from HDZ, 3 SDP, 2 independent and this legislative proposal is the realization of their initiative which has also received wider support. The proposal before you other than business processing is literally rewritten as their proposal and their initiative. It is therefore proposed that the law only has two articles, of which the second course is the entry into force, so it is proposed that children with developmental difficulties on the island who, because of physical, sensory, communication, speech-language or intellectual difficulties, need additional support for learning and development in health or educational institutions on land to achieve the best possible development outcome and social inclusion, their escorts and vehicles in their entouragement. Then persons with a severe disability with a residence on the island, their escorts and vehicles accompanied by them, and donors of blood with a residence on the island who offered at least 36 times if men and 25 times were women. In the current Article 47 of the Law, a number of soups of citizens who exercise the right to privileged transport are listed. The right to preferential transportation with a discount has 7 groups and the right to free transport has 8 groups of citizens. I'll read that article for illustration. Therefore, on preferential transport with a discount on public transport, Croatian and foreign nationals who have their residence on the islands or on the Peljesac peninsula and citizens of the Member States of the European Economic Area and members of their families, regardless of their nationality, who have registered a temporary stay and who are at least 183 days in one year, are staying on the islands or Peljesac peninsula. Children 3 to 12 years of age. Vehicles of natural persons and foreign nationals and vehicles of the user leasing with residence on the island registered in the competent administrative body in the Republic of Croatia. Vehicles of legal persons or vehicles registered to crafts, OPG, free-occupancy activity and users of Leasing from the seat of vehicle users on the island and vehicles are registered in the competent administrative body in the Republic of Croatia. Healthcare professionals and employees of other public services, police, OS, firefighters, port captains whose permanent place of work on the island and their official vehicles used on the island. Healthcare professionals and their official vehicles when carrying out regular transport of patients from the island to the mainland and vice versa and other persons eligible under special regulations. Free transport rights are given to students and students with residence on the island who travel daily to school or higher education institutions outside the island. Students and students living on an island who are temporarily staying off the island during their schooling and come to the island on weekends. Children attending compulsory preschool programs outside the island of their residence as well as students and students who are studying on the island of their residence and children attending preschool programme on the island of their residence for activities outside the island. Children from 1 to 3 years old. Retired persons and persons over 65 years of age with residence on the island, healthcare professionals and their official vehicles when carrying out the sanitary transport of patients from the island to the mainland and vice versa, police officers and their official vehicles in carrying out their duties on islands and employees of other public servants and their official vehicles in cases of disaster and in cases of extraordinary events and search and rescue with the consent of the Agency. So I believe that certainly in this group, the special this second group is fully justified to add this as proposed, so with developmental difficulties with the island's residence, their escorts and vehicles, people with disabilities, their escorts and vehicles and blood donors. This last thing about blood donors to equalize them with donors of blood on land who have the right to public transportation, for example, seems to me that in the city of Zagreb public city transport, what is in the city of Zagreb public city transport, it is on the islands as a rule ferry from island to land. The law was passed in the procedure of 20 November last year and I was hoping that this issue would be resolved without debate on this concrete proposal of the Law. On 23 January, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has shown itself in a way that it has proposed to the Assembly not to accept this proposal because the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure is already working on finding adequate legal solutions that would satisfy the needs of persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties on the island, and that there is also an ongoing establishment of an expert working group to draft legislation in which the work between other members will include representatives of relevant associations of persons with disabilities. In addition, given that the above working group will approach the creation of complete amendments and the addition of the law in question, which will include, among other things, the subject of the rights of the special groups of citizens, the Government proposes that the proposal is not complete and that it proposes to the Parliament not to accept that proposal. The Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure in April of this year and the Committee on Health and Social Policy in late June 2019 also appeared to me. I cite chronology for that and the Legislative Committee, that was yesterday. So I'm citing chronology to try to explain the genealogy, which is why we're here today at the plenary session. So in January, I could fully accept the government's argument that a whole law would be drawn up. This could hold water even more in April when it was on the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure but over time the government's arguments in this regard are becoming weaker and the cry of parents of children with developmental difficulties is growing stronger. The first time I presented the bill was relatively undetected. When he refused the bill at Easter, he received a little more media attention, and when the Health Committee refused the bill, he received a lot of media attention. Many public figures supported the efforts of the Association of Bračka Pupoli to pass this law, so there were actor Marko Petric, actress Ana Begić-Tahiri, actor Slavko Sobin, singer Joško Čagalj-Jole, singer Neno Belan, singer Mirela Priselac-Romi, singer Toni Cetinski, actress Nadia Cvitanović, singer Luka Nižetić, Klapa Rišpet and Ivo Amulić and Pero Kozomara, leader Katarina Muskatelo, singer Mija Dimšić and singer Vojko Vrupina, respectively. I would therefore like to say that I believe that there will be enough time until summer to solve this problem, that I have no intention to privatise this law also shows that he is the author of this initiative and that I am trying to be able to be the subject to this theme. You know me, I don't talk, I talk a lot in the Parliament but I've talked a little bit about this subject until maybe a week or two ago. However, I will read you some provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament just to see, just to see what our Rules of Procedure is saying. So I'll go from item to item. Article 187: ‘The general debate on the proposal for a law shall be taken so as to enable the representatives to deliver their opinions on the need for the adoption of a law on basic matters to be regulated by law, on constitutional authority to refer to the offices of law and the scope and manner of legal regulation of those relations.’. This law and this topic are a school example when this is to be discussed. I believe that none of the MPs present here nor the one who will appear in the debate will dispute the need to pass this law, will not dispute the need to discuss the scope and manner of the legal arrangement of these relations. If it's going to stay on this group, if it needs to be expanded, whether it needs to be specified, whether it needs to be spread, narrowed down, it's not a question here. Well, then, logically, you wonder what the problem is. Let us continue: “The debate on details...”, paragraph 2: “...is about the text of the draft law and of certain provisions.” That's what we're gonna do today. Paragraph 3: "If the representatives of the assessment do not need to pass a bill, they will reject the conclusion which must be reasoned and delivered to the applicant." I'm sure in today's debate I won't hear the assessment that this law doesn't have to be passed. I am sure that everyone who reports in the debate will say that this law needs to be passed, will make some suggestions, suggestions, remarks, but I am sure that no one will say that this law is not necessary. And if that's how it's going to be, then the refusal of a conclusion would even be contrary to the Rules of Procedure. Paragraph 4: ‘The proposed law rejected at the sitting shall not be re-entered into the sitting agenda before the end of the period of 3 months after its refusal by the Assembly.’. It will be interesting to interpret whether if the Parliament refuses to put this proposal on the agenda within 3 months, but I will not overly discuss it, let the Government take care of it. "After the conclusion of the debate, which adopts the proposal for a law, opinions, views, observations and proposals in connection with the draft law are established and are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. The conclusion on the adoption of the proposal may provide that the legislator, instead of proposing amendments and supplementing the applicable law, is obliged to draw up a final draft law which will fully regulate a particular area. That's exactly what the government is saying, so exactly what it says in the Rules of Procedure as a reason for the adoption of the law, the government says it can or will draw up a final bill that will fully edit a particular area. The last sentence: ‘Before submitting the final proposal or the final draft of the law referred to in paragraph 6 may specify that the legislator is obliged to obtain the opinion of individual bodies or legal persons having public authority.’ So this might possibly be seen about the D.A. with the disability or the Coastal Line Transport Agency. And Article 188, which we will decide on, therefore: “On the basis of the proposal for a conclusion of the assembly on the adoption of the draft law, the Proposer, or another body, shall, if determined by the Assembly and agreed by the Proposer, draw up a final draft of the law or a final draft of the law referred to in Article 180(6). In accordance with the draft law, it may be determined that the final draft law, or the final draft law, referred to in Article 187(6), is to be drawn up by the working body of the assembly or by the government and are then considered to be the legislator of the law, and the former proposing is to lose the position of the applicant." I, as a proposal for the basis of Article 188, declare that I accept that the final draft law draws up a working body of parliament and builds a government, either as this part alone, or as a whole. In fact, the SDP Club will propose that the parliament task the government to regulate this issue by regulation within 15 days. Therefore, the Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt certain acts in the section of the assembly is still in force until 15 July to 15 September and if the Government has prepared the text of the law, this provision can literally be put into law at the first session or at the second session of 10 days on Wednesday or Thursday. Therefore, I have no desire to take copyright for this law, I felt my duty in the oath in the Croatian Parliament to propose the bill, I was patient enough to give sufficient time to any other applicant, the government, the committee to propose so-called. A complete solution, but after 8 months, I find it very justified to listen a little more strongly to the arguments of those who have sought this law and who have written it, and to press the government to resolve this issue. I am aware that in history very rarely it happened that parliamentary laws, especially when it comes to this opposition MPs, have been accepted, but it has also happened many times that the ideas that have come from the law have been accepted afterwards, but it seems to me that it has never happened in the afternoon session of the assembly at the proposal of one representative on behalf of the Government, so in that sense how it has now happened I thank Mr. Minister for coming and calling on him to solve the ideas, the basic ideas of this law as soon as possible, and here I solemnly declare this when this problem is solved you will see me without a beard, and while you look at me with a beard you will know that this problem has not yet been solved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146842	Thank you. Please don't let any respected colleagues get into the word until they get the word. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146843	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bauk, you have listed a lot of what I normally agree with, and I believe what you have pointed out is that no one will be against this law in the sense that we solve this problem, is just a matter of how comprehensively or simply by changing this article that you have proposed. But when you say chronology, when you read to us here everything from the Rules of Procedure about the adoption of a final bill, and already when you do not want to take copyright on this law, I'm just curious that we have all followed the posts and that you have mentioned here about the Bračka buds and all of us 10th electoral units have been in contact with or with them or with colleagues from the Red Cross of the island of Brač. I wonder why you didn't take over copyright then as a minister from Brač and simply solved the problem because, as the association itself states, this has been a problem for a decade, not over the past year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146844	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146845	It's very clear that this proposal came to me in November last year, and I'm not saying that the colleagues who cited it didn't ask for it for 10 years, but it didn't happen to me, and I've been in the assembly since 2008. If it had come then it would have been formulated in the bill, or at least it would have been an amendment to the law that recalls in the last term when Penic's amendment was accepted by the government's votes of the Most. If it was then, it would have been the amendment. So, I have seen that, if this were what the promoters said that they had been fighting for 10 years, I do not claim that it was true, but to me such a proposal while I was acting as a duty as you stated, but even before I was a representative and the opposition didn't come, that it would certainly have been formulated in the bill or at least an amendment to the government's proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146846	The next replica of the esteemed colleague, Nikola Grmoy, is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146847	So, esteemed colleague Bauk, none of us here want to mean and colleague Strenja has also opened this topic, no one wants to necessarily pass this bill. We want this issue to be resolved, whether it will be resolved means by some government decision, whether the government will refer the law, what we insist on is that this problem be dealt with urgently. That's all we as opposition agents want. And we will support any proposal, here you have made one proposal when we, as part of the ruling majority, supported a proposal that was good. So in this sense the government can expect our support, the ruling majority for any proposal that will solve the problem means our children and their families. And in that sense, I am also supporting this bill of yours, but also any solution that will come from the government on behalf of the club, on behalf of the Most Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146848	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146849	Thank you very much. Comrade Bauk, I will not speak now who is from Brač, who is from Split, who is from Sinj. A fact like Bacic said. I'm going to say here that this is decisive, that this is not such a huge problem, and that it's such a big problem for children with developmental difficulties and their families that it's resolute. This isn't about billions of kunas or hundreds of millions of kunas, so the debate took 10 years, 9 years, it's embarrassing what now, which isn't 10 years ago, and especially now. So the solutions are offered in this case by an opposition representative which doesn't have to be a problem for the government. The government has the possibility of this resolution and regulations or any other decisions, and comprehensively if it is to be done in any other way, of course we will all accept it. And at this point we have to, and it's a colleague of Bauk, you've mentioned it well, any form of solving this problem is acceptable, it's acceptable and it's embarrassing that he hasn't been so far and I fully agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146850	Thank you. Comrade Bauk's answer, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146851	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, I think what will remain of the citizens of this debate should be that all parties have agreed to settle this as soon as possible in any form. There are several business opportunities for form, but the form must not be a reason for this to be delayed for a long time, so I asked yesterday how much it costs about a family a week, they told me 800 kuna, I'm passing it on, I'm passing it on here now. I and I invite you when you speak on behalf of the MOST Club, I see that you have been reported, to be gentle in expression, so that citizens do not get the impression that we are politicizing on the subject of children, and that is what I call on colleagues from HDZ and government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146852	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed colleague Bauk, by some estimates, is therefore a figure of 300 children, so 300 families. So, when this is recalculated into this ferry transport, it is one per se for the Croatian government, therefore, to the miserable so-called figure. So I don't see any reason, so in these three months of summer, that this bill of yours doesn't get rid of it. So it's not about large amounts of money, and that's the key we need to send here. It's just that these people are currently dealing with this situation and this is a matter of time for them. This is a matter of months for them, so they are financially exhausted, so in the conversation, and they are actually seen as a matter of every moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146854	Thank you. A fellow Bauk answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146855	The fastest way to get rid of this, and we'll all agree on the government's regulation with the legal force that the government would bring when the council stops sitting. And that's where the government will have our absolute support. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146856	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146857	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In an individual debate, I will possibly elaborate more because there will be more time, but right now I've actually realized in what you were saying to my colleague Bauk that some people may not have empathy, and perhaps you and your club members have empathy, so that was the reason for the bill, even though you stayed here alone at the club, now you joined Mr. Djujic by accident. However, by proposing this law, you have read the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament and Article 174, and you have only read one part, and I would dare say in the preparation of this law you did not follow this very Rules of Procedure because here you do not receive an assessment of the resources needed to implement this law. I'm not going to say that this law is counter-constitutional, but at least it's discriminatory, I saw you talking about two categories later, people with disabilities and children in development with developmental difficulties, but it only includes those who have a residence on islands. What about those who are on land, and they should come to the islands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146858	Thank you, colleague Babic. The answer to my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146859	So as far as the bill's proposal is concerned, he's in the first reading, that the final proposal you could submit an amendment to exactly that, but it wasn't the intensity of this law to solve the whole problem but to point it out. The whole problem is solved by the final proposal, either by the government, or by the representatives. As for the so-called so-called. discrimination, so the fact is that they're from the island going to the mainland that they have to do every day or almost every day. Those who go from land to the island don't do it so often. It's a fact and the problem is bigger for people on the island than for people on land, but let's get in, let's not get into one logical inversion, if the lack of this law doesn't cover even more people then it costs less, and not more, then it's a financial advantage for him, so let's not discredit him in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146860	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Snow White Sabolek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146861	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Representative Bauk, here I would only partially repeat the bill that should allow for free transport in coastal and maritime transport to children with developmental difficulties with residence on the island, persons with disabilities with residence on the island, donors of blood with residence on the island, who offered blood at least 36 times, and now would repeat the opinion that the government has adopted and which is next. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament not to accept the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport. I sincerely hope that it will not remain in the government's view and that this issue, this socially sensitive issue, will be dealt with urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146862	Thank you. My colleague Bauk's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146863	Honorable MPs, when I saw the government's opinion, I didn't overstate myself to be depressed or upset, I believed that it would be resolved within a reasonable time, I still believe, and I hope it will be before the Parliament's autumn session. And to say a little self-critics, and during our government, the government in which I was a member, there was a situation where the government would reject the opposition bill by saying that it would be resolved entirely, sometimes resolved, sometimes not. If you remember Mladen Novak and the Children's Compensation Act, it was one of the more embarrassing decisions of our parliamentary majority when we refused his law in the first reading but then it was settled. Therefore, if you want to repeat the mistake of our parliamentary majority, then you will go as we did then, and if we want to resolve this issue then rise above it, be smarter than us, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146864	I thank my colleague, Bauk. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146865	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor. Dear Representative Bauk, 9.4.2018, held a meeting in Split attended by Minister Butkovic, President of Jadrolinija Management David Sopta, Director of the Agency for Lined Transport Paula Vidović and representatives of the initiative, 30 associations of persons with disabilities of the Republic of Croatia. The meeting unanimously concluded that the minister supported that he would provide funds for the achievement of benefits for the free transport of persons with disabilities, persons accompanying them and the free transport of their vehicles, so privileged transport in line coastal transport includes transportation with a discount and free transport. In the category of those who are free transport, logically comes and transport persons with disabilities, I believe that the law is ready and that goes in the final... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146866	Thank you, colleague Kirin, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146867	There is no need to challenge the proposal to pass the laws of this or in the form of someone else's business so that the problem can be solved by what would be in April. It's been three months since April to this day. and if the position is accepted, the one that has been given to the government so far, there will be at least three more if not more until this proposal is adopted. If there's anything you can do before or as our people say, what you can do today, doesn't leave for tomorrow, then let him get rid of it. And that is the simplest conclusion in the proposal that the Government solves it in a regulation. Otherwise, what you quoted, yesterday on their Facebook account were published by the Bračka Pupoli, so earlier in April, the promise that the amendments to the law would take place by emergency procedure and before the summer assembly break was given by the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure, and his support was promised by the President of the Republic, unfortunately, none of them have fulfilled the promised, now the minister may tell us.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146868	I thank my colleague, Bauk. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146869	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Bauk, well this is the Government's answer very harshly to all those who need help and who need a cheaper ticket to return from the island and what Jadrolinia did then that she gave a 90% discount probably with the blessing of the minister who is responsible for that part is the road but apparently that the Government simply doesn't want your bill to be in the parliamentary procedure and there's no time or no desire to settle it by law or regulation, so I don't believe we'll experience that the government in the next two weeks. or a month before he goes on vacation, the government will pass a regulation that will legalize this because they will again admit that you were right and that is the basic problem that, for their own PRs and political reasons, no such law is passed and the government gives such a shameful opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146870	Thank you. Answer, Comrade Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146871	I can't agree that this is for PR reasons because if it's for PR reasons, it's a terrible PR. So, the government's conduct and parliamentary majority on this issue from November to this day is the behavior of an elephant in a glass mill. They're doing untold damage to themselves because of something I can fix right away that doesn't cost much and that everyone can say hello. And all the time I'm proposing solutions so they don't turn out like that. And they keep trying to turn out like that. But here's hoping it won't happen eventually, that this will work out by the end of the month, and then we can continue to argue on other issues like the government and the opposition do. So this opinion of the government in January held me water, okay, you suggested something, solved it, no longer holds water in July, so that's clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146872	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146873	Thank you very much. As a colleague, Bauk, no one is against the fact that children with developmental disabilities have the right to free transport and vehicle and as a person and it is something that will happen but we will address the overall proposal of the Government, the more we wrote in the Law on Islands that children and their followers have the right to free transport and obviously that they are the remaining problem of the vehicle but I'm interested in this fact, means we've been peed already today, means 10 years ago there's been a certain initiative, associations that are struggling with it, you've changed this law in 2013 and it's a little wider and more comprehensive, and then neither you nor Mrsic, a colleague Mrssic, have remembered that there are such initiatives and that you've already been incorporated into the Law on public coastal transport and that this problem has been solved than you've now remembered that someone told you that a year ago. It's not true, someone doesn't tell the truth then, and today we're going to discuss it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146874	Thank you. Answer me, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146875	Mr. Boric, if we're talking about 10 years, in 2009, you were then an assistant or secretary of state, did that initiative come to you then? There you go. What makes you think that if she came to you as a resolute official, that I, as then a simple representative, a young and promising opposition, had come to me? ... Not even the minister has come. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So that's what I was already saying to Mr. Bacic. [[Intrudica Brkic: Please, colleague Boric, do not enter the word of colleague Bauku.]] I'm not saying that this initiative doesn't exist for 10 years, I can only say that the moment that the amendment of the legal article came to me, that I wrote a bill of law and I referred it to the procedure aware of all the circumstances that happens when an opposition representative directs the law into the procedure as a means of pressure and you obviously underestimated it and now you've brought yourself into a situation that 15 of you must defend one of me, but you don't have to defend yourself, I will support you if you solve this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146876	I thank my colleague Bauk for his reply. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, thank you very much. I ask the Government's representative, the respected Minister of the Sea, Transport, Infrastructure, Mr. Butkovic, to give us an explanation and opinion of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146877	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues, respected parliamentary representatives and MPs, I welcome you all here, and I must take this opportunity because the government took its stand in January of the adoption and the proposals that Mr. Bauk was making, and what I want to say at the very beginning, is not true because it has created such an impression that the Government of the Republic of Croatia or as a body that it adopts and proposes laws to the Croatian Parliament, including parliamentary representatives from the position, is against the adoption of such a law and such a proposal which aims to solve not only children with difficulty in developing travel and transport and going to rehab, etc. to the mainland than to this problem and to solve that problem we started last year. That I am telling the truth, and I signed it in April 2018 when Mr. Bauk's proposal was not yet available because your proposal came 6 or 7 months ago. Later, the recommendation for Jadrolini to introduce a 90% discount, a commercial discount on vehicles and on people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. In other words, he who travels from the island which belongs to these categories does not pay 100% but pays 10% of the price or which is provided and determined to the price price of Jadrolinija. And it has been applied and applied today. So right at the very beginning, I want to say, no opposition proposal or position, and I don't even know what parliamentary representative, we know about this problem, and the next thing we did, we formed a working group at the ministry that numbers 14 people, 3 times it met in January, April and June, three times it met, and at these meetings it was discussed that this problem was solved, and that it involved not only children with developmental difficulties but also all disabled 100%, military people, 80%, without extremes, etc., etc., and all of this will be said by Parliament's representative Lukacic who was involved. Following that, I was, it is true, I was in May, somewhere in early May I was in Brač and I met with that association and it is not true that I promised that it would be until the summer break, I told them that it would be settled, that the law would go into emergency procedure and go, such is the proposal and, of course, that law goes to public consultation next week, it is over, it is agreed and after a month predicts that the public consultation will end, that it will be in the government's procedure in September and after that and October will be here in the Croatian Parliament. So, a 90% discount has been introduced to find a complete solution to the whole problem, I repeat not only for children with developmental difficulties but also for people with disabilities and we see in this proposal a new law, you will see people with disabilities who have identified physical damage to the lower extremities of 80% or more, Croatian military people with 100% physical impairment and persons who have been diagnosed with physical impairment with 100% vision on ferry lines for vehicles, for children with developmental difficulties III. and IV. the degree of disability, etc. and that requires ensuring at the level of the year, these are data from the Coastal and Linear Transport Agency rather than around 15 million kunas, these funds have been found, they will be in the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and this problem will be solved. I didn't have to politicize this all together, I don't want to politicize it at all, I shouldn't have politicized it at all, I shouldn't have politicized it at all, I shouldn't have politicized it at any point, I'm telling the facts, I'm telling you, how it all went together and what order it was. By then, tomorrow, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am also with the Prime Minister, will reach a conclusion, I have made a recommendation, 90%, and this is done by the Jadrolini, not all shipmen, apply the Rape navigation, some day, some not, tomorrow will be the government's conclusion that it will go 100% to the adoption of the law to apply 100% release not only to children with developmental difficulties but to all people with disabilities as we have established it. Your proposal wasn't malicious, nor did we reject it because it was malicious, because it came from the SDP or I don't know who but we wanted to solve it completely. Your proposal was, I'm not gonna say bad, he's good, but he hasn't dealt with things as a whole, as all associations of disabled, roof, etc. We also wanted to hear them in this work. It's true to you, and this is how things are for you, and I end up here. So the government refused in January because we first had to put it for this year in the legislative action plan of amending that law, you know this procedure even better than I did because you were the minister of administration, so everything went in its own order and there is no reason to create hypnosis in Croatian society that this problem does not want to be solved. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146878	I would like to thank the respected minister and the explanation and the government's opinion, we have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146879	Dear Ministers, the sequence of activities that you have listed if it will lead to a solution that children with developmental difficulties and this whole concept, of course, if it is done, means however, because this thing has moved and will come to a solution. But here it's done as you said about 15 million kuna, I don't think there should be as many procedures as there are, regulations, there are possibilities of making a decision as you said that Jadrolini respects 90% of the reliefs, benefits but also a number of other shipowners, so I think that this initiative should not be rejected in that way but can simply be said the Government will do this, that, that, until the final legal solution. Therefore, this legislative initiative that was launched back in the 11th month. She was on the board in the third month. The one I attended, I think it was enough time to get rid of this, but to get rid of those kids now, everyone on the islands will be welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146880	Thank you. Answer, Minister Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146881	Here's the esteemed representative, I've come to be really simple and clear in this presentation. You know, I repeat, my colleague Bauk went with a proposal to see if it was at the end of last year, we already brought a recommendation to Jadrolini in April 2018 for these 90%. His proposal wasn't bad nor did we reject him for the reason he was half-assed to us and for the associations that deal with it, we can't accept something, then in two months. I'll go back to changing the law. So it's a clear matter of the process of solving the whole problem, I really explained the simplest thing, so tomorrow the government will conclude that it's no longer 90 but 100% and the law goes in that order in the procedure as I told you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146882	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146883	Thank you very much. Minister, thank you for what you've told us, meaning that the government will conclude by now 100% discount, means free transport until the law is passed, we clearly show that we understand what the citizens want to tell us last year 2018. Jadrolini, I see the data, so 1600 car tickets and 3500 passenger tickets were for people with disabilities, so their escort and vehicles. And now the question is whether it's just to the island of Brac or it's to all the islands. So we want all islands to have the right, regardless of what the initiative has come from the island of Brac and more associations, and to keep this thing permanent and not to open such issues anymore, since the Island Act has been passed and has become in force since the beginning of the year and it provides for free transport to persons with disabilities and their escort.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146884	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric. Next replica, esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146885	So, respected ministers, I think it's good that although HDZ colleagues especially those who are members of the board have had to defend themselves against this public pressure, I think it's good to create this kind of public pressure because they will first solve the problem. I don't think there's anything wrong with it or anything that my colleagues have been saying here, I think that there's even been an excessively peaceful colleague named Bauk, he's even admitted some mistakes by the ruling coalition, that I haven't noticed any politicizing here but a desire to get rid of this as soon as possible. There were no attacks or colleagues from the HDZ here by us in the Parliament, but the desire that the Government, means that you as minister, influences that this problem is solved as soon as possible and I see nothing in this debate, I think now everyone will be able to see that you too want it to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146886	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146887	Dear Minister, here you can actually see how effective the government is and you're a little termological if you can answer me two very simple questions, two simple things. First, you are saying that there are associations that have been objecting to accept the solution proposed by my colleague Bauk, so if you know which persons with disabilities are in writing or in any way dissent with such a solution. Secondly, here to amend one article of the law, then you have a commission of 14 articles, you need 6 months. to change that law, well it's a matter of efficiency but I'm also interested in why you didn't in January when you rejected this proposal by colleagues Bauk, you made this conclusion that you're going to make next week, that everyone has the right to 100% exemption from the price of the cards. Why didn't you do it in January, but now that the public's pressure is high, when it's tearing your ratings down?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146888	I thank my colleague Mrsic. Answer, Minister Butkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146889	Mr. Mrs. Gristle, in my line of work and in what I've been doing around this law, I'm not running any ratings at all, but I've tried to explain it nicely to you. I didn't say that some associations were against or were in favour of, what my colleague Bauk suggested, none of us could be against. And no one is against his solution. We're just for reasons to solve the whole problem not only repeat children with developmental difficulties but all disabled people, those categories, you're a doctor, you understand it better than I do, you refused and went into overall problem solving, no one is against fellow Bauk and his proposal because I made that clear and said this. As for these 100%, we applied 90% last year in April, and we thought we were going to pass the law this year and we're going to get it, so let's be on the strength of that 90% that's not and that's a great relief but it was at the very beginning. So, It's the facts. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146890	Next replica of the esteemed colleague Marko Sladolev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146891	Dear fellow Minister, I would just look back on that and you have to understand us opposition MPs, so we've been getting some sort of a full-time explanation from the government so that no specific legal initiatives are being adopted because there's a whole solution waiting for us, so it wasn't logical for me at the moment, it's not even now because it's like having two kids and now you have a child opportunity to get rid of I don't know a ride to school free of charge that doesn't have, and you're saying I don't want to solve that child's transportation because it's not fair to this other child. So let's go solve what's possible at a given moment as quickly as possible, that's all it was.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146892	Minister Butkovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146893	Your Honor, one thing, there was a debate today that took 10 years of initiative and the struggle of disabled associations, and I don't know what to solve this issue. And now we have a proposal from Mr. Bauk, which we think is not complete and we have a complete one that will be brought to the Croatian Assembly in no more than 3 months from today. We have 90 percent release from commercial, 90 percent released. And now who can read that there are evil intentions and that there is no government or minister's intention or I don't know who to solve this problem. Here's what I mean is one logical question that I really have to ask you. It doesn't exist, I assure you, we've listened to completely disabled people, it's a very sensitive question, it's a very sensitive question, a very sensitive person, someone has children with developmental difficulties is 17 years old, until the year has 18 whether this applies to him the same thing. That was a lot of questions we had to resolve.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146894	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, respected colleague Ljubica Lukačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'm here listening to this debate, and I see that many colleagues here don't understand much about what this law is about, and I'm asking you nicely, just to say whether the Association of Persons with Disabilities has agreed on the definition that you've decided to put into the law and which will be in the government's conclusion tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146896	Thank you. Minister Butkovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146897	My answer is yes, did we have a few meetings and I said how many times and this one we really respected all their thoughts and associations Bračka Pupolje and I don't know that I don't list them all as many as there are but also roof associations of people with disabilities, so we respected the opinions absolutely and in the bill of law and in this conclusion that will be made tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146898	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146899	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you are too much of a volunteer as far as the SDP is concerned, especially Mr. Arsen Bauk. Arsen Bauk is a socialist who is a perfidcan and is very skilled today here in the Croatian Parliament presented the part regarding the proposal for this law. So, we all have empathy with people with disabilities and Mrs. Lukacic will tell you on behalf of the HDZ Club. However, you should be careful when talking about categories of people with disabilities. In the Republic of Croatia there are 508,437 people with disabilities, so when we talk about such things in this case Mr. Sladolev is talking about 300 families on the island of Brac that have persons with disabilities, this information is not right at all, it is not like that at all. So this was the Red Cross City Society proposal, among other things, to help go to the directors of blood from the island of Brac, as I say again, we must be careful about such concepts and what you say about helping disabled people. You said 90% and now it's paid, so for a person with disabilities, a person with an escort and a vehicle.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146900	My friend Grandma, thank you very much, but I'd like to ask you to keep an eye on your time, and you and your other colleagues. Next replica, respected counterpart Tomislav Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146901	An esteemed colleague, or Minister Butkovic, who has listened to your presentation here may ask himself why today's debate on this law, if the ministry and the government have set a 90 per cent advantage, if it is said that by the end of this year, the entire law will go through the emergency procedure, if it is said that there will be no only initiative for this part of the population but also for all people with disabilities, means that the government has been responsible for accessing this problem and that it brings a complete solution. If we're talking about why this initiative, which is why this kind of public pressure, is simply for the reason that all of your work and the government's successes would be diminished. I don't see any other reason besides that. Anyway, I think this debate in this tone today is completely unnecessary. I believe that colleague Lukacic will read more about it because it belongs to that group of our citizens and I think that This part of how you did your job that you did very well. [[Intruder: I thank my colleague Klaric.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146902	Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146903	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honors Minister, here's the first thing I'm glad you joined us here on this bill, and I deliberately volunteered last so that I could withdraw the debate individually, because I don't think it makes any sense anymore. I'll repeat just for the end of that perhaps and as a parrot, you said the law is moving in the procedure of public debate in two weeks, after which it will be sent to emergency procedure i.e. In September, the government will send an emergency procedure of law to the assembly and plans to be adopted in autumn. At the 10th month until then stands this recommendation to Jadrolinija of 100% release, so I don't think we have as much further discussion as possible, I thank you this way. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146904	I'd like to thank my colleague Bacic. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146905	Thank you very much. My fellow ministers and colleagues, we have before us a proposal for a Transport Complementary Act, a linear transport to occasional coastal maritime transport. Of course, here's everything my colleagues have said and as a proposing colleague, Bauk, no matter who suggested him, I have repeatedly repeated your numerous promises here, your conclusions, but I am asking you here to solve this problem. This is about children on all islands, it's about 300 children with developmental difficulties, it's about the Ministers working out that the Government can handle it with its own regulation. I know you'll list everything you've done to make a recommendation, but the recommendation is something that's not binding to private shipmen, which means that private shipmen I don't know if they're meeting your recommendation and that you've made it up to them you haven't talked about it, you're talking about a state-owned company. about Jadrolinija, therefore this problem is very easy to resolve and I think that's what the Proposer said. I was on the Committee on Transport in the 3rd month also had my own bill of law then was a colleague of the Bauk with his bill of law on the board that did not pass then. So at the 11th month, this law was proposed. We can talk here about the integrity of solving this problem, but here is a very easy solution problem. The problem is solved by one regulation. I don't know what your conclusion is, that this conclusion of yours will also be a 100% recommendation that you have stated and will apply to private shipmen, and here it's all working means for all children with developmental difficulties and this proposal where blood donors talk to volunteers and as blood donors I'm personally where with 36 blood donations, 36 times men, and 25 times women who have given blood is also acceptable. However, here we all were really all together regardless of the opposition, were ruling here quoted by counterpart Bauk and example representative Penic, who was then in opposition to the SDP, then accepted for the first time the amendment, and this was a free transport for emergency assistance that was on the islands, where, where the ambulance had to pay for the transport, and then MOST voted for the opposition, amendment of the opposition councilman and the amendment had passed and no one had fallen from the crown. The government has fallen, but no one's crown is from behind. Here's what I'm sorry the minister left, I think he can offer, okay there you are, I think it's a very simple solution. That the pressure of the public against the representatives who did not accept it was a fruit. He's bearing fruit because it's true that 90% didn't pay for it, only in Jadrolinia. I repeat, in private shipping, in the private transport of shipping lines, that obligation was not binding on ministers. So you have the opportunity to solve this problem and I don't think what the HDZ colleagues are stressing here, and Ines Strenja Linic, as chairman of the Assembly's Health Committee, called the session thematically and at that session she usurped, culminated this proposal until the heat and, of course, I understand that the minister will list all the good he did, and ultimately the recommendation is not the solution. The recommendation is not a solution, and on the integrity of the law, when he will come into the procedure, he will come into the procedure, whether it will be the end of the year, but I think my colleague Bauk here was a benevolent, said he accepted all the solutions. To make this a government's free proposal, to make this a proposal, but I think this current problem, 300 children with developmental difficulties, is a very resolute minister, and I think it would be good for you to come out here and say, on behalf of the government, that the government will solve these 15 million kunas by means of a regulation. So, it's not, we're talking about 15 million kunas a year for all the kids, I don't know, my colleague Babic just said that it's not true that it's on Brac, we're talking about 300 million children, so for all 15 million. So, even for everything, what people with disabilities are entering is not just children with developmental difficulties. So, I think that this problem is good that he culminated in the public, he's kept quiet as it's been stressed since the 11th month since now, and now to say if he was a colleague of Bauk's minister, that from Brač, he didn't solve it, that someone else's tribo has not been resolved, that the list of Minister Butkovics I often attack for other things that I'm going to attack him, but here I don't want to attack him, here I don't want to politicise, here I want to tell all of us MPs that the government's opinion isn't the smartest done, that the word itself refuses to be this proposal is not the best solution. I think that our communication with the Committee on Transport, there was until a moment ago, that the tribal of our communication, sat down with the legislator of this law that was in the procedure and found the best solution. And at this point, the minister is offering the best solution to the regulation. The government regulation has the power as well as the law, I think this can be resolved to the final solution of the whole as you say solutions, of course there is a broader context this story also needs on land, there is also a need on my Dalmatian burn. But this is about children on the island, it's about their escorts paying a huge amount. I'm glad to hear from you that you've solved 90% for Jadrolini, it's nice to have a number of local self-government units also helping, regional self-government, but in order to be permanently resolved, I need you to say a whole law. And this part that my colleague Bauk gave me as a proposer from the MOST Club, and most importantly there was the most interesting story of all of this, like all of us parliamentary representatives, the person who runs it means Health and Social Care Committee, it's for the health care of this lady. Ines Strenja Linic, who also called the thematic session from that session, essentially culminated this story. I think you should end this minister's story to come out here for a pay phone and just take this step that won't diminish you, it won't cut your crown by these 15 million kunas by this regulation and the whole law, or as you agree with the Proposer to get rid of these kids. We are no longer talking about these children with developmental difficulties and this way that there is no public perception of anyone that it is against children with developmental difficulties, that this problem is solved. And of course you will have about the MOST club and support in the full resolution of this law because this is a question of children, it is not a question of politics or our political struggle, or the PR or anything but a simple question of children. I believe that there are ways of doing business, legally, that this part should be solved immediately so that we simply to the satisfaction of these children, we can solve these people who have problems with their own, have problems with line transport, have problems with large amounts that they pay as escorts and for their drivers. Here we again expect from you ministers that you will rise above all else and that you will show this broadness of yours that you often display in your speech. For everyone else, I'm going to criticize you for not being good and for this, if you accept this wherever I come, I'm going to praise you all. I believe that we all have a big heart for children here, that we're going to leave this above politics and I believe, below political levels and really any kind of story, mentioning these children, their parents, and alienating that story doesn't do anyone any good. And I don't think he should be nervous, and I don't think any of the MPs and MPs should be saying that Parliamentarians don't understand. We live in real society with the real needs of people. I know what it's like in my neighborhood, colleagues, these people are living, what are health problems, which, I know, and here it's obvious that associations and people have rebelled who have this problem and in this case it's about children. And we don't have any problem here to support this, I don't think you'll have this problem either. We have a legal solution. You have the opportunity to talk to the proposer. What you agree we are co-signing to do this in the emergency procedure that simply the President of the Parliament had to put this item on the agenda but signed more than 30 MPs. We signed the proposal from the club MOST of fellow Bauk, without any problem so I believe that you ministers can rise up and that the Croatian Government solves this problem with any regulation, either way, and this framework law that will solve all the problems I believe will come as soon as possible but here is the problem I expect you to solve. It's a nice hall.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146906	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the HDZ on behalf of which Ljubica Lukacic, a respected representative, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146907	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Proposer, colleague Bauk, dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to point out my sincere regret that today and in this debate that I believe may no longer make sense since we have all heard that the government has found a solution and has not found it today, it has not found it today, but for some time the government has been preparing a solution that will earlier, which will be in force before the law is passed. But I regret that today I have heard pity from many colleagues for those with disabilities. That's what people with disabilities don't like the most. I believe that you all know, if not, in two, three sentences I will repeat to you how much this government has done for people with disabilities so far. The prime minister and I have personally developed a programme for people with disabilities that no other party has ever had. The program wasn't my ideas, nor the Prime Minister's ideas, but he was in line with people with disabilities. I think that means something. In these nearly 3 years of office, this government, I will only mention two rights, has increased its personal disability and compensation for assistance and care that no one has touched for 20 years. Do you know how much that means to people with disabilities? These are some segments that are good to bear in mind to know how much this government does for people with disabilities, and I have to tell the Prime Minister personally that it's a man who has, I'm not even going to say sensibility, but who has a lot of knowledge about people with disabilities unlike many. Well, let's go back to this law that we've already heard here several times today that we don't think is complete, that it's missing, right. I have no doubt in my mind the very good intentions of my colleague Arsen Bauke, at all. I've done it on all the boards I've participated in and repeated. But people with disabilities don't like half your solutions the most, now give it to them, so take it tomorrow. According to this proposal, that's exactly how it would have happened. If this proposal is an association, it doesn't matter which associations, then unfortunately here I have to point out that these associations don't understand what's going on in Croatia and what's going on with people with disabilities. I think everyone should know that Croatia's experts according to new criteria, and that's what Mrsic knows because he was the minister when we introduced new criteria. And great, I commend, excellent, I'm just sorry those criteria didn't live up to the time that Mrsic was a minister, so today we have to edit it ourselves, this government. This government finally regulates the criteria for determining disability and finally regulates who will do it. We didn't have it until today. Who will bring solutions and disability? But I've talked about it a few times, so I'm not going to go any further than I'm going to say here's a few words why do we think this law is flawed and not complete? This law applies primarily to children with developmental difficulties and to persons with disabilities living on islands, who have a residence on the island. It's discrimination. You all know that Croatia signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities as the third country in the world and that the Convention in Article 5 clearly states that signatories will do everything possible to avoid discrimination. However, we must not allow discrimination, especially discrimination, between disabled people. So the right to this transport must also be given to persons on land. I allow that we can talk about this and this government is thinking about it, but not alone, not alone, but in partnership with people with disabilities, which is why I reiterate that since the first day he became prime minister he said he wants people with disabilities to be partners with him and that's why I'm sitting here today as a representative. That's why the prime minister gave me his place because he trusted me to do my job in a fair and correct way, and so on. It is very difficult for colleagues and colleagues to agree on a definition of who will be entitled to a certain privilege. Because you have adults with disabilities who have several solutions. Which of these will be relevant to you, they can't all be because people on the counters, any boaters or anywhere they won't even know what they're reading. So you have to determine which document is evidence of disability. Today, new people with disabilities do not know such solutions at all because they no longer need such solutions, there is a new view, i.e. findings and opinions, since we are skilled in the new system. So that's one of the reasons why this law isn't flawed. It states here that this right should have people with disabilities. What's a heavy disability? Where do you have a document that says that Ljubica Lukačić is a person with a severe disability? Nowhere, it doesn't exist. It used to exist in the description, only in the description, never in the disability qualification. It doesn't exist. Whether that's the third or fourth level we're skilling today or that's 80 percent. If it's just the lower extremities or generally. Do you know that today there are people who have more than 80% body damage, in general, I'm not talking about lower extremities now that you'd say they're not people with disabilities. And certainly not, but they have physical damage, however, this physical damage did not produce disability and thank God that it did not. Therefore, you must be very careful to determine the definition of who it will be. There was no other way why it took so long? In a conversation with the Minister and with the Associations of Persons with Disabilities, I have expressed my wish and it is not only my wish, but ultimately, the UN Convention states that no regulation governing the problem for people with disabilities should be passed without persons with disabilities, without them participating in working groups. And that's why it took so long, and that's why the Ministry had to wait so long, there was no choice. We now only to you for information, the Government at these moments is making, or a working group is making the Act on Inclusive Adjectives and the Law on Personal Assistance. You know how hard it is to find definitions? It's extremely difficult. You find a descriptive definition that is in the Convention, which is so plastic, so wide that you would, I don't know, tell everyone that a person with disabilities but that no country allows such a broad exercise of rights but must determine which person it will have the right to do so. So people with disabilities said the minister agreed on the definition when it comes to exercising the right to free transport. So far, we've heard more than once today, that, and those disabled people haven't paid the full price of tickets. You have a 90 percent subsidy, you know how much it's worth? That's three kunas and about 17 limes, I think that's what they told me in Jadrolinia, $3.17 per person, so for a person with disabilities or a child with developmental difficulties and for his escort and 15 kuna for a car. However, 4x per year all persons with disabilities in the Republic of Croatia have 75% discount and free escort and free car. That's what it's been so far. And I agree that people who are leaving, so I won't say it every day because I'm almost sure nobody goes every day because unfortunately, and I can't even get therapy every day. And another thing you need to know is that all persons with disabilities and all children with developmental difficulties from the island do not necessarily go to the mainland for rehabilitation, because both Brač and Hvar, I mention those two islands because they are the largest, so there is a systematic rehabilitation solution in some other islands. There are houses with the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance that have contracts and conduct medical rehabilitation at their homes or at their institutions or conduct it at home. The fact that there may not be enough on the islands, not perhaps, but certainly enough defectologists, enough or't educational rehabilitators, there aren't enough logos, but that respected colleague and colleague don't even have enough on land. We manage as we know it. Being a logo wasn't once an interesting profession, but today it became. And we don't have them today, so we're going to do everything we can to get as many of them as possible so that children on the islands and children on the mainland can have equal opportunities, equal rights and early interventions, as well as all other forms of rehabilitation. Therefore, I am sorry that people with disabilities are actually used in politics. And that's what politics really is. And I still have to say that I'm extremely sorry right now as my colleague, Bauk, a lot of people with disabilities and a minister while he was talking, a lot of people with disabilities are, only, of course, I can't and I don't want to answer, but they sent me a message on my cell phone asking why the Assembly's session isn't being broadcast because they wanted to listen. I'm sorry that the media are not so interested today and they've been talking about HDZ for 10 days now, but they're talking about MPs who, I won't say yes, but who didn't accept a bill like this that wasn't good. What's everybody been saying about us for 10 days? But, well, we're used to that, so I very much welcome Mr. Minister that tomorrow the government will make a recommendation to a conclusion that will be one bridge, one solution to the law that will meet the needs of all persons with disabilities in the entire Republic of Croatia and such a formulation, Let me finish the sentence, Mr. Vice President. [[Thank you very much.]] Then such a formulation will be recommended. [[Intruder Reiner: Yes, but you've been way too long, so please.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146908	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of GLAS and HSU on behalf of which the respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146909	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, and I would like to welcome the minister, my colleagues and my colleagues. At first, I want to say what is formal and important, and this is that as a club of GLAS and HSU we will support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act by line and occasional coastal and maritime transport, very clearly why, despite the fact that the ruling majority rejects it. Because we symbolically support an initiative that pushes the government to resolve this issue. Point. Now, about what's going on around this law. So today's debate is a school example of why citizens despise representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Think about it. You've been replicating each other for 45 minutes for what? In principle, wisdom in nothing. So the fact is, the problem exists, it doesn't exist for 10 years, it's been fought for by people for 10 years because they organized for 10 years, the problem exists much earlier. What do you think once existed in Croatia that could be driven free of charge by all ships? Of course not. We're like an immature society and everyone wears their own part of the crime scene. The fact is, therefore, that the initiative came from a circle of NGOs that make up those to whom this problem is concerned, as well as a thousand times so far. So, neither the parliamentary representatives nor the parties in parliament, nor the government as such whose attention was brought to this problem almost a year ago, and now it's hypocritical to say we can't accept this proposal because it's incomplete, we're going to settle it with full amendments to the law, so that's nothing but pure euphemism to say we don't want to accept your proposal because you suggested it. Otherwise, why would the government draw a conclusion tomorrow? So the conclusion tomorrow is more than a complete solution to the temporary character, which is something else, in the same rank as this, but it may be more complete in some way, but it's not a change of law as a whole, which was spoken to the board that it should be carried out. So far, no government has been an angelic government as far as these issues are concerned. I've been hearing for 10 years that the government is going to implement a complete reform of the entire system that rests in its very foundations on injustice and because of this injustice we can say that our state is moderately moderated to an unsatisfactory state unlike a society that is very solid because society solves problems with pressures, humanitarian actions, money collection, and not the state only when it has to, but it will be properly praised that the fiscal situation of the state has stabilized, that we have a budget surplus, but when it comes to a solution to concrete situations, then, we don't see it. So, in the very root our system of care for persons with disabilities is godless, he is unjust, he is inhuman. The very fact that the right people with disabilities rely not on the kind of disability, but in the way they acquire disability is so blasphemous that it's corruptly rude, which is part of our system, so 5 people who don't have a leg don't have the same extremity, but in different situations they've acquired it, someone by birth, someone in a car accident, someone in a war like a civilian disabled, someone in a war like a military disability, someone because they've experienced some other form of accidents at work, 5 people are the same disability, equally difficult conditions of life, an equally difficult cross that would be said, but they all have different rights, it's a fact that government in our society. It's true, look at the rights of those who lost it in the war compared to those who lost in the workplace, right? The fact that everyone praises their prime minister, so of course I would like this prime minister to be more successful than any of them, because that will mean that we are on the right track, to learn, to make progress, he is also my prime minister, this is my government, too, but everyone boasted, and behind each one remains unresolved very many questions. So let's cover our ears. We have been warned by those whom this problem refers to that the problem is great for them and for the state is minor. Let's show the scruples and let's get rid of it. But let's face it, the system isn't right, no government wanted to deal with making a thorough reform and to show that we're building a socially just state, no, that's how you are, ma'am. Lukacic would have nothing to do, and you spent your entire mandate more or less correcting government policies and helping them from his perspective, long-term activists, from the space of people with disabilities to create something, there were before you and there will be after you, but the state should have shown much more of its own initiative than waiting for any parliamentary representative or advocate of the ruling majority, it doesn't matter if it's called Vesna Škulić or Ljubica Lukačić, has to engage around these things in order for the government to react, it's a real fact and truth about us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146910	Now we're going to move to an individual debate, the first to come forward is Honorable Representative Marko Sladolev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, therefore, would begin this debate with a people's wisdom that is suitable for today's situation, which is no delay for tomorrow what you can do today. My colleagues and colleagues, we have a small but important legislative proposal from my colleague Arsena Bauk, which consists of only two legal articles, but we could say two articles that mean a lot to our small islanders with physical and other difficulties. The aim and purpose of the law is very simple, as well as its text, to enable children with developmental difficulties who have a residence on the island, who need additional support for learning and development in on-shore health institutions, free transport, in order to achieve the best possible development outcome and social inclusion. In MOST, we accept this proposal as self-evident. We are pleased that Minister Butkovic said that this problem will be resolved and let's be honest he got rid of the media pressure, only personally I was not in favour of calling out colleagues from the ruling majority, nor do I ever do that, personally I think that colleagues are also in favour of solving this problem, but you must understand us from the opposition that, with the help of the media, we want to achieve some legal solution that would help these people at that time. It would also be likely that, on the contrary, if the SDP were in power, HDZ gentlemen would probably contact these associations or the Brač Pupoli or any other association, they would propose this for their legal solution and criticise the authorities for why this does not happen. This is how the rule in Croatia works, and the rule should simply be accepted. So the media exposure of this case has led to the government wanting to solve this problem, but in opposition, we will also warn of this resolution and the full legislative solution and speed things up because it is our role in the assembly. A colleague before me also said that what the government has brought, here is also what a partial solution will bring tomorrow. Yes, sometimes a partial solution is needed to help these people, sometimes not fully legal enough. That's enough, but time here is important. And he would refer to the role of associations in making legal proposals. I personally believe that even though we here are parliamentary representatives chosen by the people, that associations dealing with and having a particular problem, the specific association of the Bračka buds or some other much better know a specific problem than ourselves. And that their experience and their suggestions are precious. So we have a fact that some associations therefore also create government policies here is Mrs. Jelena Veleca, in some way, creating a policy of relations in family violence, which is why the Association of Bračka Pupoli or some other association would not be involved in the legislative proposals proposed here. Therefore, the advice and legal proposals of the association should not be rejected but should be regarded as valuable and as something that can contribute to a better legal solution. So again, I repeat my example, so my country, I consider my country as one big family, and if I had two or three children in my family, and if I had a chance to get rid of one child within a period of time, I don't know, I would sign to get rid of it, I wouldn't wait for it to get rid of all the kids, because at that point, it would help that one child. That's how I look at this legal proposal and the Most Independent Lists will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146912	Thank you very much. We have a replica of a respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146913	Thank you very much. My colleague Sladolev, there's only one thing that matters here. The minister said that in conclusion, the government's conclusion would make a recommendation. The recommendation is not binding on private boaters and is a key problem, so the recommendation is not binding, which is commendable to be 100%. Free shipping to line ships, however, what about private boaters is a key issue. I also think this is suggested by the Proposer that there are much better solutions than the regulation and other solutions. So here there's a simple misunderstanding in solving this problem that's at this point just refers to island children, but if they solve it, it's a big problem. So, all this change of law, it's less than 15 million kunas in total, let the listeners know. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146914	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146915	I agree with you, colleague Bulj, so what Mr. Butkovic said is also a partial solution, so we'll see in the application itself, so how it's going to happen, so we have a legal solution that the government can even consider and even better fix, but it's important to bring these people a solution. So they're looking for a solution, they don't care if they bring HDZ, SDP, MOST or government, it's important to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146916	Thank you very much. The next individual debate will be the newly respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146917	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Respected by the legislator of this law, the respected Minister Butkovic, so I will briefly try to recapture something that we said this afternoon, and so that we do not cause any anger or doubt in persons with disabilities, and on the proposal of this law from the respected colleague Arsen Bauk, who was sent before the end of 2018 to the parliamentary procedure, and today is actually on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what it is concerning Mr Bauk, the time in which we are talking today about this bill, I will remind them when they were in power in 4 years, we have no proposal for law, there was one interpretation about the Peljeka Bridge that we have not even welcomed the end of the term to be on the agenda. So, with regard to this hypocrisy, I was obliged to say this. What is related to this law, therefore, where I propose that certain changes happen at the initiative of the Red Cross City Society from Brač, as well as the Bračka Pupoli association, should happen in relation to this law on the transport of linear and occasional coastal maritime transport, is talked about persons with disabilities, therefore children with development, developmental difficulties as well as voluntary blood donors. So, voluntary blood donors here say men who gave 36 times blood and women 25 times. I don't know why that number, why this criterion, why it's not 50 or why it's not 20, I've given it 22 times I couldn't possibly use it and some colleagues here from us who have given far more blood than I have personally. So, in this bill of law, the Bračka Pupoli and the Red Cross City Society have spoken to Mr. Bauk, but I personally don't know if anyone here has received this memo, we haven't received it. And I think it's right that my colleague Bauk did this, but not that he let this go into the parliamentary procedure, but he might have been able to talk to a resolution minister who gave some clarifications today, and he said that today in Jadrolinia, so all persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, as well as their assistants, as they say, followers and vehicles have a 90% discount, and I'm convinced that the Brač municipalities and the Supetar city themselves are co-financed in that part because I know that they are broad-minded about these categories of people, we're talking about people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties. So I'm convinced that's how it is. It is incorrect because of this very proposal of the law that Mr Arsen Bauk has also made a conclusion regarding this law that unless it is adopted as such by a regulation, with a legal force within 15 days. My colleague Lukacic, if you followed her, actually said everything so that I wouldn't repeat myself about the definition of people with disabilities and the way this law would be passed. I said it was discriminatory, and I tried to warn my fellow MPs not to approach this subject, I will not just say populist, not because of certain political problems, but because the public should know that in RH 508 734 people with disabilities, so they do not only live on islands, but they live in rural parts of the Republic, especially in our Slavonia, Baranja, I don't know the Dalmatian Zagora, the Imotski region, Sinjska etc., so they all have almost the same needs. This part, which Mr. Bauk spoke of for children with developmental difficulties, mainly refers to logos, refers to defecologists and psychologists, with both the Ministry of Demography and family and youth and social policy signing certain agreements with associations that exist on Brač and Hvar and which provide such services. I will show you a good example of the Association of Persons with Disabilities from the City of Imotski who have recognized this problem and having seen the inability of HZZO to solve this problem, they have taken on the obligation to actually provide a service of defectology, logos and psychologists themselves and they have actually hired these defectologists, logos and psychologists through the association and saved the state, it seems to me on an annual level, 16 million kuna, and in fact these services are not only used by children in the area of the Imot region, but also from Vrgorec, or through the border of the Posušje, Gruda, therefore from BiH, which is very important, so if they want to solve things in the right way. So I repeat, this 90% that Jadrolini gives, and now the minister has said in 100% amount, I don't think there was any need to talk about this law at all, but with caution I'm talking about people with disabilities because we don't do discrimination because what people with disabilities in the area of Vukovar, Plekernica, Slavonski Brod, Sisak or some other remote places, the rural ones who use such services in the city where they also have to pay for their transportation, Mr. Bauk will say that it is a liner ship transport that is actually treated as a city, I agree that they may be in a more difficult situation children from Brač or from other islands, but I'm also sure that the local community is helping them. On the other hand, I want to remind you of some of the things that are very much related to Mr. Bauk because he's the promoter, so I especially apostrophe him in this debate, so even when they were in power then, if you remember the first protest was a protest of parents with children with problems in development and misunderstanding, as well as letters that referred to the Government not wanting to solve their problems precisely in these things that I'm talking about right now. I'll also remind the Act of Inclusive Adjectives who were speaking at the time, but never worked on it. Family law, which also then made a big mess for people with disabilities, as well as for children with developmental difficulties. I will remind myself of some of the things that happened at the time because then the Family Law was suspended, discriminating the provisions that favoured certain associations of persons with disabilities at the expense of other Vinko Beka, the abolition of, say, Nazrova here in Zagreb, and in a special way, by mentioning the deinstitutionalisation programme that I talked about several times here in HS and I said that it was deeply unfair and it was then prepared when children, persons with disabilities must come out of specialised homes, and we allowed certain individuals and associations to actually earn money on it, and they did not provide them with an adequate service all for the purpose of some socialization of persons with disabilities, which certainly, as such, was not good. So there were possibilities, but the SDP government didn't do it. On the other hand, the roof institution in the Republic of Croatia is not against this law, nor are they against the content of this law, but they have opposed it and have said that this problem, to be very careful that it is fully resolved as such. So both the Committees and the Committee on Health and the Committee on Transport were also against this solution, or the proposal for a solution by Mr Arsen Bauk. When we talk about the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I know at the very beginning, and through the very national plan and programme of activities, normative activities, we have been working on the Law on an inclusive supplement, on the Household Act, the Law on Personal Assistance, here is an increased allowance for assistance and care, so after 20 years. Personal disability increased, so 20 years. It was supposed to increase as such. I agree, my colleague, Beus Richembergh, was gone, and it was my intensity while I was in the ministry that, uh, social affairs should be dealt with in a completely different way than the local self-government units on the principle of subsidiarity to the top of the state that should lead one strategy, I was thinking about a social care institution that was a core business of that kind, and we would have a lot of, we would have handled a lot of things with that kind of thing. So, I'm deeply convinced that our society is deeply social. You said for individuals who supported this, individuals don't always know certain things, and it's a shame that in this way things are raped just because some people who are prominent supported by some law, so it has to be passed as such. So, it can't be an intensity and it can't be a practice and I'm against such practice I still believe the profession. I believe that by amending and supplementing the law, what Mr. Minister has said will do anything to make this Law on Lineway Transport and the occasional coastal transport as well as through a rule that is very important as an implementing act with the help of people with disabilities, and by doing so I am sure that I am members of the Bračka Pupolje association. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146918	We have, we have two replicas. He is the first respected representative of Klaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146919	Dear counterpart Babic, you said hypocritically by the SDP, I think it would be best if the SDP had said after what the minister said today whether to withdraw this bill. So, if she's going into law-making procedures, if there are these 90 percent benefits, if it's negotiated with all groups of people, if it's considered extending the law to other disability groups, then I don't know what this debate is about. So this was agreed by Mrs. Lukačić, our colleague, Mrs. Lukacic, who is just the representative of that population. So, I think it would be best if we agreed now, if this debate were to end in this way, to leave the government of space to by the 10th month that the minister had announced that the whole bill had been passed, that we would all unanimously adopt it, because I think that every further on this subject really doesn't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146920	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146921	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I fully or fully agree with you, colleague Klaric, this is what Mr. Bauk should have taken care of before and this should not have come into the parliamentary procedure in order not to see certain differences, but speaking of which, then we have to say it. Imagine how a person with a disability or a child's parent is feeling, with developmental difficulties which, you heard from the Minister 90% salary Jadrolini transport to persons with disabilities, assistant and vehicle. According to this logic, for example, a person with disabilities or a child with developmental difficulties in the area of Imotska krajina should have a free ENC, should be considered an assistant or a disabled person on the highway. So we're opening up a box of Pandoras that needs to get rid of them. I think the last word here was to be given by the Ministry of Demography, Family, Youth and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146922	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I agree with everything you said in yours. However, I think it is necessary to point out once again that this solution is exactly how it will be proposed by the government and by tomorrow's conclusion will be a complete solution. Exactly because it's consistent with people with disabilities, and if they need it for shades, we may not know it, they will say it themselves because they will have a month's proposal for a law on public consultation where they will be able to say whether they agree with this or have something else to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146924	The answer of the respected representative Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146925	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I have no doubt that there are problems at all, I said if there were more resources we would better solve the problem of people with disabilities and a number of other things that are related to them than not only that but I have helped, teaching itself, assistance in teaching, transportation, all that people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties need. But I am a proponent of the profession, so I am a supporter of the professions of roof institutions who know the problem, live with it every day and therefore should wait for the final proposal of the Government or wait for the procedure in the Croatian Parliament to adopt only these amendments and the addition of the laws relating to line transport. So now we're talking about a liner transport related to people with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties, but here a matter of voluntary blood donors has been raised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146926	Thank you. The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go. And I'm sorry, my colleagues, but I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146927	Thank you very much. This legislative proposal I expected the minister to ask for a word because at any moment before the government, as the representative here can ask for a word and finally change that opinion and that the opinion of the government that was negative about this proposal and I consider here listening to his colleagues from the HDZ here, the gentleman earlier spoke about the situation in the region of Sinj, what is the situation, that, very difficult on the matter of health services, social services, you have seen how the competitions are intended to ask the prime minister where the porter is, but we will not talk about it, you are aware that health services have been destroyed in Dalmatia, that the county destroyed it, probably by the islands, down in our county. But here's another topic, here we're talking exclusively about what our citizens have warned us about, and it's about children on islands that are primarily, so children with developmental difficulties and that they would mean, that they could achieve their best possible development and that social, social inclusion of these children, it's very important to pass this law. If he is going to be this law, will the minister come out and say no, I will give the conclusion, counterpart Bacic, Babić, in conclusion he says 100% will be free of charge. Who's the recommendation? I'm interested in the minister saying if it's a recommendation and a private ship, it's a recommendation. If they have the obligation to respect that recommendation as private shipmen who have concessions on certain lines, I don't know exactly what that number is outside of Jadrolinia, as far as it's concerned. So this is a recommendation, a recommendation we like, we can make recommendations and conclusions as well as we as Parliament. There are executive means of decisions like the regulations that can solve this problem, so they, by the regulation of the sea, are made by the government, and the law makes the whole thing that you're saying to your HDZ colleagues and you're still trying to throw in a story about what happened 10 years ago, what the Bračka Pupoli said, what they're saying now. The fact is that this law proposed changes that are not for the state is a big problem and that's what the minister said himself, the minister pointed out that this is not about the amount, this is about the whole, the law as he said whole when he said, of 15 million kuna, 15 million kuna. And speaking here about this law, I expected the ministers, I call on him once again to come out, to rise from these trench battles around this law, to rise from the toad of politicalism, and to show that its breadth to children, if anyone was critical of Minister Oleg Butkovic, it was me, and this time on behalf of these children once again as a representative, I ask him to come out to meet these children, their families, their companions and those who are with them and who want to socially involve himself as much as possible in life as possible. I think this is a social obligation, this is a social obligation, here I see once again the minister is there in conversation, I pray that he rises from these trench battles that HDZ has taken, I criticized him for numerous promises, because of the roads he has promised in Split from Križica to Kukuzovaca compound, from Zadvorje which are here when the elections are seen that all are coming, Imotski splint, the Račva-Drvenik tunnel, numerous projects, here the Volčevica here is the only thing that has been done has been closed at night for Vukevic, so here I'm asking him to rise up, to work his heart towards those children, to the real ones that are called here and counting now in the Red Cross he gave well in the proposal of what with 35 blood to men and 25 women, and I think it's so much that he's pointless, so much as he's wronged in health care, that you's the problem that you've been in the hospital, and that you've been in health care, and that you've been in health care, you've been in the problem. But this is a question where you try to essentially say tomorrow the government will reach a conclusion 100% of the recommendations, what a recommendation, not binding, the recommendation of Miro Bulj makes all of these people drive free, that's right, about privates so much. Recommend the government, so stop who's gonna cover the private shipping costs? Well, that's so unserious, come on, please get serious Minister, leave that phone, this is about kids, this is about kids. Your recommendation is not binding, you ministers can make a regulation, regulation or accept this law or do something here, make a proposaler and colleague Bauk has agreed to anything just to get rid of this right now, but it's much more important the Minister will be called by the Pentagon than the children in Brač, the islands. So, the minister here is driven by the logic that these kids are a problem, he wouldn't give anything but a recommendation, so we won't pay, just a recommendation to those boaters private to their souls if the government didn't give a recommendation, and that's that, but it's not binding, it's not binding for all those who are users, who expect to be users of this bill on free transportation and those who are not only children with difficulties, but also those escorts, and therefore I'm surprised by the trenches, the trenches of HDZ. So, the minister sailed his speech section, everything he did, although this legislative proposal was made on the 11th month, so in the 3rd month, he was on the board that the parent board refused, there was also the chairman of the board, and now they remember today that tomorrow they will give a recommendation, not a conclusion, must know people who, meaning interested in our public, must know that the conclusion that the government will give tomorrow, sign the Prime Minister, that it is not binding, which means the government is offering nothing to the shipmen, mainly private, I don't know how it is settled with Jadrolini, offers nothing, and ask for everything from all the shipmen. If these shipmen can submit financially, or I can't, I don't know, nor will I go in, that the minister would have to see with private shipmen if they will agree to that recommendation here, the regulation must be passed here and then move on to legal change, but give up this way, in this way that tomorrow will reach the conclusion with the recommendation to the shipowners is, so I don't know whether it's going to feel free, but it's only a recommendation, but it's a colleague, here's a free colleague Babić, you can replicate it because you've stressed a few times 90, it's not 90 but 100% free anymore, but it's a recommendation, it's not a binding act to anyone, nor a commitment, here's a minister of the sea to confirm, it's binding to private boaters, not a tribba here we open up here, but we could even solve this much sooner at the very beginning when the promote was making his views. This is very easy to resolve at this point, I'm surprised, of course, to those who are from the island, who simply don't hear the voice of those children, but let's not propose to the SDP, here, it doesn't matter, it's not a proposer to the SDP, so feel free to suggest this or do it in a way that we can do business, let's call the Government. Or colleague Boric or colleague, may one of you be freely proposing this, I will raise my hand and club MOST. And we've solved the problem at this point, and in conclusion, the recommendation is no solution, it's just a recommendation. Di doesn't have financial expenses, there's just nothing. Here, once again, I urge you to ask for a break, Minister, is it your club to request a break, to sit down with the motionary and try to find a solution that will be the most optimal at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146928	Thank you. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146929	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. Here, we heard some debates. One good conclusion, says Miro today, colleague, of tomorrow 100% for free, so that would be some kind of taste for this debate. 100% free, so this, maybe this debate shouldn't go into this either, but if it is or if it's free, we did, this government did, and this minister has a mission to carry out both the conclusion and to implement and the future law when Parliament adopts it. I volunteered to talk about this law because I have something to say since I have experience in this space and I know what we've been doing all we can, we can say that the islands and the islanders have always had a positive policy, and that's why we've been surprised by this one initiative that nobody knew anything about except Mr. Bauk, and we've only learned after all because I've asked all the other colleagues, whether one of us might have received an e-mail with a bill of legal changes, no one has received, nor has a colleague of Lukacic who's always, always, there's no law that she doesn't look at as a person with disabilities without giving her opinion on the same thing. And she's done a lot in this mandate for people with disabilities to exercise their rights and even more rights than they've ever had before. About the island policy of this government is the prime minister himself of origin, where there are many islands, where we have a situation that we have passed the Island Law after, I don't know, 12 years of a whole new law in two readings. If we had returned what our colleague, Bauk, had abolished, the Department of the Islands. Canceled as a general system or composition of a particular ministry or just within a particular ministry that has always been tasked with taking care of island politics since 2000, so that we don't have these possible things happening to us. They shut it down, we brought it back. The government supported the first session on one island after a long, long time, last year at the end of the year on the island of Hvar. Where we presented a whole series of measures that should contribute to the fact that the islanders have an even greater level of rights and that they have achieved all that they had before. And to say now that nothing has been done so far for people with disabilities, it is not true because, after 2000, the law, which did not recognise in both road and sea transport persons with disabilities, was first recognized by the law of 2006 by persons with disabilities in road transport. Then based on the Law on Privileges of Internal Passenger Transport where we have provided means that in road transport to each person, the person is transported free of charge and that they have a certain level of return of funds if they show a certain cost. We have changed many provisions when it comes to the Island Law and say that there is no government to worry about islands is not true. And this story, I don't know how she ended up just with her colleagues, because he's from the island of Brač, I can assume this whole media in some way, I'm going to call, the presentation of this whole problem is today, we don't have that kind of interest anymore, and until recently we're some colleagues here, really badly perceived because they dared to say that what they offered through this bill isn't entirely. It does not solve the problem until the end and that the problem will arise again at some point, if it were to be adopted as proposed by counterpart Bauk. That there's going to be a problem, which he knows how to show up anyway. Because everyone's looking for a piece of their own today, and when they get somewhere and they tell him someone and no, you're wrong, so what are we gonna say? One colleague or person with disabilities can, the other can't. So you're looking at it completely, and this whole story is just trying to offend everything that's happened so far when it comes to politics towards the islands. At least, and from this minister, when we talk about transportation, sea transport. New catamaran, new ferry, ports, attitude to the entire maritime transport area, road transport, island law, free road transport for all categories, means students, students, pensioners, health workers, etc., means there is a certain category of benefits that only have on islands, are not on the second part, in the continental part of the Republic. And of course, when a certain right is exercised, it is forgotten that it is happening anyway and already... in other situations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's why this story, which I say, in the House has always been in some way unanimous, the support of island politics has always been more or less unanimous. So does counterpart Bauk, and now suddenly he appears to be practically gone even though, we've heard, for 10 years, there's been some kind of initiative. And I didn't know about that. And he says he didn't know. So someone here might not be telling the truth after all. I will not say that it is not, but we see, if he was the Minister in 2014 and 13 when the Public Line Coastal Transport Act changed, such an initiative could not go past him because then the basic part of that law was the introduction of that famous island card. Against which we both thought he and I had some problems, but it came to life and let it work. So I don't understand how when people with disabilities, when they have an island card, as a child up to 18, they don't have the right to free transportation, and I think they do. Which was the problem then, so we have a certain level of disagreement between some regulations. So we have an island law that is now in art. 31. In Article 2. assumes or orders the competent minister to introduce free transport for persons with disabilities and their escort. Orders. And it happens through the Law on Public Line coastal occasional transport and it will be. But, of course, it probably took a certain amount of politicization to get someone to tell themselves, I say, here we are, finally, but while he was a minister, that wasn't the problem. And then there was probably some other associations and maybe some initiatives, but we didn't know about them. I personally didn't know about... And now we have the situation we have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From tomorrow, 100% means either free transport for disabled persons on the lines that cover the means ferry transport, I think it's also a high-speed transport. It's not? Just a ferry ride, so from the island to the mainland and vice versa, and I think we just need to find a way then because maybe somewhere it won't be possible in that way, maybe you'll want a speedboat line. And that's what you need to see. So maybe there's more room to be in counseling. Which is a normal path, not like this, I put a final proposal on you, you have to accept whether you are against such persons or a normal path to through public consultation, what counterpart Lukacic said and they have a chance to say what they think about an article of the law and to install it to the satisfaction of people who have disabilities that can function normally and that the state has a certain cost to do so. That's why I'm surprised to hear this debate from my colleague Bulja. That the recommendation isn't enough. So we have the data, Jadrolinija, last year, 1589 car tickets, 3043 tickets for persons, the total amount of 298 thousand kuna values, of which discount 267, means 30 thousand kuna paid. Of all the boaters, the ferrys, we only have two. We've got Jadrolini and we've got Rape sailing. Rape sailing will be doing this and I think they're already doing it without this law because they've always had a sense of what's important because our island boater and I can really only say praises with them because they did it and when there wasn't, I don't know, the vehicles that have a rotter, mean they have free transportation for them and for all those who need it both for the firemen and the police, etc., etc. They were always worried that it was our island, so only two boaters would be able to apply this, and hopefully then we'll solve the issue of fast-ship traffic and it'll be able to get in then and a person with disabilities and there might be some questions. So let's do it right, let's not force it like this so just go ahead and take it or leave it, but let's do it as fully as this government has set out to do. Tomorrow's decision or the government's conclusion will certainly apply, colleague Bulj, and you can't say that it has no power because it's already been done since last year, as the minister said, when he recommended that Jadrolini do so. So in this whole story, we need to figure out what it is and what it's worth from what might be under some kind of politics. I remember the Law on concessions and everything you had for us back then also with some associations from the island. No one sold a single beach, no one alienated any maritime good, and you were here in public hanging many MPs who raised their hands for that law, on which nothing happened the way you said and how you predicted. The same situation is with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146930	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. The first one's a respected representative of Lukacic's, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146931	Thank you. Comrade Boric, you have well mentioned the Law on Islands which regulates, equally the right to transport, road transport on the island. What I'm saying is that here, just these days, there's been a public consultation on a regulation that regulates the island road transport which, behold, had a 30-day chance... with the disability to say which persons with disabilities should be entitled to free road transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Same here. Back-application like this without people with disabilities, I would agree that it is because one or two associations are not persons with disabilities at the level of the whole state, so it was not different than it was possible for everyone and within the framework of a working group that does the law and in the framework of public consultation to opportunity them to say what they think, who should have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146932	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146933	Thank you very much. I hope that through this debate, my colleague Lukacic has made it clear that we care and that we want to solve it and that this government, not only solve this problem, but everything they have left us, everything, and now they forget, my first colleague, Bauk. They forgot everything. They forgot that they were ministers, what they were doing, how they were acting, what decisions and laws they were making, and of course, today, we're going public and we're saying what's right for us. We can understand everything in the policy world, but this government is going to solve it and it has shown that it knows how to solve it, and the law is to be passed without public debate, certainly with everything you've said and the participation of the associations that need to say what it needs to be, to finally get rid of everyone's satisfaction.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146934	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146935	Thank you, Vice President, dear colleague Boric, we are looking for a solution to this situation. Since the beginning of this debate, no one has politicized except for counterpart Lukacic who held one departure here, praises the Prime Minister that he has a heart for the needy, it has been so moving to listen to you who have begun to accuse other MPs, other political options because of what has happened or has not happened. I think my colleague Bauk initially said that they had committed certain errors and mistakes and that we went all the way through this debate towards solving the problem but don't ask you about concessions, we know what you were doing about the Golden War, don't ask you about land change, don't talk about GUPs, you'd better not answer those questions and those topics, that when you type those keywords, you'd best put in something to block you and not say anything about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146936	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146937	Thank you very much. If it seems credible to me what you're saying, I was listening to your statement the other night, says you can't use state resources for personal gain, right, and then one of your colleagues is using a privileged state credit to get yourself... Everyone, of course. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And officials, that's right. So in that, everyone or some of you, talk about it any way you want, it doesn't matter to me at this point. So we're talking about this law that the government has prepared has its own procedure and that it's good that in public consultation we hear everyone without listening to this story I say, which recently has been going towards a person who is a person with disabilities and who is trying here in some way offensive in her efforts to do what she thinks is best together with all of her colleagues who represent certain associations and it's not correct of you, it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146938	Thank you very much. The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative of the Grmoi, which article was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146939	Article 238 was injured, so fellow Boric accused us of being parliamentary representatives that we are what we are according to counterpart Lukacic. If my colleague Lukacic is a person with disabilities, I respect her as much as any person and any representative in this House and if she says something that doesn't stand, then she'll get that answer. So I respect my colleague Lukacic, but the fact that she's a disabled person doesn't go through with the fact that she said something that doesn't stand It doesn't matter because it's like we're attacking. [[/Intruder Reiner: What does this have to do with the article?]] My colleague Lukacic, who is a disabled person, has nothing to do with it. [[It has nothing to do with that.]] It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146940	It doesn't matter, you've exceeded your time, I'm giving you a warning because you're abusing the Rules of Procedure's breach. All right, let's move on to the finals on behalf of the MPs' club, first of all, the HDZ club representative will speak to the respected representative Ljubica Lukačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's a few more words I'd say about this debate and this law, I hope we've managed not to defend ourselves, don't put it on our backs to defend ourselves because unlike many, we're doing a very serious and difficult job. I would say you just don't need a colleague of Grumoja in this Croatian Assembly towards me, and I'm glad you said that you have the same attitude, that's exactly what I said in my debate, that I expect people with disabilities to have no pity, I felt a little bit of it here today, not to myself, but in general. It's good to say that he has the same attitude towards me, so like I said, I expect that, but I didn't say anything wrong. I'm sorry that some colleagues went out when I spoke on behalf of the club so they didn't hear the real debate in this law but I had to say who had sensitivity because the populist politics of people with disabilities never liked it and don't spend today either. I'm extremely sorry, but I have to tell you, I hope that I believe that the conclusion that the government will make tomorrow will certainly equal opportunities for people with disabilities. Therefore, all persons with disabilities and children with developmental difficulties in the entire Republic of Croatia, those who will be listed in the conclusion and in the recommendation, will be entitled to free transport. Those with disabilities themselves agreed to have the right. So they and not what you're gonna say should have those kids, what kids? Do not use the term after which you cannot stop. Please, we're talking about terminology, we need to know which people with disabilities, we can't all be entitled to everything. Yeah, for example. I have no right to a personal assistant. But our attorney that you all know, which is why I'm mentioning her, she should certainly have the right to a personal assistant. So, by his disability, or by the weight of disability, and not what Beus said, by the way he was made, I know that while he was thinking about Croatian defenders, but respected gentlemen, all the countries in Europe protect their defenders very well because many have given their health to the state as well as we of our Croatian defenders because if it were not for them, we would not be discussing people with disabilities here today. We disabled persons may have had some discussion at some point, but here we have come to the Included Supplement Act, to go on a couple of rights mergers. You let us go, we'll make a deal. I'm not saying that you don't know, but surely you can't have that sense of disability as we do because we live with it every day but if you want to help us, just listen to us. I believe here, as I said, that this recommendation and ultimately the law that I expect disabled people in public consultation to really make their proposals and then, if necessary, change something from this recommendation, I doubt that everyone will be actively involved and will be driving for free, just as it says in the recommendation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146942	Thank you. The next final word on behalf of the Representatives' Club will be the MOST of Independent Lists on behalf of the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146943	Thank you very much. As counterpart Lukacic said that Croatian defenders should always be thanked and I hope as other countries, I hope that they will never, ever arrest, locate, transfer, such as the Croatian defenders that I do not repeat, that it will never happen again, but it is not a topic. I wanted to talk here, let my colleague Boris and Grmoja finish because I can't, I wanted to talk here about what my colleague Boric is all about. I expected Minister Butkovic to come out here and give some solution besides that conclusion, and that conclusion was that it would be 100% recommended, that for 100% it meant benefits. Free and 100% free colleague Boris said this in your colleague Babic in the previous year so I quoted him about 100% free of charge so that he would mention that it went here on purpose to politicize, which is a colleague of Boris, I know that he has a replacement mandate, that he did not get it, that he did not get it right and that he has to speak so well, to mention concession and we know, we will not mention the Golden War and concession law and what happened, we will not mention who the waters went to as a concession right without public procurement that they went to foreign hands as Jamnica and other sources, but therefore there are legal solutions, there we will try. But, Minister Butkovic, at first I said that I often criticized you because when you come down, you always bring us a full bag of promises, a bag full of promises, but it's always hollow, obviously that simple patches don't hold, you promised a lot of these projects, in the parts where I come from, Dalmatia, the Dalmatian Zagora, at a meeting of the government that you didn't meet. Again, you will come to the pre-election time, no problem, it will be eaten by prosciutto as well as lambs, but here it is most important for me to praise you, I will praise you always so accept this, come out, say yes, the regulation will be, the government will bring it, no recommendations, no private shipmen, but recommendations to think, recommendations. Well, here's the solution. Here's the bogeyman's proposal. Well, it doesn't matter what a colleague named Bauk gave. If he gave, if people, associations deal with this, so he's not the only Jelena Velača who writes criteria to the prime minister who, as an association, is the only one who's autochton, I know that you're in good relations and that world-class is the same as the lady. It is okay to respect the world's principles and your prime minister and respect Jelena Velac in all rights, however, there are other associations that are rebelling, so the reality of seeing these islands, ministers, come out here, rise up behind the replacement parliamentary representatives who have to speak praises about the minister, about the prime minister, I know that the colleague Lukačić is prime minister, the place of prime minister, I know and you have to do it and I'm ok with what you have to call the Prime Minister but he is not Mao Zedong, I don't think that the minister can do this, that he can be raised from this political and connotation but simply turn to our children and it's embarrassing what you have to call twice a maritime committee that is not accepted, your committee from your ministry, you have to rise from this political and your health board of health, your colleague Linić to address you in public opinion, but you are not easily aware of the public opinion, but you are not easy enough, but you have to speak of the need to speak of the need to speak, and the need to speak of the need to speak of the public, and you can be aware of the opinion of the public. If you pay attention to discussion and politicisation, what your colleague Babić said 100% equally for free, that is 100% equal to free, but it is a recommendation, it is a recommendation, private shipmen, I will not enter who is a private shipowner, what Jadrolini does, in which way it works, bring what is up to the whole law bring the regulation and that is the solution, thank you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146944	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the government, the respected Minister Oleg Butkovic, the minister of the sea, transport and infrastructure will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146945	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, my fellow Parliamentarians and MPs. Here is the final point as regards this bill, as I said in the opening act, the law goes into public consultation, it is over, it is in line with all the associations, with all the needs of the organizations that deal most with and point to the problem of disabled people, last year in April of the month while I passed this recommendation that was applied neatly, I have brought it as a minister and tomorrow it will be the same recommendation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia whose strength is stronger and stronger than it was recommended by the Minister of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, and there are two, one is Jadrolini of Shipowners and the other is the Rape Navigation, and there is no problem in not to apply it. Now it's just that you accept or do not accept but what I have to say here is that this problem will be solved by law-making, it goes to the government tomorrow, and that thing is about us being clean. The law introduces new categories, introduces persons with disabilities where physical damage to the lower extremity is determined by 80% or above, Croatian wartime military disableds etc., etc. and, of course, children with developmental difficulties III. and IV. the degree of disability, this applies not only to them but also to escorts and vehicles. I believe that in the adoption and debate over this law that will be in the government in September, after that in the Croatian Parliament, there will be a consensus as it has become today that we can still resolve this issue together because I think it is what my colleague Bulj says, that we must rise above politicisation and the fact that someone from the SDP or HDZ suggested it. I repeat, President Bauk's proposal, no one is against him and no one has said that we voted on the board or in the government because this came from the SDP, but this issue is being resolved in a whole, broader and more concrete manner in accordance with the needs of the people who proposed it. As for other things and projects in Split-Dalmatia County, you already see this often mentioned, all the conclusions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Split that have been made are implemented, on Saturday will be opened... Just a little bit, on Saturday, there will be an opening, I was listening to you when you were saying, on Saturday is the opening of Split Airport, the project of a total value of 500 million kuna, so I invite you to come to the opening, so I invite you, it's one of the biggest infrastructure projects that will be opened on Saturday and we soon sign a contract for that part of Omis, the new road 200 million kuna, of course all according to the decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and I'm proud that we have launched an investment cycle of 200 billion kuna in transport, that is so much today, I as a minister am really proud of the companies that carry it out because these are all major infrastructure projects financed by European funds, we are now at over 90% of contracted funds and over 90% in the OPC and CEF, so that this is the result, there is no county, there is no end in Croatia where large infrastructure projects are not being implemented. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Thank you very much, and I invite you to Split on Saturday and my colleague, Bauk, tomorrow after the government's conclusion, I expect you to shave, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146946	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146947	I apologize, only this part of the conclusion that you have suggested that this issue is regulated by the adoption of a regulation with a legal force within 15 days is rejected because tomorrow it will be settled, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146948	My colleague Miro Bulj has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure, which point of the Rules of Procedure has been injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146949	So here's me at the minister's exhibit. 238, point of the Rules of Procedure [[/Intruder Reiner: Which point of the Rules of Procedure is injured?]] Minister, get rid of the pay cleaners... [[/Intruder Reiner: In what?]] Shame on you! [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can be yourself, you know you've replicated three times.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146950	And now abuse the conscious institution of damage to the Rules of Procedure to replicate the minister I'm not yelling at all, I'm telling you [[/Invader Bull: Who are you yelling at, why are you yelling?]] That's incorrect of you. [[You're a little nervous.]] You'll be fine when you sit down, you get a warning. [[Calm down, just a little bit, everything's gonna be okay.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146951	Don't be afraid, don't be afraid, it's not a matter of warning. Mostly, I hope that the Minister's cleaning lady will be... The speaker doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146952	Please sit down. On behalf of the promoter, he will now speak to the esteemed representative Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to refer to some allegations in the debate... /Intruder Reiner: Please don't yell from now, colleague Bulj./ [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Earlier on, it seems to me that MP Klaric, who mentioned the possibility of withdrawing the bill, and I must say that at any point in time, if the Association of the Bračka Pupoli or the Red Cross asks me to withdraw the law, that I will do so even though it is now businessly possible after the debate but there are no problems, and also if, after the conclusion of the Government, the same stakeholders, so the Red Cross and the Association of the Brački Pupoli, say that their problem has been solved, as Mr Butkovic said, the beard will be removed before that. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] [[Intruder Reiner: Here you are, colleague Bauk uninterrupted to speak.]] As far as specific things are concerned, we're going in a row. Mr. Babic asked about voluntary blood donors, yes, that proposal was in that initiative, which is the basis for making this law, and I asked the Red Cross if it was the custom for men and women to be different numbers of giving, and that's the number that's otherwise taken as a standard, they said that I hadn't further explored. Also, they did not turn to me to make the law, but I addressed them when I saw that an initiative came from the association and the Red Cross, and when I saw that it was supported by all the leaders of the local self-government units, I asked them if I could refer them to the bill's procedure, they said yes. And then I instructed him, and I didn't make it public, so it was by referring to the procedure, including the agenda, the government's obvious, so there was no daily-political action about it at that point, but it was actually understood as another contribution to the debate and the desire to get rid of it as soon as possible. In the end, at least the government has to show itself about it, what it has done within a month, so the committees have to show themselves about it. And each of these steps in lawmaking had its own certain public echo, and after every step, that echo was bigger because my impression was and that's for sure, so after time, the government's arguments that they would solve something, become weaker, and the arguments that it had to be solved as soon as possible, become stronger and really as time went by, it happened and I don't know where the surprise came from. This did not take too much political experience to predict. The proposal that local self-government units finance this, which can be heard on some committees, and from the point of view of the statement that it costs 15 million kuna a year now seems disproportionate to me. This proposal may have been about 500, 300 to 500 parents and escorts and children on islands, and at that point it wasn't an ambition to go into the wider, I don't mind having the government solve it wider but for first reading the law, to address the problem, this is quite enough. So I don't agree that at this stage it's neither incomplete nor discriminatory, the law is not exactly the way it was supposed to be discussed in the first reading and the law is exactly what it was supposed to be to encourage the government to solve the problem. So I am fully aware that without the government's support and at least the works of the parliamentary majority, no law can be passed. So is this one. So what Mr. Grumoja told me is that I am too peaceful, logically it's too peaceful because taking a step or two too much is becoming counterproductive because then not only the legislator but also the associations and all those involved can get the impression that they were manipulated, politicized, etc. So, I've seen in the debates in the announcements of the Bračka Pupoli Association that speak of the law, no mention of my name as a proposing, and I'm glad. There was no need for that at all. It's not in the media either, in most cases it wasn't mentioned. As for the SDP of the government and the work that Mr Babic, paradoxically, referred most to Mrs. Opačić, here she is no longer with us, now she is in a club that is part of the ruling majority so let the debates in the ruling majority. As far as Mrs. Devereaux's allegations are concerned, Lukačić, so can I quote something that is said, don't enter into the life of people with disabilities because they know best about it, it's like I say don't get you into what the islanders are going through because we know best, so Mr. Boric can, so it's quite certain that understanding of people with disabilities is far greater because it's about them but it's worth it for all, so it's worth it to the islanders that you don't get in from the mainland, don't you other people for teachers, don't you who aren't in schools, so, etc. So they can all say that but so this is a proposal that has just come from one of these associations and concerned the problem that was most important to them at that moment and it is quite certain that it is much easier to solve a small segment than to go catch a broad or too wide part. Time goes by, I'm not going in favor of the arguments that this can be fully and broadly solved, despite these recommendations and conclusions are exactly what the government has said, as reasons why it does not accept this law. So we're not going to pass the law because we're going to solve it completely and then we're solving a conclusion that's a kind of improvisation, but if it solves the problem, there's no problem. So, right away, I believe that this conclusion will also be analysed by the representatives of the Bračka Pupoli Association and that if that is the solution, then there will be no further discussion in the public. As for what Mr. Boric and the island administration are, we have to admit that I can't counter you here at all because I agree with you. I don't think it was something crucial, but at a symbolic level, it would be better if there was an island administration and an island assistant, if you remember in one of those discussions because this isn't the first time you've mentioned it to me, I said that I would like this island administration to be within the Ministry of the Sea because somehow I have more trust in the Ministry of the Sea than in the Ministry of Regional Development. ... No, it was in that law on formation and the detour of ministries at the very beginning, I wasn't a minister yet, I was a representative. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] As for the actions of the impression let's be very open, what an impression it can be when the only thing you accept is the conclusion that this bill is not accepted. So, what an impression it can be than that you are against the law since it is the first reading or you are representatives of Lukačić or the HDZ Club. Suggest some conclusion from which your support for the law's intensity will be seen, which will show the desire for the government to solve it or it will be an impression very much, it doesn't need to be a doctor of science at all to conclude. We'll have a display on Friday, one side red, one side green. One side will be for the law, one side will be against the law. And there's no excuse for defense to justify that you're not against the law if you vote against the law. If there is a conclusion that will clearly show the will of the parliamentarians that this is good and that the government is obliged to deal with it and if everything is green, it will not... I don't know if you need me to draw that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that's not my problem, that's your problem. My problem would be if I were right in the 12th month. Ultimatively sought, attacked the government. My problem would have been if I'd done it in the third month. And even at 5, but now before the summer break, when we know that two months. No Parliament, that's no longer my problem, that's your problem. And I don't want to help you with that. I can help you suggest that the government solve the regulation, that the second reading suggests or the Government of the Health Committee in which your coalition also has a majority, I can suggest a conclusion that would be a political position that is good, but if you will for the fourth time and not on the board but in a plenary session in front of the cameras, vote that you do not accept, if Friday's vote comes, I cannot defend you against the impression, I don't know what would. Now, as far as consulting an interested public is concerned, if the government says in the first month that it will not be fully resolved until the 7th month. says he will advise the interested public that he will be in the 9th month. The law given to the Government and in the 10th Parliament, it turns out that for a solution requiring an amendment to one article of the law that is not disputed to anyone, all procedures should be implemented and that one 4 times less time should have been adopted by this Lex Agrokor. Come on, defend yourself like that. Any opposition would wish for such a ruling majority. I have to say something about these conclusions and recommendations. If I followed correctly, as it is said, by the timeline, 90% came when the law was rejected on the Transport Committee. Then it's 100% when the law was rejected, or tomorrow it'll come, but let's say on the Health Committee, the next string is that when Friday he's rejected at the Parliament, he'll pay people to drive. Let me get this straight. Today, it is said that if there is a vote on this law on Friday, the decision on it will be unanimous. And I am convinced that opposition MPs will vote for any proposal that would not be to reject this bill, so for a conclusion that would show support to the Red Cross Brač, the Bračka Pupoli association on what was proposed and in which it will then be called on the government to resolve it as soon as possible. And in the hope and desire that it will still be so, I thank all those who stayed until the end of the debate and thank those who helped to come to the debate. Also in order not to be unfair, at first with the names of the public who supported this law, I did not state them all, so I want to add more, there were Damir Kejo, Marko Kutlic, Antonija and Aljoša Šerić, the group Detour, Saša Lozar, Franka Batelić and Marina Orsat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146954	Thank you very much, that concludes the debate on this point and we will vote on it to get the conditions. We will continue to work tomorrow at 9:30 and the first item will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Institutions, first reading, P.Z. No. 657. I'm sorry, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Safety Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 616, I am a little backward for days, but as announced in the morning, tomorrow we will discuss as a 5th point under a) a proposal for a Decision on the discharge of presidents, deputy presidents and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures and under b) a proposal for a decision to appoint a president, deputy president and members of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. I would also like to inform you that we would then discuss both the points of Selection and the appointment and resolution and the Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, thank you for a beautiful and pleasant evening. Session interrupted at 17.48 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-07-10-0.u146955	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport, first reading, P.Z. 528. Proposing representative Arsen Bauk, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. The proposal for a Act amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport shall not be adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 70 for, 11 abstentions and 31 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The SDP representative club proposes a conclusion to the Croatian Parliament. First, the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, first reading, P.Z. No. 528 and secondly, all opinions of the position and observations and proposals submitted in the debate will be submitted with the agreement of the Proposer to the Committee on Health and Social Policy in order to draw up a final draft of the law. It is essential to vote on this proposal for a conclusion because we have previously reached a conclusion that rejects this law. The second proposal for the conclusion of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to regulate the issue in question by adopting a regulation with legal force within 15 days. I would like to stress that during the debate, the government's representative did not accept this conclusion, so I am voting on the proposal for a conclusion by the SDP Representatives' Club. Please, let's vote. I find that the bill, the proposal for a conclusion, has not received enough votes.
