ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134641	The Honorable President of HS, the Honorable Parliamentary MPs and parliamentary representatives. As you know, the proposal of the Law on Railways has recently been on the first reading here at HS and we hope you've all met with the proposed law. Let me briefly remind you of the most important changes that the proposed law makes for us. The relevant Law on Railways shall regulate, inter alia, the arrangements and conditions for the provision of rail transport, the market for rail services, the management of railway infrastructure and the conditions of access to infrastructure, the principles and procedures applicable to the fixing of fees for railway services and the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity. The criteria for issuing and repealing licences to railway undertakings, the final proposal for a law that is before you today, is our national legislation, is fully in line with the EU acquis in the area of the single European railway area, which is achieved by comprehensive transposition of the provisions of Directive 2012/34 of the EU and Directive 2016/2370, with the establishment of a legal framework for the implementation of the Regulation of the European Community No. 1370/2007 and EU Regulation 2016/2338. The objective of European rail policy... The development of the European economy by providing high-quality reliable, safe and effective services through the establishment of a single European railway space. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Opening rail services markets, ensuring effective rail infrastructure and removing administrative and technical barriers. In order to achieve that objective, a 4th railway package consisting of a technical and steering pillar was adopted. The steering column has been transposed into the final draft of the Law on Railways. Achieving the objective of opening the rail market, i.e. the opening of the domestic rail transport market of passengers, is achieved through the amendment of the legislative framework for the management of railway infrastructure, in particular by establishing rules on the independence of infrastructure managers. It shall be allowed to choose freely between different organisational models, from complete structural independence to vertical integration, using appropriate safeguards to ensure the impartiality of the infrastructure manager with regard to the basic functions of traffic management and maintenance planning. The basic functions of the infrastructure manager are essential for ensuring fair and non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure and concern decision-making in respect of the allocation of railway routes and for the determination and collection of charges for the use of infrastructure, which excludes any inappropriate impact on the decisions of the infrastructure manager in relation to such functions. Allocation of the right of open access to rail infrastructure, to all railway undertakings in all EU Member States, for the purpose of providing rail transport services, under legal and transparent conditions, the introduction of a public tender for the award of public services contracts in rail transport,... contracts on rail transport. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is important to point out that EU Regulation 2016/2338 provides that the competent authority of a Member State, in particular the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, may decide to grant early public service contracts for public rail transport services, if it considers that the direct allocation is justified by the relevant structural and geographical characteristics of the market and network concerned, and in particular by the size of the demand features, the complexity of the network, technical and geographical isolation, and the services covered by the contract. And if such a contract can lead to an improvement in the quality of services or evaporation or both compared to the contract previously awarded for public services. Member States where, on 24 December 2017, the maximum annual market volume is less than 23 million trains and which have only one competent authority at national level and one public service contract covering the whole network are considered to meet the conditions set out in point 1. The Republic of Croatia shall fulfil the conditions mentioned above, the listed elements shall apply to the public transport services of passengers from 3 December 2019 and the duration of the contracts awarded between 3 December 2019 and 24 December 2023 in accordance with the provisions listed above shall not exceed 10 years and may continue until the date of their validity. Exactly with that, the Republic of Croatia, is with the search company HZ passenger transport d.o.o. signed a public service contract for services of general, economic interest in public rail transport to the Republic of Croatia, thus limiting the right to access passenger services. In addition, in order to enable passengers to access the information necessary for the planning of travel and ticket purchase within the Union, the railway undertaking, which provides domestic passenger transport services, will participate in the common information system and the system for issuing single tickets, which will be established by the joint body. Common information systems and systems for giving single cards will be interoperable and not discriminatory. Railway undertakings should contribute to the development of such systems, enabling multimodal and cross-border opportunities, making available in a non-discriminatory manner and in an interoperable form of all relevant information necessary for the planning of travel and booking of maps. It will be ensured that such systems, such systems are not subject to discrimination among railway undertakings and that they respect the need to ensure confidentiality of business information, protection of personal data and compliance with competition rules. With the final bill mentioned so far, it is predicted that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, with the aim of long-term planning for the development of the railway system, is adopting a strategy for the development of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. A sectoral strategy setting out objectives, measures, indicators, performance and programmes for the development of rail transport services, the development of railway infrastructure and the management of railway infrastructure. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also brings, on a proposal from the Ministry, with the aim of medium-term planning of the railway system, a national railway infrastructure development plan, i.e. National GJ plan, national rail infrastructure management plan and service facilities and the development of rail transport services, i.e. The national infrastructure management plan for railway transport carried out for a period of at least 5 years shall, on the basis of the national GH plan, the infrastructure manager, with the agreement of the Ministry and the central authority of the State Administration responsible for finance, adopt an annual plan for the construction, modernisation, renovation and maintenance of the railway infrastructure, which shall form part of the business plan of the infrastructure manager, as referred to in Article 2(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as part of the annual plan for the construction, modernisation and maintenance of the infrastructure manager. 20 of this law. Later, the owner of the railway infrastructure concludes on a period of at least 5 years with the infrastructure manager, the contract on the management of railway infrastructure, on mutual rights and obligations in accordance with the basic principles and parameters set out in Annex 4 to the final proposal of the law. The infrastructure manager is obliged to set up an information system to monitor the implementation of projects based on the national GH plan and the annual plan for the construction of modernisation, renovation and maintenance of railway infrastructure, and the realisation and investment of rail infrastructure containing data and documentation on all projects and investments and their status. The infrastructure manager must enable the ministry, continued access to the IT system to see the state of the projects and investments, as compared to the text of the bill, which was adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 8 February, the text of the final proposal for the law was also completed in a nomotechnical sense. They would certainly thank the constructive debate held at the session on the submission of the proposal for a Law on Railways, but it was more focused on the general state of the railway sector in the Republic of Croatia than on the content of the proposed law. However, we have decided to accept the justified proposal of the distinguished parliamentary representative Tomislav Lipošak who has proposed that deadlines related to the drafting of regulations which define the way in which the sectoral strategy is drawn up as short as possible. Therefore, we have concluded that the above-mentioned content is not to be regulated by the Regulation because the same objective can be much more transparent and economical by making the project task itself. Furthermore, the article of the proposed law governing the financing of railway infrastructure has been amended, with regard to the fees paid from the state budget per litre of charged excise duties on energy because it is in line with the Excise Taxation Act. Furthermore, given that the proposed law provides for inspection of the implementation of this law to be carried out by the regulatory authority or HACOM, part of the provisions governing inspection by HACOM shall enter into force on 1 January 2019. In order to implement the tasks described in those provisions, a transitional period should be laid down for the regulatory authority and, in order to extend the competence and necessary organisational changes, and those provisions were provided for to apply 6 months after the entry into force of the law in question and thus the adoption was foreseen until the end of 2018. In view of the fact that the deadline for the adoption of the law in question has been moved to HACOM, it is also necessary to move the period of entry into force of those provisions relating to the competence of HACOM and their objection is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134642	We've got seven replicas, first up, buddy Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134643	Thank you very much, dear secretary, for saying that this, this law, is absolutely in line with the legal benefits of our legislation on railways with the EU. However, the fact is that from Zagreb to Split the Triba 6 hours if you don't have the tickets to come by train, and every 3.4 days those people who buy train tickets must be on the bus because the failures are on the infrastructure, so it would be good in this first article to indicate that ours, and I suggest you, can write the amendment, that our railway infrastructure be a tourist attraction, as a historical attraction, as for the time of here are Western films, because you will come faster by bicycle from Split to Zagreb than by train. So even there's an alternative, now down in Split you're talking about buying a train ticket, and you're taking a bus, so it's so destroyed, and we're humiliating ourselves basically, you're calling for legislation. which you have copied from the EU Directive [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And we have a catastrophic railroad. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134644	The second is my colleague Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134645	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, you have brought us here, you have brought the harmonisation directives with the EU, we in the Party Change Croatia ask you to bring us in line with the speed of transport to the EU of our railways which are one of the slowest in the EU. And secondly, to bring us in line with the level of safety in the transport of railways to the EU. So, I call on the Government not to send us here just directives and bring us into line with EU acquis, do something concrete for the railway for the economy. All governments and HDZs and SDPs have so far built only roads, this is the most expensive transport, the railway has been completely neglected, thus increasing transport costs and the economy and for us passengers. So, you're not just making us a directive, we're not, we don't want to be here in Brussels, we want to decide on the most important issues of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134646	Would you like some? No, I don't. Then let's go to a colleague of the Daus, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134647	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, the conclusion is actually, at least with us in Istria, that we have the law, but we don't have the railroad. This is all beautiful and wonderful, but we don't have a 21st century railway, people travel more than 9 hours from Pula to Zagreb with the Lupoglav bus connection – Rijeka, freight traffic in Istria has been missing for many years, and the most potent freight track in Istria has been closed for over 10 years. And now I ask you, where is Istra in the whole story, there is not one strategic document or plan, and this law states, and you have said yourself that the government will adopt a sectoral strategy and national development plans. So he asks if the railway in Istria will finally get its rightful place in that strategy and national development plans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134648	Here's your answer. It's over. It's over. It's over. My colleague Chikotić, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134649	Dear colleague, I am extremely pleased that you are here today, so please answer my question, the latest report we have received on the use of the European Structural Investment Funds was at 30.6.7 years old, and I am interested and it shows that 40 billion, 40 million EUR, Croatia lost from the 2007-2013 programme and whether you have established all the irregularities, all the corrections or irregularities, and how many of the 236 million euros Croatia will eventually use envelope funds from 2007-2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134650	Comrade Curaj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134651	I thank the Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State, I think that what's said in the opening statement I think we can all welcome, any law that will bring a more efficient, accessible service and, above all, interestingly to our users is what we must support. However, the railway must be and enable greater day-to-day mobility of workers, it must be an instrument and a demographic renewal, it must give opportunities to specifically from Slavonia, from Osijek where I come from, people can work in Zagreb and live in Osijek, not to move to Zagreb first and now out of Croatia. If this law, for what is said here, harmonize and make it possible to assume, yes, but that law, in itself, may not be enough if we don't determine what our goals are and what time we want. I want to believe that you can reach Zagreb from Osijek to Zagreb within the hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134652	Comrade Misic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134653	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. The harmonisation of the law with the European Law on Railways, I would agree that it is okay, but the harmonisation of Croatia's infrastructure, with European infrastructures, we are in a fat, fat lag. It is a shame that in 28 years we did not make a single main railway Vinkovci Zagreb or Zagreb Vinkovci... Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know why it's waiting, where those money's being spent, that we've left the railroad so much, I don't know if you ever drive that railroad, and I'm still the one who likes to go. That's embarrassing when you're sitting down for four hours without telling Split you're going eight or nine hours. The problem is for us how to build the infrastructure and make and coordinate with European infrastructure and then we can say that we can also support these laws, but unfortunately, we do, I would sometimes say, if you go from here to Zagreb to Novska for 2 hours, then it's embarrassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134654	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Kirin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134655	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State, was completed in 1873 by the construction of a railway line from Karlovac to Rijeka in 3.5 years' time, since then, and has not been implemented to this day. The railway is outdated, inadequate and the idea of building a low-level railway is a national priority and a great economic interest. The plan is parts of the railway infrastructure, given in concessions, and part of the railway would also build a concessionary and then a certain period would rule it. How close are we to such a solution?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134656	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate, first in line is the Independent Lists Bridge and Honorable colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134657	Thank you very much, President. Dear secretary with her associates, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the harmonisation of the law on Croatian railways, with the legal gains of the EU, meaning certain directives are implemented in this law, which means we have one of the best laws in the world, Europe and the world, on Croatian railways, and the situation in the Croatian railways is that we are witnesses and that for years we have been repeating the disaster. The general question is whether we have railways except for the tourist offer and it would really be good to implement this law, the legal European railway property, if our railway infrastructure were essentially a tourist attraction, it would be good for people from another perspective to see Croatia, because the fact that you have to come by bicycle today, from Split, to Zagreb or from Zagreb to Slavonia, rather than by train. The fact is that when we start from Dalmatia to Zagreb who is on the train, every 3-4 days they have to cross the bus, so now they say, down the Dalmatians, ours, down here, these people, when they're on the train, essentially buying a bus ticket, because they have to sit, they don't buy for the train. So much for the legal gains and our, distinguished secretaries, the copying of these legal regulations that we are obliged to implement, in essence, about which Parliament, I do not know what to discuss, when you are witnesses, that the railway infrastructure in Croatia is dangerous for the lives of passengers, dangerous for the lives of all road users and those who need to cross, across the railway line with the vehicle. All transport participants are essentially at risk. I once mentioned in the first reading here, that it was faster blue... which would triple and return, as would be good as a tourist project also, faster ran by a marathon there at the beginning of the last century, it was in Veli Mist, than the ferata came to Sinj. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was a little harder up the hill from Solin to Klis, and now the situation is even worse. The situation is catastrophic in rail infrastructure, as railways have benefited from support and subsidies, obligations and debts of railways, railway undertakings in the government, also affecting the growth of debt in the budget deficit, since 2006-2015 in the railway sector have been granted support of €8.7 billion and the total state support has regularly exceeded 700 million kuna. In the period from 2000-2015, state guarantees with €12.64 billion were granted. Obligations and debts of state-owned railway undertakings are increasing public debt by around 1.3 GDP. While still, we have a number of directors, new vehicles, going to eat, drinking, and look at the amount. The state has increased its public debt at this time, as I said, by 1.3% of GDP, as much as it means in the subsidy. And not only that, but when we call on the EU funds, according to a report of 30.6.7. I expect you to deliver to us, the parliamentary deputies and the report for this year of EUR 913 million contracted, EUR 67 million was paid, and EUR 56 million was agreed. So it's 6.7% of what's agreed. I think it would be correct to say this here if the funds agreed by the EU funds were not used, minimally used, and therefore we have such a disastrous, dangerous, dangerous railway infrastructure. And when I see you secretaries this morning that you come here and read this law and still boast in your speech that all we've done so far is what the Triba Railway Infrastructure has done and that our legislation with this law is essentially one of the best laws we absolutely implemented legal gain, everything means OK, and basically the real state is that the railroad is worse now than 50 years ago. So you said, it's listed in the law, this is the legal framework in fact, this is, this is going to come from everything in the rulebook, this is essentially a hint of strategies, planning, maintenance. I once again asked you to come out here and say the real state of the railway infrastructure, really spent, how much money was withdrawn, I said that for 2017 with 30.6 that it was not even 7% of the amount agreed with by the Government, I am here and a number of questions have been asked and through parliamentary issues, we will do so through individual discussions, but I must say that it is dissatisfaction, here we also see the area of Istria that the railways cannot reach Zagreb if they do not have to go to another part of the Republic, if they do not have to go to another country, how did you solve it. Is it at all the interest of our partners who are being called upon by this government in the EU that Croatia has at all a railway, that it has and that our political elites have fought in Brussels, which everyone is calling for, would certainly be invested in our transport infrastructure, because we are not more than yesterday in the EU. The great damage you've done, the Ministry of Railway Infrastructure, which is why you've neglected the railway infrastructure, the railway infrastructure is dangerous to the lives of our citizens, it's dangerous, it's not maintained. Here's an answer to these questions, and everything else will mean in the name of the club, so the legal framework itself is prescribed, there's nothing new except that I said it would be good to leave it in the first article to remain as a tourist attraction, because we really have infrastructure like during the wild west, so that the sea is used in Western film productions, that it can be, it would be good to see it from some other perspective of our RH, but for serious rail infrastructure or no will, or there are some other interests, whose interests are, in fact, simply being asked, which is why there's not this much money dwindling for infrastructure that I've accumulated, and which is why it's in a catastrophic state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134658	Thank you. The second Club of Representatives is HDZ and esteemed colleague Pero Ćosic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134659	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with fellow Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues before us is the Final Proposal of the Law on the Railways in the Second Reading, and in the proposal of this law in the first reading we discussed at the end of January, so two months ago. The proposed legislation harmonizes our legislation with the EU acquis with the 4 railway packages and proposes solutions to improve quality in the transport of passengers to railways and create a framework for the competitiveness of railways. The European railway policy aims at the sustainable development of the European economy through the opening of the rail market and the establishment of a single European railway space. The European Commission has identified the railway as the backbone of public transport to the EU, due to the fastest and safest transport of goods and services, and to the resolution of traffic congestion and congestion in large cities, and most of all to the costs caused by exhaust emissions. It is known that the external costs of EU transport mean those costs that are not paid by those who produce them, but are paid by the countries because of environmental pollution means air, water, sea, countries of noise levels and everything else that makes the EU population sick. These costs are measured in hundreds of billions of euros, of which 93% of external pollution comes from road traffic. As a result, the European Commission wants to invest considerable resources in green transport to prevent external costs, i.e. diseases caused by exhaust pollution. Furthermore, the establishment of a European Single Railway Area is also important because of the Silk Road Project, which, of course, the Republic of China has been building for several long years, one type of silk is maritime, and the other is a land which would take place by rail, and the exchange and goods in the world is growing, and China is without delay one of the key global players. As Croatia stands there and can we benefit from this silk road in this sense, we must observe the development of container transport because it makes a large majority of transport on such a road, and for this reason it is necessary to train our ports to accept such a type of cargo. Luka Rijeka, which is most involved in the European mainland, is ideal for such an investment because of this, HZ Infrastructure together with the Rijeka port administration and launched the Brajdica and Zagreb coast projects. We know that the competition of our port of Rijeka is for this kind of intermodal transport, the port of Kopar and the port of Trieste. In the port of Kopar, the depth of the gauze is smaller than it is currently in Rijeka, and the saturation of traffic and goods terminals is both significant and above 90%, in the port of Kopar and about 98%. The opening of the Suez channel for two-way transport significantly accelerates the traffic and transit of goods from the east to Europe, and the depth of the gas ships that can transport by that channel is 20 m, and this fact in the near future gives Rijeka, Rijeka port a significant comparative advantage over the ports of Kopar and Trieste. On Brajdica, on Brajdica, and by the end of Zagreb coast, Rijeka will be able to receive the largest cargo ships with a 20 m gas and this means specifically that the port of Rijeka will be able to accept the container ship, so-called. A queen who goes from China with 16 thousand containers. The current situation is such that the weekly arrival of two queen ships with 13 thousand containers, which tour all three ports, unload part of the cargo at each port, and unfortunately at least the cargo is unloaded at the port of Rijeka due to port capacity and the possibility of further transport of goods towards Western and northern Europe. But when the Zagreb coast and Brajdica in Rijeka are finished, millions and 800 thousand containers can be accepted annually. Of course, it is particularly important to stress that, in order for this to work, a two-way track must be built, and such an investment, according to today's findings, would increase the income of HZ Infrastructure, only on this track by 13 times, in relation to the current situation, or current revenues from that direction. The efficiency of HZ remains lagging in comparison with the railways of other EU member states, and it is caused by a good part and outdated infrastructure and outdated property that requires and great labour intensity, as an example can be taken and that we have no automatic control on either track, or remote control of turns, means that when a train comes to a station, it comes out of it, it is directed to certain tracks and that part of the maneuver is done on turns, it is performed manually, and we know of one place, whether in that place or any other economy that is on duty for 24 hours, there are 5 people. So 5 people at the entrance, 5 at the exit, and the same can be done remotely from the dispatch centre at the station. The railway network in Croatia is not in line with the needs of a country like Croatia today. The development of the railway network should be a function of sustainable and balanced development and an active reference to the common European market and respect for the specificities arising from the geographical features of our country. The development of rail infrastructure in HR is extremely important for economic and social growth, as well as for the international integration of the Republic of Croatia and for achieving strategic objectives and positioning our country in a network of European corridors. HZ Infrastructure, through EU funds, currently invests significantly in the development of HR1 and HR2 corridors, which is the 5th and 10th corridor of the old name, which is slightly more than 600km in length, however, the issue remains of investment in the rest of the railway network, which remains 2,000 km away. The aim is to work on measures that will modernise and improve business processes in HZ society to make full use of investments that will improve railways and provide services and bring Croatian citizens back to trains, while protecting their rights within the EU as a whole. Changes to achieve the objectives outlined are part of this proposed law. This Final proposal of the Law on Railways is comprehensive and brings together all the good solutions so far and brings about improvements, i.e. it provides a regulatory framework for improving passenger transport services, introduces new organisational methods of management of railway infrastructure and rules for participants in the rail system, and enables the infrastructure manager to now choose freely between different forms of organisational models, from structural independence to vertical integration. I would like to emphasise this, and I also talked about it in the debate of the proposed law in the first reading, how this law provides for the adoption of a strategy for the development of a rail system that will enable investment insurance in us, and as we see in Europe, significant corridors and ultimately create new jobs in industry, for example in Končar for trains, in Đura Djakovic for wagons, to open new logistics centres near Rijeka port and other ports in which part of the goods would be processed and processed for the needs of end-users. I reiterate that the realisation of such a strategic plan would ensure a long-term perspective for Croatian entrepreneurs and craftsmen who are linked to such systems, which would contribute to a stable movement and development of the national economy. The strategy plans to develop an institutional, legislative, organisational format for the railway system and, as proposed by the law, is to be adopted for a period of at least 10 years and national plans for a period of at least 5 years. I hope the sectoral... be adopted before the deadline prescribed by this law or within about 12 months of the entry into force of this law, as announced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The law also provides for 20 months, we see that a partial and accepted comment from the debate on the draft law in the first reading, to speed up the process of drawing up strategic documents, and it is found that it is not necessary to draw up a Regulation on how these documents are drawn up, given that they are the same, but can also be achieved more quickly through the creation of a project task. In order to speed up the state of affairs and improve business processes and achieve the objectives that we are aiming for, it is certainly necessary to make sure that the deadlines within which other strategic documents and plans for the development of railway infrastructure are drawn up are as short as possible, it is also important that we do not prepare projects in time and not apply them in the new financial period since 2012-2017, the funds will be re-distributed to the development of the trans-European network in other countries. The budget has been adopted for the accounting period for this purpose and amounts to 42.3 billion euros. The adoption of this law creates a quality and modern legislative framework for the development and better management of the Croatian rail system and its necessary modernisation. And finally, certainly the HDZ Club will support this final bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134660	We are now going to the SDP Representatives' Club, Honorable Vice President Sinisha Hajdas Doncic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134661	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Honorable President HS, State Secretary and Associates. Personally, therefore, I believe that the issue of infrastructure, and so does railway infrastructure, is not the issue of one political party, either as it was called, but is exclusively a national issue, which means that political parties should compete in a way that will be simpler, cheaper, better, faster, infrastructure-based, therefore, RH. So this is exclusively the Law on Railways, so read the Act on HH Infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. So I'm going to present a few of my thoughts and objections as far as the railroad law is concerned. I am not sure that the provisions of the Law on Railways will have the proper application, so we are talking about a new law, so certains in a vertically integrated company whose system would be the infrastructure manager and transport service provider. I hope you've got some information on how long it is, for example, HZ Carg towards HZ infrastructure, that it amounts to 180 million kunas at present, so I'm just wondering, and it's good to always wonder where the past two years have gone from the restructuring plan and why political parties aren't at that moment, we're talking about your political party, the contestants, so that this restructuring plan actually ends, unrelated to the liberalized Carga market in 2013. and unrelated to the fact that there are already 5, 6, and perhaps more operators that have been reported, therefore, that they drive on Croatian railways a burden. So, I'm thinking that he's going to go back into some kind of holding-up is actually a)contraproductive, b)economical dangerous, because if in this way he thinks, therefore, he's going to hide debts and run from one company to another, you're going to instead of one political dead man, so he's going to get 3, and according to the World Bank's plan and program, so, which is before 3, 4 years ago, so I'm saying, there are no political parties, so he's talking about something else, he's talking about stronger restructuring of HZ Cargo, he's talking about a whole company, but I mean the market that exists, it's travelleric, I'm not going to throw myself on their plans to get new trains where we're standing with those 22 that are acquired from Concar, but I'm just warning that I'm not sure that this vision of your holding-ing, which I's absolutely harmful in the railroad, but it's what we can talk about it's like some of the law and the law of the EU, and the law of law, and the law of law of law, and the EU. Now, let's go on, financing HZ infrastructure, so we can all talk here that we have several sources of funding, so state resources, EU funds, own funds, so, that's what we get from the lease, concession loans, public private partnership. So, I don't have anything personal against the article. 13, so where they leave us with the ability of the infrastructure manager or HH to entrust his functions to a third person, I'm only sorry that it's not exactly precise in the laws that are functions, but it's probably functions, I guess, of the manager's functions. Why? Because the experiences of France, Spain, and I like to compare with the EU's honours, I don't like to compare myself with, so, with some, I don't know, Interto Cups, but I like to watch the Champions League, that concessions are possible, public private partnerships are possible, but I hope that you are aware, because you are in infrastructure, that all these projects must be highly profitable and that the state must participate significantly in such projects, so I suggest to all of you to reduce the sentiments of so-called. The low-level railways, because the low-level railways to you, I don't think anyone will build a concession if it doesn't involve the state, so we also have a few bad experiences from the road-building concessions, I think you've been following this, remember, let's say someone will say it's good, I say it's bad, remember the Zagreb-Macelj highway, the RH has now, look at the items in the ministry pay about 120 million kuna per year, so, the subsidy he earned at the construction, be realistic that the cost of construction was 100, and it was built for 60, so... Four times, don't do this to yourself with concessions for rail infrastructure because it's expensive, it's expensive and it costs money. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Furthermore, I prefer to hear the story of EU funds, so everything in the Republic will be built by EU funds, absolutely everything. So, let's go, the fact is, here's your data, the database data, so that's our money, the Republic of Croatia is contributing to the EU budget, and it's going to contract even more. Again, I would prefer to compare myself with Austria and Germany, but unfortunately, I cannot, we must compare, for example, with Bulgaria and Romania. Do you know how much their co-financing for the construction of railway infrastructure was on average in recent years? What do you think? We're not on a quiz, but here, how much do you think? You know how much? 30 to 50%. And what happens to HZ infrastructure, look at how much they're going to pay for the distribution, so from their own funds due to the difolt in the railroad, I'm talking to the Crosses, we're here somewhere, we're going to get to 50%, it's not your fault, it's just that we're going to be somewhere, so we're going to have to talk again, about additional funds for HZ infrastructure to pay, so, and that difference is about so on. and if we're going to open the book to the end, let's think about where construction firms come from, where most of the intellectual comes from, and God and some sophisticated equipment, look at the analysis and see how much really so-called. by means of grants we finance therefore German and Austrian producers, so if we are to look honestly at it is not only a railway thing that is a matter of all projects in Croatia it is actually agglomeration in water, see where you will find what is most expensive, where your devices will come from. So it will come precisely from those countries that are highly technologically developed, so that the effect of the EU itself will be very, very, very low. So, I suggest you, I suggest you try to form an appropriate fund at the state level for HZ infrastructure, so that will also be used for this insufficiency of funds so-called. 85%, and you will also benefit from further investment in HZ infrastructure. I would also advise you to comply with the EU's so-called policy. The White Paper of Croatia to move further towards detimulation of freight by road, at greater distances, so by introducing environmental taxis and revenue for.../incomprehensible/... railway infrastructure. And other than that, it's irrelevant now, which I think it was okay to transfer part of the highway charges to HZ infrastructure because it's a clean fund, so I'm still suggesting that even part of the fee paid in the registration of road motor vehicles to reroute to the maintenance of railways. There is something similar to Switzerland, which is not an EU member, but is also allowed. And in conclusion, therefore, thank God I don't belong to some of these populist orientations in my head, we can all be aware that Croatia took another 2000 years, so I'm going to say political decision, we're going to build highways, we're not going to build a railroad, it was a political decision. Why? Small countries, such as Croatia definitely do not have enough financial capacity to operate several forms of transport with their own resources. We opted for highways, it's OK, as a society, as a state and we consume it, but in the future we also need to make a certain political decision because we know, according to that latest data, I think that how much, between 6 and 9% is actually a railway of rentable currently in Croatia I'm talking about passenger traffic, so below 10%. Once again, a political decision needs to be made to stimulate the number of residents left in Croatia so that they can use the railway more. And in view of what they say at the beginning of some strategy, that actually a transport strategy should be a national priority, not a party programme, I will still propose to the SDP Representatives' Club to be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134662	Now it's the club of IDS, PGS and LRI's respected colleague Emil Daus. Before our colleague Daus speaks to us, I would like to welcome the students and students of the Konjscina High School, welcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134663	Dear President, honourable state secretary with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs, I am reporting for a debate on behalf of the IDS Club, PGS, LRI after I tried to point out the problems of the railways in Istria in the debate in the first reading of the law. I'm going to try to represent this problem through five points. The first is the strategic planning of the railway in Istria, the second construction and modernisation of railway infrastructure and its connection with the rest of the country, the third organisation and freight traffic management on the Istrian railway, the fourth organisation of passenger traffic management on the Istrian railway and the fifth safety of traffic on and along the Istrian railway. First of all, when we talk about strategic planning, the plans for the train in Istria do not exist in any strategic document that I have previously highlighted in the replica. In the first reading of the law, we could see and hear that the government of the Republic of Croatia would adopt a strategy for the development of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia. A sectoral strategy, based on this sectoral strategy, is adopted by the Government on a proposal from the RES, under (a) a national railway infrastructure development plan and under (b) a national railway infrastructure management plan and the development of rail transport services. Last time I suggested that it was not good for such strategic documents to be brought only by the government and the resolution ministry, they should be part of a broad public debate from the lowest levels to the debate itself here in the assembly. Given that the government has not accepted this proposal, I call here on this speaker to be in the sectoral strategy as well as national development and governance plans must be building, modernising and managing the railway line in Istria and connecting it with the rest of the country. This is the second point I'm sure we'll all agree here to accept, because Istria as one of only 3 counties that fill the state budget more than empty it, as the region that is the biggest driver of development in the country deserves a quality, modern and profitable rail. I guess Istria finally deserves one train tunnel through Učka to connect with the rest of the country, but not just laying a cornerstone like 1993, but a real tunnel built. Yes, Istria deserves a modern railway, not to boast of it, but to create new values and further develop the economy by transporting goods, passengers, as well as by providing services. And in Istria, there is enormous potential in both freight and passenger transport. As for freight traffic, which is the third point of this exhibition, in the debate at first reading we pointed to the advantage of the Rijeka port phenomenon and today someone mentioned the huge potential of Brašica port in Istria for rail transport as well as several industrial and business zones throughout Istria. The economics and therefore the economic competitiveness of freight transport by rail does not need to be spent on roads. I'm asking if we really don't see it or we don't want to see it. For 5.6 years there has been no freight train on the Istrian railway, and the railway towards the port of Brasica closed for 10 years after the already known slope of the same. Not only has it been closed, it has grown in forest, and everything within a few hundred meters of one of the most potent Istrian industrial zones of the one in Potpican, in developed, rich countries, railways are constantly being built, upgraded, reconstructed, and industrial zones have special colossics, which bring long train compositions. Are you aware of colleagues and colleagues, who have actually lost wealth in front of me, and passenger rail traffic, trains are old, unreliable, large number of malfunctions, especially in summer due to overheating, which of course causes delays, the number of passengers has fallen, sometimes in summer passengers, do not know whether the train will come at all. Trains are actually driven, only those who have to, because they don't have anywhere near another alternative, suitable and public means of transport. And now, instead of investing in the railroad, there is a limit on the speed of trains, which extends the time of the journey, so that from year to year time travels more and more. Respected representatives and ministries, respected colleagues and colleagues, modernising the railway in Istria, would certainly have seen a major positive shift in passenger transport, especially in tourist arrivals. Do you realize how much this would reduce the pressure of traffic jams at the border, but also on road roads, which in many ways help in their preservation and regular maintenance. Not to mention how modern, fast trains would increase the traffic of the local population, in terms of public transport and how much it would contribute to the conservation of the environment. The last point, also mentioned by someone today, is traffic safety, under-remaining, rail belts, resulting in growth, especially at a time of increased vegetation, creating less transparency and threatened traffic safety. There are still many road transports across the railways, which do not have bumpers or semi-defines, do not have those light signs, and the lack of them is trying to adjust, either by reducing the speed of trains or by limiting road traffic, which recently, which in some cases reflects directly on the economy. It's not solving the problem, it's... additional problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So once again, I call on the government to invest our country as a whole in a modern railway in Istria through some of the models that will be most acceptable to the wider community. This will return multiple times, through the transport of goods and services, through the economy, employment, tourism and conservation of the environment, and ultimately and only the filling of the state budget, making it easier to service all other needs in society. And finally, let me conclude, once again, we appeal to the strategic documents concerning railways, and rail transport and services, as soon as possible, to include railways in Istria with their transport arms towards Pula and the port of Brasica, to define Istria's railway link with Rijeka, as well as to use a direct link with Slovenia and the rest of Europe. Otherwise, it will be clear that, indeed, they have raised their hands, from modern, high-quality and profitable railways in Istria, and thus, the automatic and economic development of Croatia. Given that the last time I didn't get an answer to the question, when I think about starting with the reconstruction and modernization of the railway in Istria, I'm asking today what the answer will be, I'm sure, much easier to give. Mr Secretary of State, will those proposals be taken into account and included Istria in the strategy for the development of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia and based on it and on national plans for the development and management of railway infrastructure and the development of rail transport services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134664	Now it's time for the club of representatives of the HNS, two MPs, the first respected colleague of the Macar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134665	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers of colleagues and colleagues. Today, we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on Railways, and it is in fact a full alignment with the EU acquis and with the fourth railway package. The main objectives of this fourth railway package are to establish a single European railway space, to complete the internal rail transport market and simplify the European legislative framework, to provide rail transport services. Because the railroad doesn't know the state's borders. In Europe, they recognize all the advantages of railways, rail transport and there is increased traffic, both passengers and freight traffic, but unfortunately, we have a drop and transport of goods and transport of passengers. Our railway infrastructure, we've heard in all the debates so far, is not at the level, which could provide these advantages. This law transposes the provisions of the Directive on the opening of the market, for the services of domestic rail transport of passengers and the management of railway infrastructure. The law also lays down rules, which relate to transport and infrastructure management services, to independent infrastructure managers and railway undertakings, to the issue and removal of licences, to rail services and fees, non-discriminatory access to infrastructure and rail services, and to the legal status of railway infrastructure. With the aim of long-term planning for the development of the rail system of the Republic of Croatia, the government is foreseen to adopt a strategy for the development of the rail system, which sets out the objectives, measures, indicators of the success of the implementation and programmes of the development of rail transport services, the development of railway infrastructure and the management of railway infrastructure. On the basis of the sectoral strategy, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, on a proposal from the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure with the aim of medium-term planning, the development of the railway system brings forward a national plan for the development of railway infrastructure and a national plan for the management of railway infrastructure and the development of rail transport services. That's what we have in art. The 82nd Act, where the deadlines are also mentioned, provides for a sectoral strategy to be adopted within 20 months of the date of entry into force of this law, while for national plans in accordance with Article 20. 17. It is necessary to be within 2 years of the date of entry into force of this law. Are those optimal deadlines? Well, I believe they are. And that it will be done in quality and that, in accordance with these strategies, we will act. We're aware of the situation on our railroad, we're aware that it's bad. That the bad condition of two at a time is also linked to the provision of bad services, so we are not surprised that it is a fall in traffic, both goods and passengers. Because precisely because of this poor infrastructure, there are frequent interruptions, there are frequent delays, and it can really be improved only by huge investment in infrastructure and how the train modernization is also done in the modernisation of trains. The strategy itself is expected to be much. In this strategy, it should certainly play an important role in the integrated transport of passengers in which the railway should be a spine, as the Secretary of State itself pointed out in the first reading, when I asked her about this very topic of integrated transport. So, what should be revived as soon as possible, and according to this new strategy, is the new system of local public transport of passengers, where all public transport vehicles, so trains, buses, trams, ships are united, and the common system of passenger transport in a particular region relys on that. For all public transport lines, therefore, trains, buses, trams would be worth unique common tickets in the region as a whole. This system is already being developed and functioning long in the EU, but also in the world. And yes, and there's the rail spine of the system and it's recognized as the spine and it's all attached to it precisely because of its ecological, energy and infrastructure advantages. Other vehicles of public transport, primarily buses, are tributaries and rely on the railroad and thus use great advantages precisely in these short relations. On 23 April 2014, a Partnership Agreement was concluded between the Varazdin County, Međimurje County and the Koprivnica-Criszeva County, which was the basis of a project for the development of integrated transport. A master plan was also drawn up, which was completed in January 2017, and by now the pilot-line should have been established because a joint meeting of representatives of the Varazdin County with representatives of cities and municipalities from that area concluded the conclusion of the start of the pilot project from the beginning of the school year 2018/2019. This unfortunately did not happen, but this year, a meeting was organised in Međimurje County in February, where, in addition to the mayor of Međimurje County, Matija Posavac with the State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, Nikolina Brnjac and the representative of HZ's administration, the travel transport was attended by the deputy mayor of the Varazdin County and the deputy mayor of Koprivnica-Kryzeva County. During the working meeting, an agreement was signed on a long-standing partnership relationship in the development of rail transport and integrated passenger transport in the Koprivnica-Kryzevac County, Međimurje County and Varazdin County. These are, that is, the region of Northern Croatia, and that is between the passenger transport and those mentioned counties. The State Secretary stressed this at the same time that the north is ahead of the thinking of traffic and that these three counties of signatories of the agreement with Croatia's first-ever Croatian HZ have come up with a master plan for integrated transport and a sustainable mobility strategy. That's not to be surprised, because it's a rural area. It's about the area where transport is a big problem. Where mobility is really bad, where our residents have problems getting to their municipal centres, to their county centers, how to get to school, if they need to get to the hospital, and they don't have their own transportation, so it's not surprising that engagement is precisely in solving this problem. Since, here's the signed second agreement, that's the master's plan. We sincerely hope that there will soon be a realisation of this important project. We expect this master plan to be reviewed as quickly as possible in other parts of Croatia, i.e. to move north of Croatia, and I am sure that it will show itself, regardless of its beginnings, as a good project and that it will be changed to all other parts of Croatia and that it will be just recognised and realised in accordance with this development strategy. And now I'm going to ask, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134666	The Honorable President, the Honorable Secretary of State and other colleagues on behalf of the promoter, colleagues and colleagues. So, I will only be very brief on what rail transport, rail infrastructure, would mean to us in Croatia. We know that the high-speed rail infrastructure is extremely expensive. There are now tens of millions of euros on the European average and up to some figures, if I'm not mistaken per mile. But what does she bring? We of course, when we do any investment cost-effectiveness study, it won't pass. So the physicality can't pass, especially it can't pass if we look at the number of passengers because you really need to be a great enthusiast or not have another mode of transportation and the ability to sit down, say, from Split to Zagreb for 6 hours, from Osijek to Zagreb, the journey from 250 km on average is over 5 hours, I think it's fastest 4.5 hours, and we haven't got a number of times and 6 hours, and when we look at the number of passengers observed, of course we don't pay for anything to do, we might as well close it all up, but that way we won't get anywhere. We here have to look at cost-benefit analysis, so knowingly know that we are investing in something that may not bring profitability in the first wave, but in other ways it will pay off, as a cabler for example, not a single cabler in itself, not in any ski resort, is its investment, its maintenance, less or less what you pay for those ski dogs that apply to the maintenance of the track, and the cabler is small enough to cover the costs of possible maintenance, never to return investment, but that investment returns through cost-benefit, through everything these people bring, pay for accommodation, spend money and raise economic activity in that area, that's what we have to do here when we talk about railways. We can use the railway in the tourism sector, in the passenger transport sector above all, when we talk about the high-speed railway. Imagine the road from Osijek to Zagreb, it's 250 km, imagine now one, I might sound unheard here, that someone may cross that path in less than an hour, that it takes me from Osijek to Zagreb 50 minutes, 300 per hour of railways, 2-3 stops, and maybe an hour. What would that mean for the citizens, what would that mean for all those who want and might get a job in Zagreb, and can continue living in Osijek, the surrounding places? What would that mean for an air transport? Suddenly Osijek airport gets a new dimension, for lo-cost special carriers, it's not a problem, we all go somewhere with lo-cost carriers, and more or less so I drive myself when I go to 90 and some percent of the cases, I come somewhere, if you'll London, an hour and a half from London, an hour Brussels, anywhere, in which European city you travel to the center. So it can be here, come to Osijek and train in an hour in the center of Zagreb. The railroad drives you from the centre to the center, not waiting on a plane for such small destinations is not worth it, while you wait, while all at the end, you spend a lot more time driving to the plane and driving to the place, but the flight itself, of course, which takes a lot faster today to get to Osijek priced than the plane that drives Osijek-Zagreb because there is no difference that the plane can make up for at its speed, but that's why the railroad can and should. We already have such systems, Madrid, Barcelona, more people going by rail than by plane because they're taking you from downtown Madrid to downtown Barcelona. And now, of course, this law in its own sense has all the tools, possibilities and we need to bring it in, it's not at all doubtful, it's just a question of what we are really going to do and what are our goals and what are our strategic definitions because by developing such a network, we connect Split-Zagreb and Zagreb-Osjek, and then ultimately connected Split-Osjek, it certainly gets a greater opportunity in labour mobility, in staying people in those parts, especially when we talk about Slavonia and Baranja, tourist potential much greater through various organised travels, of course, and all that it carries. Cargo traffic is for itself, it is something quite different, but, of course, by increasing economic activity in these areas, it will increase the need to transport primarily goods and even services when we talk about people. That's why I think it's safe, of course we should, and that we're going to accept this law, that he's essentially predicting it well, but in this one it's just important that it doesn't stay that letter on paper. We have a problem maintaining this existing infrastructure as we have, and we're squirming in debt, of course, we don't have passengers, so there won't be any passengers. It's the same story of whether you have to have a dock to get your boat or if your ships have to come in to make sense to make a dock, so which boat will come to you if you don't have a dock, it doesn't go so upside down, and here, if you don't have quality, fast, efficient, economical service, so you won't have any passengers. And if we start from the level of physicality right now, we don't have to do anything anymore, we can put the key in the lock, which, unfortunately, has happened many times already, especially for some inter-urban railway lines and in Slavonia in the far line and train Sarajevo that went across Osijek to Budapest was abolished, etc., etc. and we must then think about these interconnections at European level and there will certainly be much, much more opportunities for the development of our tourism, especially continental tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134667	We're done with clubs, so let's move on to an individual debate, first order of business, colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134668	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary, two days ago, Maja Bakran, Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission, says the Republic of Croatia is late with project 241 million Euros of Koprivnica-Križevci, the Republic of Croatia could be left without EU funding. I'd, I'd ask him a few questions and a secretary before on behalf of the club, here and now I'm asking him a question. So, EUR 241 million for the Koprivnica-Križevci project, says the chief deputy director of the European Commission's transport management is not a small money of EUR 241 million, so to answer, is this true what she said 19 months ago, so Deputy Director-General Majom Bakran? I have already said that according to the 2017 report in 6 months, since the 36th year you gave a report where 913 million were agreed on in the railway infrastructure, so the agreed projects and EU funds, EUR 67 million was paid, so this is some kind of copy of 6-7% of the contracted, and EUR 56 is, therefore, paid, i.e. paid. Yeah. I am interested here in why this money from EU funds has not been used, which is why we are threatened that the Republic of Croatia will not win for a very important project of EUR 241 million, which is slightly less than 2 out of this 2 billion kuna is not a small project, it is huge money. Or everything else is on those promises by Minister Žalac and Oleg Butkovic, and mostly Minister Žalac, who has the Ministry of Regional Development and the EU Funds, in fact which is obviously a purpose for himself and I don't see any sense that there is this, this ministry is not what it is, we are in the EU the worst after withdrawing the funds that confirm this statement by the Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission. And, of course, we, as Parliamentarians, expect an answer from a minister or secretary. Is it true what the Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission said? This harmonisation with European acquiss and European legislation or the application of Croatian legislation can not be freely passed. For what? The only thing the Croatian government will use now and in the elections now is that we have harmonised our legislation, that here is the issue, but the fact is that in reality, only when we see this statement from the Deputy Director-General of the European Commission's Transport Office is saying that everything is the opposite. And it is called, when our prime minister is called for great friendships, for the EU's strong role in infrastructure, and let him explain this statement by the Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission, is it not only to say that I am friends with Juncker, Tusk, Macron, Tajani, not enough. The fact is that 241 million EUR for the project Koprivnica – Crosses for rail infrastructure Croatia could be left without funding, I quote here, quote the person, who is the deputy head of state, means the Deputy Chief Director of Transport. I said just now from Split to Zagreb 6 hours are driving under happy circumstances. For what? Is every few days 4.5 days anyone who buys a train ticket, essentially not by train but by bus, so you buy a train ticket because trains are not correct, railways are not correct, infrastructure is not correct, signalling is not correct, so it would be good in this first article where the list of which is why this law is brought into line with the European Directive, it would be good to indicate that railway infrastructure is a tourist attraction. So that we preserve it as a tourist attraction because we really don't, you can't see it anywhere, but in Western movies and really this production and film production could work on this example, so we can do our own films, we can documentaries, I mentioned it in the blue river, that the blue river was much faster, and you, Mr. Secretary Mikoć, because you have ties with Sinja and you know often in Sinj, you heard about the blue river, that the blue river was one ferrata, was one of the dates Zagora Sinja with Split, and it would be good to return her to that tourist attraction because it would really connect the Dalmatian Zagora Zagora Zagora Zagora to Split, and then I read how much investment in, as the state invested in the infrastructure itself. So the railways are next to the shipyard and the roads are the third largest beneficiary of state aid, guarantees and subsidies. Obligations and debts of railway undertakings owned by state-owned companies also affect the growth of public debt and budget deficits. From 2006 to 2015, support from 7 8.7 billion kuna, 8.7 billion kuna was granted in the railway sector, and total state support regularly exceeded 700 million kuna per year, plus surpluses. During the period 2000-2015, state guarantees to HZ 12.64 billion kuna, liabilities and debts of state-owned railway undertakings increased public debt by around 1.3 GDP, which means defeating when we see results. Because our railroad isn't, I don't know if we live in the real and the same world, the state of our infrastructure. I would mention once again that there are a lot of these discussions, a lot of these laws that have no other things except that, no other effects except to be praised by the Government as implementing European gains legally in the legal framework of the Republic of Croatia, enough is the session of the Government that was in Split you believed Mr. Mikoc and then were, at that time, promised a merger of Sinja on the highway and the Cetinsko end of Kukuzovac – Križice, the rave Drvenik, the merger of Imotski, a combination of all the meanings of transport infrastructure from which there will be nothing. And what was launched for Sinj 2016 when I pressured myself, then a feasibility study was developed, a variant was chosen, but who cares about these parts. This government was held, 2, 3 times back to Dračevac, a couple of times openings of the Drvenik race, now it's going to be the cornerstones again, and there's going to be that lamb that's left in the campaign to get what vote, and that's that. So there are no realities, these areas simply except for promises, except as in Lica, yesterday I said, there were more ministers, our meeting president was in Lica, there were more ministers than residents in Lica in elections, than ministers, but ministers, behind each beech of one minister, and you know how many beech there are in Lica, so there are not only enough to come to campaign, look for votes, come to Zagora, when Sinjska alka, Vrhorska prosciutto, and when it's a pre-election campaign, but also to implement European legislation and legal gain, but absolutely to those ends, except for the promise of the meetings of governments in pre-election times, the opening of stone foundations here I will try to make sure that whatever promise we lay the foundation to reduce the costs of the state, not to come insurance, vehicles so all of this project Sinj have to say the Kukuzovsovsa, I'll have no problems, the President'll have nothing left to solve the problems, and no more than the presidents, and I'll be left. As far as railways are concerned, they are the only tourist attraction faster by bicycle, I will repeat that, you come from Split to Zagreb than by train. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134669	We don't have a replica, so we're going to another exhibition, colleague Sasa Djujic, and he's gone, so he's losing his speech. Well, then it's time for you to meet your esteemed colleague, mistress Maximchuk, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134670	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable State Secretary with his associates, as most speakers have already said in the introduction what the final proposal of this law is and I will repeat it, which is a full harmonisation with the EU acquis and with the 4 railway packages. The main objective of this 4 railway package is to establish a single European railway space, simplify the European legislative framework, create a framework for the competitiveness of railways, and just now the European Commission has defined itself as the backbone of public transport in the EU because of the fastest and safest transport of goods and services, to address traffic in large cities and mainly because of one-off, one-off costs of exhaust emissions, a large number of sufferers and in the EU as well as the costs of their treatment. This is why the European Commission wants to invest and invest in so-called Green transport. Without the railway strategy, they will continue to lose both passenger and freight traffic unless significant reforms are implemented in order to adapt to current and future market conditions, reforms must achieve results in the fact that the railway service becomes competitive with road transport. We must say that our road infrastructure is among the better in the EU, so I note that railways must become modern, but must also be competitive on the market. Compared to other EU countries, the level of demand for freight transport in Croatia is actually more than the EU average, but the use of railways for passenger transport remains lagging behind. The exchange of goods and goods in the world is growing and there may be an opportunity for us, my colleague from the club noted that there is a Republic of China that has been building this silk road for many years and one species of this road is sea, the other is rail, of course that this significant role has been played by our ports, but most of our ports must be prepared for container transport, because most of these goods go the container way. By passing this law with the aim of long-term planning for the development of the railway system for the first time, a 10-year strategy is being adopted, which will allow us to secure investment in us significant, and as we have seen in Europe significant railway corridors. Of course there are national plans that will certainly be made to improve quality and provide rail services, we saw between the first and second readings that this deadline will speed up. So by modernising the railroad and achieving higher speeds, modernising the rolling stock, station, modernising the timetables that are sometimes quite old and really driving along some old timetables that have not been in the last few years managed to comply with the traffic of passengers, there are a lot of work and challenges ahead of us, but in order to return traffic to the railway, it is certainly necessary to implement all this. Therefore, I would like to point out once again that the aim of this law is to bring European norms and EU regulations into line, to modernise the railway as a whole by adopting a strategy and finally create new jobs in industry so that we can naturally produce trains, wagons, open and expand logistics centres in our ports, and therefore welcome the adoption of this Law on Railways. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134671	Thank you. We'll continue with an individual discussion. Next is colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134672	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, today the theme of the draft Law on Railways is another reading, we have seen what was here of good proposals, unfortunately only one proposal from the HDZ Club that is in power, and imagine this proposal is that it should be so precise that it says there, you need to speed up the development of the railway strategy. Imagine a country that harmonizes with, your railway with European railways that are far more developed, and there is no strategy at all to develop and solve problems in, on Croatian railways. What I know is that the World Bank has assisted and given a certain loan to develop the development plan, the development strategy of the Croatian Railways, I don't know how much it cost, I personally saw some analyses of the findings and there are very useful things there. However, as the government comes from the beginning, it obviously begins its strategy and, of course, has nothing. What we are changing in the Party Croatia is that this assembly and this government are not only suffering us with new directives in order to bring Croatia in line with legal gains, EU gains, but in the case of the railway, let them first and foremost bring us into line when it comes to railways with the speeds of transport of passengers and freight and, on the other hand, to bring us into line with the level of safety of rail transport in developed EU countries. These are the real goals and tasks that a government must do, and that is also relevant in the Law on Railways. Therefore, this law, believe me, you see here being debated, most of these conversations are such that something is said to be involved. Not at all, there are few concrete suggestions. To say a few things about the importance of the railway in Croatia, first of all, it is necessary to say that HH is involved in the transport of the total load with everything of 17%, and in the EU, the participation of railways in freight transport is about 28%. Well, please, it's all clear here. So, the previous governments only invested in the roads and invested billions in it. All right. We've got good highways today. The other problem was that it was too expensive, but it was governments and they were responsible for it. So road traffic is very expensive. Far more expensive than rail traffic. This increases the unit costs of transport at all relations in Croatia, which raises the price of final products throughout Croatia of all goods being transported. Why has no one so far touched and restructured HZ based on a specific strategy or development programme? Well, because no one wants to touch, let's put it that way, in a picturesque sense, they're turning the nest because there's a large number of workers working there, they're organized unions. I can stop the locomotives, which was happening, and everybody's running away from it. The Republic of Croatia, i.e. taxpayers, invest in the HH system every year between 700 million and 1 billion kuna, means from the subsidy budget. That's not what you're talking about. It's been said, of course, over the last year, and that's what it takes, to restructure shipbuilding, but HH is not spoken of. Do you know when they'll talk? When the level of debt and trouble gets to the throat, then suddenly overnight they'll say, you see, we have a problem with HH. That's how this government, this state, and it's high time we changed it for respected citizens and respected MPs. But we cannot change Croatia this way. That they send us from Brussels directives that we should bless and adopt here. Actually, we don't have what, the directive is a warrant, an order to do something. We can talk here. How are we going to change? You see, in order to change this, we first need to, with the help of citizens, by their will to come to power, take responsibility for Croatia and then systematically start changing and implementing certain policies. As regards transport, transport, which is extremely important, increasingly important, as regards shipbuilding, pension system, health system, foreign policy, national security and all other public policies. But let's get back to the railroads. No one, therefore, knows how to spend money from 700 million to a billion kuna each year to subsidize the railroad. There's no record of that, you see. There's no vision of what you're doing with the railroad. In 1873, Željeznica Rijeka-Karlovac was opened, further towards Zagreb, about 167 km long. There were about 23 thousand workers working on it and they laid about 17 meters of rails a day, rails, so fast, 3.5 years should have been made. What connects the track to the current one is the same speed of train movement. Imagine, 148 years ago and today trains on that route are driving so fast. And you see what's interesting. Both our prime minister and the ruling coalition, they say they want to join the Silk Road. Well, silk is a thousand years away from you, you can't carry wool or logs, let alone join the Silk Road. What he's doing at that time, Italy. Italy, you've seen in the past few days, they've been working very agilely to form a partnership and they've signed this contract with the Chinese to activate the meaning of building ports, connect them to their high-speed railways, and that's the thing, it dynamics the economy. We will never and will never be able to dynamic the port of Rijeka, until a railway corridor is made, or a new railway is built on the river-Zagreb-Serb-Hungarian border, and this leads on. So nothing seems to be on that plan. There's nothing but loose stories and nothing else. What hurts me like a man, a citizen, is a situation in the Vinkovci. I love Slavonia, especially Vinkovci, and I'm married from there. That city was a typical city of railways, railways. Imagine, somewhere up to 89 years old, there were about 18 million passengers passing through Vinkovce a year, about 50,000 passengers a day, and that city and its surroundings lived on the railways. It's there today, not even 10, 15% of it. See how it's all ruined. And this city could still live because it's an important traffic corridor. But we from the party Change Croatia do not want to tell stories, but here are some solutions that need to be made, which we will insist on and will certainly spend when citizens give us confidence. So, remove the political managers from HH management. It will be the first thing we will do because there is never any happiness with them and then carry out restructuring as God commands and how serious countries do it. Immediately start investing in the main railway corridor of Rijeka-Zagreb, then Slavonski Brod-Vinkovci and the Serbian-Hungarian border. This will increase, these investments will increase GDP due to large employment, where does it come from? Here's the answer. I've said it countless times in this House, you see, no one's talking about it, it's hard to give a billion to restructure shipbuilding, two. But every year, this government and the previous government have given about 5 billion kunas more interest to the banks than was necessary and no one mentions it here, please. You see, the end will come, dear citizens, open your eyes, see that we have solutions, there are people and a party in Croatia who will know how to solve this problem. So it's not money and experts are not a problem. Therefore, rail transport is extremely important, crucial, electricity, reducing pollution, except for this main corridor, must be connected primarily to large centres, primarily Zagreb with these smaller cities around and much less, many more people will be driven by train, much less, cars, much less polluting, but for all of this, as you can see, they need new people and a new vision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134673	Thank you, too. We have one replica on your exhibit, and I'm sorry, we have two replicas, a colleague of Maras and a colleague of Kirin, and here's a colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134674	Thank you very much, Mr. Lovrinović, you have rightly assessed that our railways are not developing in the direction we would like, we are not using the opportunities that I would say, launched by the government in 2011 to 2015 at the time with Minister Hajdaš Doncic, when essentially the European funding that we are seeing is not going in the same way as we would like. So there's not a lot of directions in the Republic of Croatia that should be done, it would be dealt with with by one able-bodied management, with one vision that the government wants very quickly and I'm sorry that this dynamic isn't as continued as it was then. Because to solve the problem of the River of Hungary, to solve the problem of Zagreb to Dalmatia and to solve the problem to Serbia, i.e. Slovenia Serbia, that 3 directions and Croatia could have much, much more from the railway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134675	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134676	Col. Maras, when the Rijeka-Zagreb railway opened, then Rijeka was under Ugarska, Hungary considered Rijeka the second most important industrial centre in its country. And she, you see, did, she built the railroad line, built the railroad, why? To speed up the exploitation of the port and Croatia and everything. Now that we have our own country and we need to take advantage of our position to cooperate with others, we don't do what needs to be done. But I'm generally saying why isn't it working? Well, things are famous, the governments that have led Croatia for the last 20 years, they took care of Croatia at least. Therefore, the ruined railway is the best illustration of today's Croatia, slowly driving, expensive cost, everything is insecure, so it is Croatia in that picture.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134677	Thank you. Here you go, colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134678	Dear Vice-President, respected secretaries with associates, distinguished counterpart Lovrinovic. You're an economist, an economics professor, who knows very well that transporting goods is the cheapest sea and then a railroad. You spoke and mentioned, not directly 5B corridor from Rijeka to Budapest and gave great damage and error in steps, in strategy, that Rijeka did not, of course with our business... representatives declared or placed in a position to be the home port of some major world shipping ship from the Far East to Middle Eastern Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because the distance from Rijeka to Budapest is 500 km away, and from Piraeus, where most Chinese goods are now transported to Budapest is 1000 km away. Did we waste too much time, nonforging and building a low-level railroad and how much national damage is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134679	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134680	Dear fellow Kirin, time has not been wasted, but great damage has been done and it is clear that maritime river transport is the cheapest and see what the Slovenians have done. Well, they're not gonna say they've been kidnapped, they've simply rerouted a huge portion of the load towards the Kopar port, which has developed heavily over the past 20 years, and Rijeka and others down there, means Ploče, but above all, Rijeka, it's stagnated. Well, that all goes without saying, that what we have as a natural predisposition, as a competitive advantage, as what God is given is not deliberately exploited. It all says, there was no vision, no strategy why, so those people who led Croatia, so far it didn't matter, to watch what the interest of the Republic of Croatia was just important, to listen to what someone else said and to work for his interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134681	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Zeljko Lenart. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134682	Thank you, dear Vice President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. This law, which is in line with the EU directive, unfortunately, will not change anything in the condition of the Croatian railways, which are catastrophic, which are worse than 30 years ago, we drive where we drove for 50 minutes, an hour and a half. Security is at the lowest possible level. The burden travels slowly, but this law will be passed like any law and there will be no improvement. It is interesting, though, that the opposition MPs are mostly talking about this law and the bad situation and the situation of the Croatian Railways. Representatives of the ruling HDZ either have no opinion or must not say it, they do not want to criticise what they are aware of as all citizens that our Croatian railways are in a catastrophic bad state. I'd like to hear the criticism on their part, and then maybe we'd go some kind of change in those Croatian railroads. But it is clear to me that they unfortunately have no ideology, they have no beliefs but simply, they want to like their deity that they hold here in HS, whether it is Plenkovic, Jandrokovic or one of the lower deities they worship. During these 28 years, the HH collapsed by sharing itself with a series of companies that had hundreds and thousands of arrests, which did not know how to do their job and simply brought the railways into this state. Unfortunately, we have bad railroads today with seven operators. The one that no one can even control too much is private carriers. What condition are their locomotives in, what is their cars in, and what do they do to HH? So when you have railroads or anything, which is in bad shape and you traffic bad locomotives around it, they're rapidly going down, much faster than they'd go down if everything was as controlled as it used to be when HH was a unique company. Croatia's economy is collapsing due to the poor condition of Croatian railways. The colleagues are here, mentioned directions, Hungary-Rijeka, Zagreb-Dalmacija, Slovenia-Serbia. These are the directions that are very important for the Croatian economy, but also for the arrival of railways. As I studied 30 years ago, I drove 53 minutes from Kutina to Zagreb. Today I drive from Kutina to Zagreb for an hour and a half, if everything is in regular condition and if everything works normally. Today in Europe, normal speeds are over 300 km/h, Spain, France, Germany and other EU countries. The railways in Germany are also state-owned, where they have been liberalised, but in Germany 99% of the traffic is carried out by Deutsche Bahn. With us liberalising HH slowly loses the amount of transport they are doing. I see it on the rails every day because in the Box where I live, every day I cross a few times over the promenade and see what's going on across these Croatian railways and how fast it's going. I don't know why we left so many Croatian railways, or we're looking, like any foreign partner in Croatia, the owner who would take over and then manage so that today's government wouldn't have to worry about it. Well, believe me, no one without a great deal of interest is going to do that. Slowly, it is already groundless to talk about it, when you know that everything will simply be made during the vote, whether it is good or bad, but in these 28 years, it means that too many bad decisions have been made in HH which are simply in this state where they are and in the state of the Republic of Croatia which does not have enough resources to fix HH for a short time, we are still doomed to the traffic of these railways and to the economy that will have to suffer more expensive transport costs because our railways are bad. There's no one to blame for this because this has been happening too long. Whether it's random or intentional, I'm more sure that destroying HH is on purpose or at least because of the negligence of those who have managed these companies because it's been hard to find workers who will work on the track lately. The railway maintenance equipment is getting older and worse because simply because of invaluability is not worth getting newer equipment. How long will the HZ collapse go? Unfortunately, I can see that no one knows because there are no suggestions for better quality solutions. When you travel by train, and sometimes I can travel for Zagreb by train, I meet people who travel from Vinkovac, 4 hours to Zagreb, they are all unhappy with this situation of HZ, but unfortunately they are forced to use them because they have no alternative or no money. The railway used to be the cheapest way of passenger transport, but today it is very questionable whether it is because of its speed, but also because bus lines drive you practically from place to place you go. Today people are forced by this condition in HZ and organized and self-loathing by their own transports and where they turn out to be far cheaper than to use HZ. I appeal to the ruling, to be self-critical about HZ, because as the name Croatian says, they are ours, regardless of who, which political option belongs to and will be ours no matter what condition they will be in. And those who pay all that from their taxes that each citizen has to pay or VAT to pay, they are the ones who finance all the losses in HZ, and also because of all the failures that they have financed themselves, unfortunately, they must also suffer from the tax from this situation in HZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134683	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. He is his first colleague, Lovrinović, and after him, he is a colleague of Ronko. Here you go, colleague Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134684	Thank you, dear colleague Lenart, you have only further painted the poor and ruined state of Croatian railways, but if you have followed what I have said, I am interested in your opinion, as an optimist, as an economist and financier I say that within 2, 3 years the railway line from Rijeka to Zagreb can be built, that there is money, so here is an example. About EUR 5 billion was taken for Croatian roads and highways, the debt was also 15 years ago 5 billion before 10.5 and now 5 billion euros, so it is not being paid off. Only interest is paid, but so much interest was paid during that time unnecessarily that the Rijeka railway – Zagreb could only be financed by it. I am responsible for saying this as a financier and therefore it was not the purpose of building an independent developed Croatia, a country of prosperity, but of destroying and serving this servant politics. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134685	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134686	Well, dear colleague Lovrinović, here I have listened to you and your presentation and your solutions. Of course there's money, if there's so many billions to throw in the water, then there's billions to the railroad. However, how can we be in any hope that something will be invested in Croatian railways when you have not heard from the ruling ones any criticism about the poor condition of Croatian railways? Because in their eyes everything's cool, trains drive fast, they're all satisfied with why, because they don't use them, they don't use them. So my God, what they know about Croatian railways, we drive trains 40, 50 years old trains travel on Croatian railways, very rare are representatives from the ruling ones who sat on the train and came to the Croatian Parliament and normally do not know what happens on Croatian railways. And money if it's a political decision to do something will always be found. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134687	Thank you. Here you go, buddy Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134688	I can do the other one, so here's the thank you. counterpart Lenart is correct that they purposely destroyed Croatian railways. In 2008, when the crisis came and when Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor watched how to save somewhere, then the gentlemen who wanted to develop and protect their crime, who are sitting in these benches today, of course on the side, offered by the presidents, the prime minister's pardon, to shut down Croatian railways. One, one such example is the shutting down of the railroad of heroes, so the hero of the railway is the Pleternica – Caglin – Nashice, which is the only railway in the Homeland War, which has joined the east of Croatia and the rest of Croatia, I have to say no matter what, that we tried when the SDP Excuse me a second, when the SDP was in power [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That we've run [[Don't be angry.]] the restoration of this railway [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You can laugh, ma'am. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] But shame may be yours. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134689	Thank you, don't abuse time. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134690	Well, colleague Ronko, the state of the railroad is a mirror of the state, what kind of railways are in their condition, so is the state. Look at the French railways, look at Germany, look at the Spanish countries, just like their countries, as good as their railways. By removing railway lines, by shutting down, by closing down the rails simply at this time when rural space is becoming more empty because of the state of this country, any closure of any railway, whether it is rentable or inert, means an even stronger departure of the people from that area. It's mostly about the peasant population and rural areas, which simply remain unoccupied because children can't get to school, have no transportation, so here's what I said about the state of the railways is the state of the state, catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134691	Thank you. We'll continue our individual debate. Next up is colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134692	Dear ladies and gentlemen, when I was little then I watched documentary films on HRT chosen by Djelo Hadziselimović and, if I remember correctly, I watched trains in India, that was how people in India were driving trains and that was the picture where many people on the train and the train of course did not go quickly and I thought that Croatia was a developed country, and as India was underdeveloped, at least in my eyes it looked that way. Today, however, I read that in India, a train rides 180 km/h between New Delhi and Varanasia, and is built between Mumbai and Ahmedabad, a train that will drive 320 km/h. So one India that we consider a country of 3 worlds in terms of railroads is in front of us quantum distances, so to speak, light years away from us. And the biggest shame of Croatian railways is not that we spent money, I could understand that the state says look we give 1.5 billion subsidies to the railways, but because we do have railways that go 200 km/h, you're like in 2 hours from Zagreb to Split or 1.5 hours from Rijeka in an hour, then I'd say OK guys, OK all five. If we were to say from Zagreb to Županje for 1.5 hours railway or 2 would also say look if we should invest money to invest, it is important that we are well connected, it is important that we do not all have to live in Zagreb to be in Zagreb when we need it, I would like to live in nature and simply get on the train and be in Zagreb for an hour. That's how the system works in other countries, even a communist China that we once viewed as what an undeveloped agricultural land has experienced in the last 20, 30 years such a transformation that the days there are also flying by these super-fast trains. However, Croatia has remained in place, or I am lying, Croatia did not stay in place, where it was 30 years ago, but in 30 years and with billions spent, the state of our railway or infrastructure went not forward but backwards. So we're driving, he says, in his own time, my colleague Lukanic said that after modernization we drive 40% slower than we did 30 years ago. And the question arises, if 1.5 billion kuna goes a year, and that's big money, so the question is, if the situation in the railroads is getting worse, then where did that money go? Here are the HDZ gentlemen, I'm curious as to how it's possible that this money was spent and that the situation was worse than it was before, there. If there are simpler and simpler questions, unfortunately I believe that the way you treat railways is bad and I repeat I am not attacking you because the state spends billions on railways, I can understand that it had, look we have to have it, all five, it's like Zagreb makes a metro. I take off my hat, even if it costs, let it cost metro, but we have a situation to spend that kind of money, and to reverse, that is the problem of Croatia, that is the problem of Croatia. Your budget is even higher every year, and your inhabitants are getting smaller every year. And what my people say to you, it tells you that you're wrong somewhere, and it's the grumbling of the population that led to people not wanting to have children, they just don't see the future here. And by burying the Croatian state, its foundations are picturesquely speaking, you're drinking the branch you're sitting on, because one day we're already less than 4 million, I remember when I was a kid saying that I'm thinking 4, 4 million, and now there's less than 4, and it's clear so look how many average mothers are having children, look how many people are moving out, so you can add up two and two of us and you'll see how many of us will be in 10, 20, 30, 40 years. So are you thinking about it and everything you have, so who you're going to leave it to, who, what only HDZs are going to live in a country that's in person and then eventually, it's going to be that star war, it's going to be two HDZs at the end of those two currents, so which is the goal of your policy, I don't see. And in ideological terms HDZ leads the country in a direction that is also backward, the family should be the foundation of society, you don't protect the family, if no children don't close schools, look how close the school is. They're going to the polls there by, the polling stations are in schools, the schools are out of electricity, people with candles, with candles counting ballots there, because there are no kids. If there are no children and schools, if there are any passengers and then you say no passengers, then the lines are closed. This policy of yours will lead to the euthanasia of the state in fact. And in the end, the state as some glue will simply be activated in this mega-EU country you worship. The EU is your deity. And to make things even worse, the state gives more than 35 billion kuna a year on loan payments, that's the naked truth, that's how much we give the West, and the West gives us back the change, and that little they give you that you see goes away in a way that spends a lot, and people give a little. There is no future this country with this kind of management, but I don't blame it only on HDZ, that you don't think HDZ's horn is responsible for everything, the SDP has led the same policy in both railways and shipbuilding and tax policy. Here I have personally handed over amendments to the Fiscalization Act that at markets and fairs do not have to issue fiscal accounts, and it is no longer those who work under the clear skies or people who sell corn on the street that don't have to have fiscal cash, it was my proposal, but I know that this government will reject it when it comes to the agenda, because you are simply separated from reality, you, you are looking well at yourself, you are as my colleague Lovrinović said, you are not driving the railways and you are great, everything is great to you. And the result of this separation from reality or some kind of parallel reality in which the average HDZ is living and the average Croat has led us to the fact that a country like the train on the slope where the brakes have cancelled is rolling into ruin, and you are talking about a bright and bright future, Plenkovic already sees people coming back, etc. It is, it is grief, but the only thing that gives me hope for a better tomorrow and what actually gives me one joy is to see that there is still hope for the Republic, when I see the elderly parents of Gabriela Žalac driving and at least, if anything else, at least there will be a bright future in front of the pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134693	Thank you, too. On your show we have 3 replicas, colleague Kirin, colleague Maras and colleague Misic, please welcome colleague Kirin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134694	Dear Representative Pernar, you mentioned the difference in the development of the Republic of Croatia and India, you should have been informed, you should know that it is no wonder that India has such fast railways because India is one of the world powers in the area of economy and science. Don't judge India by the foundation of sacred cows, even in America there are poor people who are homeless.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134695	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134696	Dear Sir, I agree with you, I have no prejudice towards India, but I have prejudice or some negative attitudes towards my own country and I see that my country is going back to India and about solar energy and on the issue of here's the situation in the rail system and in fact, in general, I wonder if we are dumber than the Indians or simply we have HDZ in power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134697	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134698	Thank you very much. Comrade Pernar, you said one fact, unfortunately, that there is no investment in railways, the modernisation of railways in a way that we would all like to do so together and not use EU funds to a sufficient extent, so the Republic still has a negative balance regardless of what the membership fee might be less than what we're withdrawing, but when we see everything we import into the Republic with that money, then it's a negative balance, unfortunately. 7-8 times, the Republic of Croatia should withdraw more funding than it pays membership fees, which is at EUR 3 to 4 billion per year in order to be positive, the HDZ government does not do so. And you've noticed a really interesting fact when the traffic for citizens doesn't work, in transport for the Minister's family the Zhalac does, so her mom doesn't have one Mercedes, but she has 3 cars available, now the question is, Really? [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] He believes in citizens more. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134699	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134700	So here's my dear colleague Maras, when I see, I say again, these elderly parents of Gabriela Žalac having a nice rolling stock, I came in fact, and on the other hand I'm looking at the state of the railway as it is, I have the impression that the HDZ's parents will have a nicer rolling stock, that on the other hand, the situation in the railways will be getting worse and I wonder if Mr. Maras are the two processes connected or is one cause to another? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134701	And the last replica of your presentation, colleague Ivica Misic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134702	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pernar, I would have watched all the governments by now if they hadn't done, the truth, nothing, nothing for the railroad. Looking at how much money has been thrown away, you know that this government has encountered all the problems of Agrokor, Petrochemy, INA, today the oil company that we've thrown billions into, and we haven't thrown it into the railroad, and we've been throwing it somewhere, into some hole without a bottom where we don't know how it's been spent. And this government also got that Oil on its back that's to be solved tomorrow. I personally think and see that we have a surplus, that we don't borrow and we don't spend what's borrowed, it's easy to take credit, and we need to get it back. This government is trying to solve certain problems through profit, and I hope that if certain things are put in place, so far, the truth, we have not put any government, no Racanov, no other, no HDZ so far, what they should have done on the railroad. Of course you need to make a line I. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134703	Time. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134704	... Mr. Respected that the government has encountered many problems, so you mentioned the problem of Agrokor, however, the question is who actually created this Agrokor, who created Ivica Todorovic, who gave him everything he had at one point? [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, you say the government's got problems with the INA, and yet the question is, who created problems with the INA? Who handed over the management rights to the INA to the Hungarians even though the Hungarians have less than 50% of the shares? That's a question Mr. Dear Mouse, which each of us should ask. You mention the state of shipbuilding, I'll tell you only one thing, Russia is developing a civilian plane MC-21 that will be a pandan to Boeing and Erbas and the development of that plane to you actually, they managed to develop that plane for the same money. The ones we've been pounding [[Intruder: Thank you...]] in shipbuilding. [[Intruder:...you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134705	Thank you, colleague Pernar. That's what we're done with the individual debates. Before finishing on behalf of the SDP and Gordan Maras Club, allow me to welcome students and students of the Konjscino High School and their professors and teachers who have joined us. Welcome! Good afternoon and welcome! ... Comrade Maras, come in. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134706	Thank you very much. Fellow colleagues and colleagues, respected students, I am glad that you visited us here today in HS and that you feel little of this atmosphere and the topic that is really important for the Republic of Croatia, it is about the railways, it is about investing in infrastructure, it is about the fact that parts of the Republic of Croatia are connected in that way, in which we want it and in which one day, we connected the road RH, connecting Zagreb with Dalmatia and turning that dream that people had for years, to come into another part of Croatia, we did so with road construction, with a project that started in 2002, which started the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan and now we want to move on. We want to step into the railway, we want to allow that from Zagreb or the northern part of Croatia, to Split comes with the railway, in a few hours, maybe to people and to... They travel cheaper, travel faster, make Croatia more efficient and benefit from it and, ultimately, use the funds available from the EU, which unfortunately this government does not use to a sufficient extent. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we see projects standing, when we see the priorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is not a problem to pass the Law on the financing of political parties in 2 days, so that HDZ spends 4 million kunas, instead of a million for European elections, that is not the problem. But the problem is to realise EU funds and connect Rijeka to Hungary or Zagreb with Split or Zagreb with Vukovar Srijem County. Well, isn't it a shame that the Republic of Croatia is now in a situation where it is slower to travel from Zagreb to Vukovar City and Osijek than it was 28 years ago? We unfortunately stopped in time, HDZ stopped us in time and instead of using the opportunities Europe provides, which enables us to mobility our people, that the railways are using more and more. So when you get to one China, that's where people travel between cities, hundreds of miles, five hundred kilometers, don't take a plane ticket, go to the railways. It's cheaper, it's easier to use them after all. And instead of taking those technologies, instead of hiring all the brains, we develop projects, that from Zagreb to Split comes practically at 1.5 hours or 2 hours maximum we did nothing. As a Dalmatian son-in-law, it would be interesting, in this way my children, perhaps, could go to Dalmatia with their grandparents, if we had the opportunity, not just me, but all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to get to Dalmatia at 2 o'clock, and that can be, just needing to know. Unfortunately at this point, I don't see it, nor that the government of the Republic of Croatia is doing anything about it. And finally, we have the possibility, we have the money, we have the knowledge, we have the need of people, people would certainly use more railways, if they were as they say, up they would, and if they would allow our people to travel, to travel in the way everyone travels to the EU, who travel to Germany, who travel to Belgium, the Netherlands, who travel to France, all of those countries, Italy, all these countries have railways, where the average travel to passenger transport, is far higher by the number of people who use it, than for example buses, what is air transport, etc. I'm sorry to see our students, who have to drive to Split for 3-4 hours, have infrastructure, come home more often and spend more time with their families. But you need to be willing to do that, and you need to have knowledge. And that's what we need to do in Croatia and that's what I call on HDZ to make a common consensus, to make in Croatia the rail infrastructure our citizens deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134707	Thank you, fellow Marasu. Afterwards, on behalf of the Living Wall Representatives Club and SNAGA colleague Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134708	Dear ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the state of the fleet is not bad everywhere in Croatia, there are families in various parties, whose state of the fleet is getting better from year to year. Here, that it can be in the late years, i.e. at an older age, and live well in Croatia, contrary to all these black forecasts that we speak of from the Living Wall, the parents of Gabriela Žalac, who drive a very nice car, i.e., have a very nice car, and that means that in fact that all this story when we say that pensioners in Croatia live badly, it's not really true. Look at the parents of Gabriele the Grief as they live. Well, you can see the pensioners are great. However, it is unclear if even for pensioners there is so much money, then the situation in the railroad is so bad. Or to simplify, whether the state of the country is similar to that of any society in which the minority exploits the majority and while the minority is actually profiting more and more, while the minority is getting richer and more and more, it's a state for the majority worse and worse. HDZ lords of social property in a bad way, the situation in the railways is a witness, you see that it's worse than it was 30 years ago and billions have been spent and that's that vicious circle. So traffic to railways falls, and logically, there is no point in investing in infrastructure, and since it does not invest in infrastructure additionally the traffic of passengers falls because the simple path is slower, so if the railways were to travel faster than by bus, people would drive by rail, but unfortunately, the railway is much slower, look only at the example of Zagreb to Split and simply people do not want to drive by rail. And this way of managing the railways as the government has, will lead to long paths, meaning, and to the collapse of the final railroad, meaning, until further degradation of the infrastructure and further downfall of passengers, and what is the biggest tragedy is that billions will be spent, but I doubt they will go where they should, I already believe they will go into the pockets of people who have simply mastered the state institutions. And I wouldn't be surprised if the families of directors in HZ were driving in Mercedes, I wouldn't be surprised that the parents of Gabriela Žalac are not the only ones showing the independence for expensive vehicles, I believe that there are many other HDZ pensioners or who have HDZ children in these state-owned enterprises, that they also drive beautiful vehicles, but the Croatian people ask themselves, and if you continue to support this policy, whether you actually support your own failure, whether by your choice for HDZ or by not to allow one party to get power and then manage the state or state property as your own property for your own account and your own interest. Croatian peoples wake up, open their eyes, stop believing those who lie to you, those who said they would not close the refinery in Sisak, or allow it to be closed, and eventually they allowed those who said they would save the shipyards, so they eventually pushed them into bankruptcy, those who say they run the railways well, and the situation is getting worse, the passengers are getting longer and longer. And finally, this is a question of existence, the survival of our people if this policy continues our people will disappear from this space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134709	Thank you. The next fellow Shuker on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club is final, please welcome fellow Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Apparently, this assembly speaker has become a stage for the euro election campaign. However, some are unfortunately blind both in the eyes and not seen, so today in the Republic of Croatia we are discussing who started building the highway. We all forgot the beginning of the Maslenica, the grenades that fell and whose idea it was. Good luck, so all the political options in the Republic of Croatia were aware that highways are one of the basic infrastructure projects if we want to develop what the Croatian economy is holding today, that is tourism and that is the fact that we need to say here, not invent what is who or how it started. However, today, honestly, I expected colleagues to discuss from other clubs and, individually, more what it is, and this is the measure and proposal of this, the legislative proposal that the ministry has made. This today, what some clubs and individuals want to discuss about railways, that's when this topic is being discussed when the state budget is being passed, only then can it be debated, then you have to have the courage to say, not in this position there won't be that much money, from that position we'll reroute the money towards HZ because only if you have money you can do some things. However, the only club since he was a representative at HS counterpart Linic, the only club that has discussed railways in such a way for all these 20 years, is the HDZ Club, and you will see that no parliamentary debate on the budget has passed without mentioning the HZ problem, therefore, the structural problem of HZ. We can't tell HZ that... For all her problems, all sorts of things, so to speak, the new values of the railways that once had one value, today because the Republic of Croatia is an independent state have a completely different value. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] To talk about the Zagreb-Split railway, not to remember that the shortest line and the fastest line so-called Una railway is simply a glare in front of facts, if you stare at facts, then you can't even offer a quality solution, and unfortunately we are here on a subject that is very important, we are politically shooting and hitting. You have one project that was launched 30 years ago, this city railway Long Village-Zagreb, which proved to be extremely effective and today instead of discussing that such a project should be headed towards Velika Gorica and Sisak, that this Zagorje area towards Zapresic should also be considered serious. However, no one today will say that a 530m kuna railway project has been launched in the term of the government. He might have spoken a little bit more strongly, but the chairman was then a minister of traffic, but I have to answer since my colleague Maras spoke on behalf of the SDP Club finally, you remember only how many times we've looked for breaks in the name of clubs and how many times we've discussed why we can't conduct the competition, which is the problem that the supply buildings can't participate in the construction of the long-term Selo-Križevci railway, but these are our problems, these are neither the HDZ problems nor the SDP, nor the MOST, nor the IDS, nor anyone, they're the structural problems of HZ and they're politically hitting on this subject today, not to look at the real problem of HZ, unfortunately, HZ will be in the problems in which they are, so someone thought before 6 years ago. or the 7th time he took 20, actually 40 limes from, not 20 limes from Croatian highways and directed them towards HZ that will thus solve HZ's problem. Every year instead of HAC, the 20 lips we pay, all the citizens of the economy when we buy a liter of gasoline or diesel heading towards HH, but has anything changed? It's not. Why? Because railways need structural changes and that's the key thing, because that's what this law says among other things. It is a project that was done with the World Bank, this year is 25 years of cooperation between Croatia and the World Bank, one of the key projects on which the World Bank suggests is a reform of the Croatian railway, a structural reform of the Croatian railway. And if we accept it and find the funds, one part of the EU funds, and something from domestic sources, then we'll be able to say that we'll do something about it. The insistence on some lines that have no market value is to insist on a growing and larger balance and a minus of Croatian railways. The second thing, colleagues and colleagues would recommend to all those who do not watch Croatian railways when a budget is brought in a report on the protested guarantees to see how much Croatian railways cost Croatian taxpayers every year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134711	Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOSTA Independent Lists, final colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134712	Thank you very much, here's after my colleague Shucker I don't know what to say, just who to live in two different states. So here is a few days ago, 19th of this month, Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission says, it is late with a EUR 241 million project financed by EU funds Koprivnica – Crosses construction of the railway line, and Croatia could be left without that funding. Whoever's responsible for this, who's responsible, so the railroad doesn't have it, so it's not the Miro Bulj River, it's not the river here from the assembly, it's the person responsible for the transport of the European Commission. That we're going to lose EUR 241 million. Also, according to the 2017 report of 913 million contracted funds for the construction of the railway, 67 million EUR's rail infrastructure is paid, and it's justified from us 56 million euros so far, which means several percent of the EU funds contracted, and we always boast how much we agreed on it, and now we have a much harder period, because from cohesion funds there will be fewer funds, this more funds will be from the state budget for a number of projects because it is going towards shutting down cohesion funds, we need to know that, and that's balancing funds, and Croatia is at this point at the bottom with Malta together, at the bottom of withdrawing funds from EU funds. And that is the fact, so says the Croatian revision, the state audit that we are at the bottom of the EU fund population. I just don't know my colleague Shuker if you're aware that he goes from Split to Zagreb 7 hours if you have, 6 to 7 hours every year more traveling by train, every year more and if you're lucky, every 3, 4 to 5 days you have to buy a train ticket and travel by bus and buy a bus. So you're saying unreal things and cheating on the public because it's not so real. We have a good law here, we implement this law of property of the EU on railways, that's the subject. We have the best law we will bring fellow parliamentary representatives, and what is in reality, here are colleagues from Istria talking about this problem, colleagues from the HNS, your coalition partner. My colleagues from the SDP, I would ask you not to be nervous, I would just say the facts that the Commissioner of the European Commission said, and you can't deceive that people, you can't deceive the government's meetings in Split, Osijek, to call on a number of projects when we know it, the people know it's a pre-election campaign now, because you here will boast, you, secretary, will all praise you, Prime Minister, with your friends with Juncker, Tusk, Tajania otherwise fascist, so that in good relations you will solve everything. You won't solve anything because of this only you have these promises, I can talk about the traffic outside traffic here's the connection of the Cetin area with a long field on the highway, so for years they promise, the cornerstones are placed in Dalmatia each, every election cycle, and this time I'll buy that one, there's a rock down in Zagor I'll put everything on your projects promised rock foundation just to start working, it's promised to the government in Split, it's promised during Sanader while you were minister, so it opens up by colleague Bačić, Ratva – Drvenik tunnel opened, he says guilty is SDP, I don't know who't guilty but building the tunnel was started, officially on traffic sites. So, let's say in Dalmatian Zagora, these are project delusions, pre-election projects, the only thing that we have down those days as much as in Lika when these elections were, I said that there were more ministers behind each beech had flown out and our president of the assembly, it was drinking songs, patriotism, you couldn't get past Licoma, but go to Lika now, so you'll see there were more ministers than residents. This will happen now in the elections, but we, as parliamentary representatives, must not allow it, that the government, no matter what government it is, should deceive these people. So several times it was returned, on these governments of Dračevac, giving the city, giving, opening countless projects, how many cornerstones were set, how much insurance there was, how much had been eaten and drank, how many lambs had gone there, so they could make a road so far only how many times have been spent on food and drink costs, how many lambs and their mothers had eaten. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134713	And on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Tomislav Mihotic, please. Please Secretary of State, please, thank you, fellow thank you Please. [[Stupid: A fellow Shucker is yelling at me.]] Excuse me, Mr. Mihotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134714	Dear MPs and MPs thank you again for a constructive debate in most parts. We are all aware of the current situation in the railway sector of the Republic of Croatia, and we are also aware that we are also in urgent need of changes. The railway law is just the first step towards the goal we want to achieve. We want to improve the quality and efficiency of passenger and freight transport to the railways in order to strengthen the competitiveness of rail transport compared to other modes of transport. The proposed Law creates a legislative framework for equal, transparent and non-discriminatory access to rail infrastructure, opens competition and services of domestic passenger transport through the introduction of free access rights and eventually creates a framework for the adoption of the Strategy for the Development of the Railway System in the Republic of Croatia, which should ultimately be in line with the long-term objectives of the development of the Republic of Croatia's economy. Now he would refer to the questions and the comments that were made during the debate. Normally in the past, we're all aware of it, the project, the priority in building infrastructure was building highways. Croatia built over 90, almost 95% of its highway network, the planned highway network. In the next period, the priority of the Republic of Croatia is building railway infrastructure, around EUR 1.3 billion has been available so far, spent, spent, intended for transport. Through the CEFs we have agreed an additional EUR 360 million, of which 300 million waste on the Križevci-Koprivnica railway line, further the Hungarian border, which today was also the case. It should be pointed out that there is a tender for this railway line now under way, so a call for realization is being held, for the start of the realisation of that railway line, and we are sure that these funds will not fail, after all, and we have not received any official evidence of that. There were also agreed and started projects Zaprešić-Zabok, Vinkovci-Vukovar amounting to around EUR 70 million. The following year it starts with the construction of the Croatia Leskovac-Karlovac railway estimated value of EUR 350 million, and the next Operational Programme provides for construction of the long-term Selo-Novska railway with a value of EUR 570 million. All these projects will significantly improve the state of railway infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia, so the goal is to establish conditions on the railway line from Rijeka via Zagreb to the Hungarian border, and on the line that goes from Ljubljana through Croatian territory through Zagreb to Belgrade, that the railway is fully electrified with two parallel lanes and an average speed of 160km per hour, these are the goals that will fully integrate Croatian territory, normally to go and prepare for the realisation and parts of the railways that need to be facing Istria and Dalmatia, which is planned by the Ministry of Transport. Istria is in no way neglected, it is witnessed that a new phase of construction of the Istrian Ipsilon, which is also worth EUR 150 million, is being started, and a second tube of tunnels is being planned in parallel through the Učka, road tunnel. So parallel with this through all these strategic documents that are scheduled, the integration of Istria into the rest of Croatian territory will be seen. As regards the situation itself with the entire railway sector, in 2015, EUR 160 million was provided from the IBRD for restructuring the entire sector, and it is now under way, so that all problems in the carg sector, passenger transport, continue to be resolved normally, and that in 2015 nearly a billion kunas were written off the debt of carg towards HZ infrastructure, normally when the whole system was established that this debt would not occur. As for a meeting of the Government in Split, which has several times been apostrophe as something di, I should just say, confirm, that, based on these meetings of the Government, all the activities that are scheduled there are realised, and the evidence of this is also a tender and competition that is now being held for the fast road from Split to Omis, there is a tender for the bridge across Cetina, a merger tunnel on the existing road network. I think it is important once again to mention that, based on the Strategy for the development of the railway system and the National Roadmap for the development of railway infrastructure, the Ministry plans and the conclusion of a multi-annual contract with HZ infrastructures, which we want to better regulate relations in the construction and modernisation of rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, the legislative framework is just the beginning, the foundation, the basis, which should be accompanied by adequate funding for plans and programmes that will result from legislative and strategic proposals. So, surely this Law creates assumptions for the better and more efficient implementation of all projects, as well as the establishment of a better system throughout the railway sector. Thank you. And I must add that the amendment of the Legislative Committee was adopted today in the cabinet session, so it could be an integral part of this material. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134715	Thank you. We have six replicas on your exhibit. First, her first colleague, Cikotic, followed by her colleague, Peric. Here you go, colleague Chikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134716	Dear Secretary of State, you have not answered my question concerning the closure of the Operational Programme 2007-2013, OP Prometheus, when you plan to close the Programme, given that only EUR 196 million has been agreed from the Report submitted to the Assembly and to the Committee of Regional Development and European Funds. So we already have a 40 million-euro hole in our contracted assets, and this one, I'm curious to know, after all the illegalities and corrections that will be determined, how much will end up being the same?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134717	Can I have your answer? No, I don't. Comrade Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134718	Dear Mr Mihotić and dear colleagues, I would like to point out what you have now said in the final word, which is that the railway is towards the south, and here I speak primarily of my city of Zadar, which is, in its own time, cut off from rail traffic, and we know what it means for the development of traffic in Gazenica, our economic zones. So all that needs to be emphasized is that actually the Una Strip which is the biggest problem, and that is the regulation of interstate relations, repair and repair of complete infrastructure is very important and yes, this is actually the law that makes it Gives an assumption of something like that. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134719	Thank you. There's another colleague, Daus, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I listened to Podravina, Zagorje, Slavonia, Central Republic, Long Village, Novska, everything is fine, of course that Rijeka-Zagreb and international Ljubljana-Zagreb-Belgrade, it all stands, then Istria comes to plan and start mentioning road story, today is not a theme road, but a railway, we know very well that it is built by Ipsilo and we know that we are waiting for almost 40 years. And the second tube of Ucko tunnel, that's not the topic. The topic was my question was whether strategic documents planned the railway in Istria because the strategic document is the basis of any construction in the future and I think it was a very simple question and I expect the correct answer from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134721	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134722	I said that this law is a presumption for the creation of strategic documents, around them will be held public debate, we certainly count on connecting Istria to the rail network of the Republic of Croatia and doing studies also on the possibility of connecting the tunnel through Učka because it is probably the only solution that would then bring those two parts of the network together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134723	Thank you. There's a fellow Bull next, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134724	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, in this final address, you did not answer my question whether what the Deputy Director-General for Transport of the European Commission said was true to be late with the project 240 million EUR Koprivnica-Križevci, building infrastructure and so that it could remain without these financial resources, you did not answer that question, that is a very important question, that is the amount of about two billion kuna, and we also have a bad and catastrophic railway, because the Republic of Croatia has given state guarantees 12.64 billion kuna, and from 2006 to 2015. 8.7 billion subsidies and support has been given to HZ. Who's going to justify that, talk about it, where's that money, who's got the mustache?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134725	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134726	We don't know about the statement, so I can't speculate on it officially, she hasn't come. But on the other hand, a tender for the railway was launched, I said, the competition is called, you know, the tender procedure itself, when the questions and extensions of the deadline come, but we, like the other projects, are going to stage this project and realize these resources.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134727	Thank you very much. Next up, fellow Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134728	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, it's good that in your final address you've come up with certain financial indicators because all the talk about railways if you're not going to talk about the funds, the source of the funds and the strategy that you're going to develop in the direction and what traffic lines you're going to be developing are the cast of the fog because if you're going to force something that's going to be invaluable tomorrow, it's something that's going to hang on the state budget tomorrow. So, it's good to go out with certain financial indicators, and it's good that you said to HZ in relation to some previous times that some new models and ways of funding are opening up, and now it's up to HZ's administration to carry it out operationally, it's not the Ministry, it's HZ that does projects, and it's those projects that offer the conditions to finance it. And that's why I'm saying, maybe with topics like this, it's very important to point out that Is there no solution without it? [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134729	...college Shucker, thank you. And the last replica of my colleague Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134730	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, today's debate has repeatedly pointed out that as far as the railway sector is concerned, in terms of its situation, it is a supersede issue. I would ask you if you now have specific data, and everything to raise awareness of what we all do together, I believe it would be useful to do an analysis based on concrete data, what the situation in the railway sector was until the '90s, what it is today for the reason that, in the end, Mr Schucker mentioned twice that this is not a one-year budget issue, but that, as far as the railway sector is concerned, it is a strategic issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134731	Thank you. This is what we concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z. No. In 555, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134732	Final proposal of the Law on Railways, second reading, P.Z. No. 555. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. During the debate, the applicant's representative accepted the above amendment and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law on Railways, please vote. I find that most of the votes 80 FOR and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134733	Before we move to the next item of the agenda, welcome representatives and representatives of the Association for Down Syndrome from Zagreb. Welcome to HS! ... Honorable representatives and representatives, in accordance with Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 247. [[Applause]] I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure that we conduct a joint discussion on the next two points, which was agreed by the presidents of the Committee on Legislatives, Jelkovac and the chairman of the Justice Committee, Mr Miljanic. So this is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 599 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z. Number 600 Do you agree with this proposal? Okay. Your silence also means approval. So, we have a united debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society, first reading of P.Z.E. No 55 and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, first reading, P.Z. Number 600. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law apply when discussing these points of the agenda. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Mr Drazen Bosnjakovic is with us today, and I call on him to give an additional explanation on behalf of the applicant. Here you go, Mr. Bosnjakovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134734	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs, so there are two proposals for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register. As for one law and another, I could actually realize that we have three basic goals. First, it is necessary to speed up the establishment and registration of companies in the Republic of Croatia, limited liability companies and a simple limited liability company. The second goal is of course to reduce and costs related to this establishment and to make the procedure not only faster but that it can be done without assistance, without the participation of public notaries, without the participation of those bodies who actually raise the costs a little bit in the whole procedure, to make it easier and faster. It is also important here to say that here we are also implementing certain European directives relating to the rights of shareholders in stock companies in order to make business as transparent as possible and ultimately to make them more involved in the decision-making process. So as far as the Company Act on Commercial Companies is concerned, we propose the establishment of a limited liability company and a simple limited liability company entirely on a distance on a distance line, and before entering a company in a court register, this is equally important each founder will have to pay at least 1/4 of his stake to take over the business part, with the total amount of all payments in the money being less than 1/4 of the underlying capital. In fact, the underlying capital is a minimum of 20,000 kuna, and in practice it has been quite often a problem for someone insurmountable, to reach these 20,000 kunas and to pay them into a temporary account and to start a company. Here we reduce these criteria and say of these 20,000 kuna which is minimum 1/4 must be paid, and this remaining part within a year of the day of enrolment in the court register. And in that time, they will actually be held accountable to some kind of personal property for the obligations of society, and we believe that it will enable those who can't actually reach that amount to enable them to establish this company. Also a simple limited-responsibility society today will be able to establish 5 members, it is currently regulated such that it can do 3. However, this is how we extend the possibility that 5 and 5 partners can establish a simple limited-responsibility society. Also, by law we open up opportunities, we actually prescribe the abandonment of the obligation to determine the subject-matter of a social contract which allows for cheaper and faster registration of the activities that the company deals with. This is also extremely important because today, when a proposal is submitted for the registration and registration of a company must be decided to the number of business subjects, these business subjects are certain by national classification of activities, some are defined by specific laws that regulate each area, and then the third are actually some mixed variant where a specific definition which would be registered is actually sought. And it's all listed in the register. In this way, we will avoid this formalisation and in fact each will make one list of activities that will be in the auxiliary register at the Trade Court and when it is carried out and when someone wants to change the activity, they will only decide to amend that list and it will be faster and simpler. Now we have a situation when a proposal for establishment and a social contract is submitted that in two, three pages are written business subjects, because everyone wants to be sure that they might be dealing with both this and that and so they don't come into a position to actually change the solution to the establishment of a company, which again requires new costs, we're this, we're proposing this kind of one, one solution that will certainly speed up, simplify, and also a cheaper process. Here, by amending this law, we also lift the obligation to deposit signatures. In fact, we've seen this in principle that actually in court we're running a deposited signature, and it doesn't make any sense, because the use of it today is possible in completely different ways, and we didn't actually come to this situation that someone is looking for a deposited signature to check something out in court. So we will also relieve the court and the founders of the companies. This law also introduces electronic communication with the court register, where public notebooks will participate, lawyers, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which, of course, is extremely important throughout the process. We are erasing both the provision and the shape of the individual trader because there are only 10 individuals registered in the Republic of Croatia today and we think it is unnecessary, therefore such a person will actually operate according to the rules of crafts. Also, what is very important is that we propose a easier exit from the market, by prescribing the procedure for simpler, faster and cheaper liquidation of the company's capital, erasure without liquidation, because whoever has no debt, he will make a statement that there is no debt and will be deleted by the company's decision from the register and two years after that erasure he will be in charge of his personal property, therefore, for the obligations of the company which if there is a situation that did not specify them. Also, the draft proposal for this company law, as we have said, transposes the provisions of Directive 2917/828 into the Croatian legal system and also amends Directive 2007/36 as regards the promotion of long-term participation of shareholders. Therefore, we are implementing the Directive and amending the Directive and we want to facilitate this implementation by facilitating the exercise of the rights of shareholders of companies whose shares are listed for trading on a regulated market in a way that sets out specific requirements with a view to fostering long-term participation of shareholders and increasing transparency. Those requirements shall apply to the reception of members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board as the Supervisory Board determines the policy of reception of members of the administration approved by the General Assembly and which shall be made public. The results of the management members will be assessed by applying financial and non-financial criteria for results, including where appropriate, environmental, social and management factors. The Management Board and the Supervisory Board shall draw up a report once a year on all receipts paid by the company to the members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board during the last financial year if it is examined by the auditor and approved by the General Assembly. We believe that this is an extremely important provision because today these receptions and administrations and supervisory committees, the various bonuses that are being achieved are well below the stockholders' radar, are well below the radar and the main assembly and implementation of this Directive we are actually opening this up to insight and shareholders, which is also very important. In addition, establishing the identity of shareholders and facilitating the exercise of the rights of shareholders, it shall be ensured that companies have the opportunity to establish and identify their shareholders and obtain information on the identity of shareholders from each intermediary in the chain holding the information, as well as to process the shareholder's personal data in order to achieve its rights and cooperation with shareholders. Transparency for institutional investors and property managers is also important. Both institutional investors and asset managers are obliged to develop and publicly publish a policy on the participation of shareholders or must explain why they decided not to do so. Also very important, transactions between related persons, those significant transactions between related persons, that is a job whose value is either on its own or along with other transactions in the last 12 months, before business takes place, exceeds 2.5% of the sum of long-term and short-term assets determined by the latest annual financial report must be submitted for approval of the Supervisory Board and publicly published. So, and here transparency is extremely important, and I think that the data that today's shareholders don't have, about which shareholders actually have no knowledge, in this way we make them actually public and available shareholders. Here, after this Act amending and supplementing the commercial law, it is bound and amended and supplemented by the Law on the Court Register, because amendments to the Law on the Court Register are proposed to refresh and facilitate the establishment of a society with limited liability and a simple society with limited liability, we introduce these two forms through the application of an e-basement related to the start system and we believe that it is possible to do so in a very short time. The aim here is to establish a company without the participation of a public notary and with minimum costs. Here it is extremely important in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy we want to enable in fact as fast as possible entry into the world of work, into the business world because the establishment of a company is only one step in the whole chain, then there is a whole series of activities that need to be taken and get a statistical number and apply to the Tax Administration and actually apply to HZZO, HZMO. With this system, we will allow it to go on the line and make everything digital, significantly shorten in this law the deadlines for making decisions regarding enrolment in the court register and we think that this is a significant step in our regulatory framework so that companies can start faster, we can start with as little cost as possible, and in this way I think that we will be more competitive, that we will be in some way more attractive to investors. Here, we propose this law, please support it in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134735	Thank you, too. On your show we have 3 replicas, a colleague of Makar, a colleague of Maras and a colleague of Nada Turina Đurić, so she is the first colleague of Makar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134736	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Well, dear ministers, of all the relief of business to our entrepreneurs who pass this bill, I would refer to this notion of an individual trader being abolished by this law. It really wasn't too logical that according to the Law on Commercial Society, the craftsman operates by all the laws of profit tax, and must be entered in the court register and amend all documents only because he is no longer a craft, but he himself writes in the organisational form of a trader individual. However, it would have had one particular question, if the craftsman had crossed 15 million transactions in business for 2018. This statement, the financial documentation submitted in March, is he obliged to act since this law has not yet entered into force in accordance with the previous law or simply to ignore it since it had to be login because it had [[Intruder: Thank you...]] other obligations that... [[Intruder:...you, time]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134737	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134738	The law has not yet entered into force, and we are predicting the entry into force of this 1.9 law because we need to secure the infrastructure for it to take effect. So until this law comes into force, he's bound by the old man.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134739	A colleague of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134740	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleague from the ministry, what is the problem in the Republic of Croatia is the chronic, chronic incompetence of the entire system and the judicial but unfortunately when we start companies we cannot compete with other EU countries. Unfortunately, the Republic of Croatia has fallen dramatically over the last three years in terms of the competitiveness of companies. Tell me what you are specifically and what you are still thinking of doing in order for the level of competitiveness of our companies to be at the level of those from Slovenia, I'm not talking about Germany, I'm not talking about France, I'm not talking about very rich, developed countries, I'm talking about Slovenia. What makes Slovenia 30 places better than us, why our government cannot make our legislation a more competitive form? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134741	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134742	Comrade Maras, as I said in cooperation with the Ministry of Economy, we are working on a project so to begin. This is just one step in this whole series where we're going to allow faster entry into the business world, this is just the first step when you're starting on a commercial society, a limited-responsibility society, and it's now made possible by this law in digital technology, without leaving the notebook, without some of these other things, it can be done from its office. After that, and these other steps that are, which I mentioned here, will also be possible in digital technology. In addition, we are carrying out other reforms and tax reforms and we have reforms in the judiciary that will somehow enable better business and better contact with judicial authorities. So the whole series is actually these legal changes that go hand in hand to the businessmen and entrepreneurs who will actually act faster and that we will actually deprive some of the costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134743	Thank you and replica number 3 of counterparts Nada Turina-Đuric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134744	Thank you very much, so one very practical and simple question, it is commendable that everything we do to facilitate our entrepreneurs and speed up the business or the opening of a company or their business at all. But here's a very specific example that I happen to know recently. So if you need a copy of the court register about your company, you can find it on the so-called. The website e-Citizens, however, what is the problem, that same document you print on that page is not valid for you in the MUP unless it has been approved by the Trade Court. Now, I'd like you to explain to me first, how it means that through the pin that you get some document that no one else as a fresh document other than you who have a pin can get, how that document doesn't apply on the MIP counter when you have to hand over that document to highlight the credibility of your company.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134745	Thank you, time. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134746	Thank you very much, that excerpt equally when you lift a piece of land books that actually has the strength of the document will simply have to be worth this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134747	Thank you. Whether the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor, counterpart Jelkovac, chairman of the Committee on Legislatives and counterpart Milenić, chairman of the Committee on Justice, if I do not open the debate. So we're starting with clubs, first on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Zarko Tušek. Here you go, Comrade Tušek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134748	The Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, State Secretary, the whole team, respected colleagues and colleagues, the basic framework for amending and supplementing these two laws means the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register, along with the European Parliament and Council Directive 2006/06. The Services Directive is a national programme for the reform of the current Government in 2017, which clearly states that the procedure for the establishment of a society, i.e. the exercise of the right of establishment must be made electronically available without paper, stamp and public notation certificates, in short administratively simplified at all levels. We all understand that we live in a time in which all countries, all economies, are facing a series of different challenges of innovative approaches in achieving as much as possible better levels of competitiveness of the economy at all levels, comparatively that these operating systems in certain countries are more tailored to the user, which is less unnecessary legal formalities and procedures, which is less cost that is more competitive is any single economy. Amendments and additions proposed in significant changes mean facilitating, speeding up, and what is important are the establishment of a limited-responsibility society and a simple limited-responsibility society and all with the purpose of strengthening the competitiveness of our economy and, in general, stronger investment openness. They allow, as Mr. Minister said, to be fully away without a public notary and with minimum costs set up by d.o.o. and J.D.O. It means only a court fee of several hundred kunas. They leave the obligation to determine the subject-matter of a social contract except in the case of shareholders. There should also be noted what is important, the subject of business is equally not relevant in relation to third parties because it is a legally valid business that is concluded and outside it, it is more an internal matter for relations within society, according to the one who manages in the society in the context of possible damages that have occurred in the business of the company itself. Furthermore, these changes and additions allow electronic communication with the court register, as we have already heard, are deleted by the trader individual as a special type of craftsman. The proposed changes and additions allow easier and faster and cheaper liquidation procedures, leaving the market. It also facilitates, speeds up, cheaper all actions and actions related to the court register. Finally, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted and adopted an Action Plan for the Administrative Discharge of the Economy in 2019. The plan contains 314 measures, the implementation of which will charge more than 600 million kuna on the basis of these measures. The objectives of this plan are globally a complete digital transformation in particular in the business mode segment, the removal of administrative obligations as a whole, the reduction of the scope of the documentation to be provided by the taxpayers in meeting the administrative obligations and the elimination or reduction of the amount of financial compensation for a specific obligation. What is important from the position of Croatian entrepreneurs to say is that they should be disbursed at all levels and it is necessary to do everything in order to focus their work on their primary work, and in order for all of this to take away their time, concentration and finance, and what is in the domain of state institutions and state administrations is reduced to the least possible level. That is why these amendments to the laws that are before us today are only an additional incentive to strengthen the political climate in the Republic of Croatia and to draw attention from what is irrelevant to what is important. It's not just a matter of growth on the Duing Business scale, it must primarily be a new philosophy of relations with the economy, which is that the state has to be a partner, not a stepmother, first of all. In this context this is just one additional, additional moment how and how to help and make our economy more competitive at each level. That is why we welcome and support the amendments and additions of these two laws in front of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134749	Thank you next on behalf of SDP representative club colleague Orsat Milenić. Here's a colleague of Milenić's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134750	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, Minister, Secretary of State, but I don't know your colleague but he welcomes you, colleagues and fellow MPs, so of course, first of all, I would like to express my principled support for one and second bill of law. They certainly go in the right direction and go towards what we all need to be in the interest, which is to facilitate the position, but not the position, but here specifically the start of business in the Republic of Croatia. Any step that goes in the direction of moving from this paper action to that that you can do some work from home is welcome and should be welcomed. However, we should also say, and we should be aware of the reach of this law, which, as I said, shows a good direction, goes in the right direction. However, let's not have a delusion, any entrepreneur who comes to business in the Republic of Croatia and who cares whether his registration lasts a day or three, is not a serious entrepreneur. And that's right, I'm standing by it, so if you really have some business idea and you want to make it real, then it's just the details so far. The important thing is to cut costs and that's what's good and that's very good. As for the founding capital, I'm also not sure what this reduction will bring us because we have the possibility of starting a commercial society actually for 10 kuna right here with these 20 we go down, I don't see any need maybe we should then and abolish this one form, so leave just one little unique form, without simply being lower founding capital, so I say here they are evening out. I might have been there even before I talked about it, but we didn't have the support and we couldn't do it, so it seemed to me that maybe even better make a bigger difference. So if you have a foundation for 10 kuna is one story, if you start a classic limited-responsibility company let's raise it to 50,000 kuna. Well, the one who's really going to do business is going to come in very favorably, and the other one is still sending a message that he's more ready for the market, that he might be doing more complex jobs, and that's why his founding capital is bigger. I'm saying here, actually, if we didn't have these 10 kunas, then I would support this, but this is actually how we get closer, we do now have two forms that are so similar that they're unnecessary. So, I'm saying here I would, I think it'd be better if we went the other way. What you need, what you're doing around the activity, it's an absolutely good shift and it's going towards finally starting to implement that we can do everything that's not forbidden. So, all we don't need is a special permit so we can take part in the market and do business. Absurd is what happened so far when you had pages and pages of listed activities because you listed everything, because here's to cover and then when you look at every company doing so. So there's no difference and that's good. Easier liquidation, I think you might have even made a bigger step there because what we have a real problem in Croatia now is that we now people or entrepreneurs of the future are actually quite simply letting ourselves into the system and that's good. However, many people happen, especially when we release these simple meanings for 10 kunas that they entered the market and then when they wanted to go out, they faced a very large cost and a very big complication. Here it is fixed but perhaps a step could be made, perhaps between the two readings you will find and more solutions that will further simplify the liquidation without jeopardizing the credentials and any obligations that exist. In principle, I'd like to point to three things in principle. The first thing you can see here is that the Ministry of Justice is specifically developing an application and that's very good and that's great, but at the same time the second goes to the Ministry of Economy, and the e-Citizen at the Ministry of Administration is doing his job, and we still need to see how and to what extent those powers will be connected and imported. And that's, now I'm setting an example here, but it's a problem everywhere that systems develop too often independently of each other and then don't correspond and then you actually need a very big investment and you have a very big problem connecting them and giving a unique, unique solution. I hope that's not the case here and that they're really going to depend on each other, if that's what it is, then it's a very good thing. The other thing may not be directly the subject of these laws, but it is substantive, and this concerns the problem of the fragmentation and fragmentation of the court register because we here address a whole series of things in the right direction. However, one of the things that is very complicated causes problems every day is that, you don't have a unique court register in the Republic of Croatia and it causes people a problem and with all these information solutions maybe it's time that we say let's make one register and when I register that I register for the entire Republic, that I don't have to go to one commercial court, on the other, etc. And that's a big problem for us, that's what, let's say, what causes fractal problems to entrepreneurs, and what could be dealt with relatively simply through information, and hopefully that's the preparation and that you're going to make a step forward in that direction. Of course, there's the Law on Courts, the question of jurisdiction, who does, who doesn't work, etc., but let's not forget, we're a country of 4 million inhabitants, relatively weak economic activities, unfortunately, because there's no reason why we don't have a single court register, no reason for each trade court to run its own. So far, there have been practical reasons for doing business in papers, so it was hard to connect, I don't know, now that we're moving to digital business, the unique court register will bring us real, real business steps. But when we talk about it, maybe one question that is really strategic and it's long-term, and that's whether we even need a court register and whether a company register should be in court? In my opinion, courts should deal with disputed situations, start of business, registering a firm, it's not disputed, why would it be a court case? As soon as something is a court case, it takes place under special rules, it is in a different institution. Many more developed countries than we have that have much better business, they don't have it in courts. I know we belong to one of these Central European traditions, etc., but we don't have to move anywhere. In the perspective, I don't really see why it wouldn't be simplified, whether it's an economic chamber, whether it's anything that's going to do a simple registration and you're going to start doing business, if you have some kind of dispute, you're going to run it in court like any other, and you're going to get rid of this, and you're going to do the courts and then you're really going to do what you should do, and it's also a good move, but in the long run, it's too expensive and burdensome for the court, and that's, of course, it's strategic, it's not going to be settled from today to tomorrow, it's something to talk about, it's certainly going to find a lot of votes against and against and against, but it's something that I think it's supposed to be, when you're doing this thing that you're doing it's really, that you're going to be, you know, you're going to be able to do this thing to do, to do this thing to do, to do this thing to do, to do, to do, to get to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get to do, to get to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to do, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to get, to Is there anything more we can guarantee our entrepreneurs than countries they don't have? We can't, we don't have any more orderly, better business, etc. Because it's happening in court, and in court they'd open up the capacity to deal with something else and deal with the disputed situations. However, I say, these are strategic, so, in principle for the end of the law going in the right direction, and in this first reading, which should be supported by me, we'll see, hopefully you'll still appreciate these remarks, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134751	We're moving on with the rep club. The next colleague, Nikola Grmoj, is in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, and after his colleague, Grmoje, we will have a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Independent Representatives in order to prepare that he is first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS colleague Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134752	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists welcomes any change that leads to the improvement of business start-up and improvement of Croatian position on the Duing Business scale, and we are willing and in the parliamentary procedure of amending the Law on Commercial Companies which could make the Croatian economy more competitive and attractive for investment, meaning, and support, so we agree with the proposal to remove from the law the concept of individual trader and to comply with all the provisions of the law with that fact. We believe that this is a positive example of reducing administrative regulation of entrepreneurial activity. We also welcome the legislative changes relating to the abolition of the provisions on the storage of signatures in the court register, as well as the one which allows the establishment of a company by electronic means. at a distance. We can also in some ways support the proposed provisions on amending the laws relating to the abandonment of the obligation to enter the case in the main book of the court register, but we are surprised that the applicant does not go to the end and does not abolish the administrative procedure, but simply replaces it by having to submit an additional document by the founders in the establishment of companies in place of the registration in the court register. We acknowledge that this is a simplification, but it also proves the inability to move away from the state of consciousness of the ruling bureaucratic elite that is unable to remove administrative barriers, even for such a fact that is not legally relevant to the relations of the company with third parties, but is only important in relations within a particular society. An even greater bureaucratic execution, instead of a pro-proclaimed simplification, offers provisions that there should be no companies in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that have the same company or company name. Respecting the need to protect intellectual property, as well as the need to protect identity in business, we believe that this provision is nevertheless too restrictive for the freedom of business because it makes it impossible to exist, for example. two hotels named Jadran or lead to absurdity that first Ivan d.o.o. disable the registration of all other Ivans who wish to register a company with the same name. We prescribe all this at a time when there are OIBs and other recognizable indicators of each individual company, so we wonder what these records are for if we are to introduce these forms of restrictions. It also means that we are showing this in the first step to all those who want to do any work in Croatia that instead of receiving services from public services they must be prepared for a bureaucratic battle with them. These measures will certainly not make us attractive for any business. Proposers leave a provision under which the Government, or now, the Ministry of Management, agrees to enter the words of Croatia and its derivatives, as well as flags and coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia into companies of the company and thus re-interfer the competences of the judicial executive authority. Why don't we just leave the courts the last word in the business registration process. If we consider courts incompetent for such actions, they need assistance from the government's bodies. Let the Parliament take matters into its own hands and adopt clear legal provisions that courts will be able to comply with, and allow investors to have a simpler procedure that will not depend on court and ministry consent to be realistic not so crucial business issues. The proposal for amending the law also brings new developments regarding keeping records and business books of companies after the liquidation, we do not understand why such activity is transferred from courts to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, with the introduction of compensation to companies. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce does not mean any form of body of government, but a voluntary association and we do not consider it appropriate by law to authorise for this form of activity. Given all the legal initiatives that have come from this government in Croatia, no one will want to liquidate the company because the process becomes too complicated and overpriced. In principle, it can be welcomed by a provision under which at least one member of the supervisory board of a company whose shares are traded on a regulated market must be professional in the field of accounting or audit of financial reports, but there is a risk that such a provision is put in place without the determination of the responsibility of the Supervisory Board for the adoption of financial reports and communication on them with shareholders, as well as on the stricter principles of corporate governance, that we have a satisfactory standard on the expertise of members of the Supervisory Board and without the actual and responsible behaviour of the Supervisory Board in the field of accounting and audit. Finally, but not least, it is necessary to refer to the transposition of provisions and Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council into national legislation. Thus, we have multiple or multiple quotations of Directive 2017/828 amending and supplementing Directive 2007/36 as regards the identification of shareholders, the transfer of information and facilitating the exercise of the rights of shareholders, the transparency of institutional investors, property managers and advisors in the vote and the policy of reception. This continues with the practice of uncritically taking over the provisions of the European Parliament and the Council Directive into Croatian legislation and without real and autonomous debate on their importance and significance. Respecting all the facts and circumstances stemming from the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, we also take this opportunity to point out the absurdity of copying the provisions of European directives and quasi discussions on their content in the Croatian Parliament. If we cannot decide that already in this high house, then in the European Parliament, we will be committed to a simpler and more comprehensible procedure under which, or the European Directives will automatically apply without additional bureaucratic entanglements in the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament will have a sovereign and autonomous right to decide on what provisions will apply in the Republic. A new agreement is needed by EU Member States on this because this is how we duplicate the legislative procedure without added value for citizens. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists that the proposed provisions need to be completed and we will contribute to the amendments depending on the outcome of the vote on our amendments, or the adoption of our amendments by the Government, we will also make a decision on the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134753	We will now return to the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Court Register and in an individual debate, the Honorable Representative Miro Bulj will speak first. And until he starts talking let me say hello to the students and students of Šumarska and the woodworking school from Karlovac who are at our gallery. Here you go, buddy Bull. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134754	Thank you very much. In 2017, the proposed law and facilitating businesses and companies, the club representative of MOST proposed that because entrepreneurship is a wheel of development, jobs are a wheel of development, I don't know what has been waiting for so far with this law, which is why entrepreneurship has stopped and why we have more and more people who have gone away today. in that period since we proposed that law, so far many people have left because administration is the biggest problem in the Republic of Croatia because they are a brake. So we have today's difficult procedures for companies and entrepreneurs to create new jobs. And therefore we have 2/3 of Croatia empty, not only this law that MOST has proposed and with which the government is late, this law should have been long ago, entrepreneurs, companies,... companies should have been made easier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that because if we only look at the laws of everything, not just about new ones that should encourage entrepreneurs, who should encourage the economy mainly in 2/3 of Croatia, then this government should pass one law that we have also proposed to facilitate entrepreneurs in mountainous areas not only with what it is now but to facilitate them to have no minimum or no taxes, in such a way that they develop,... areas because the only thing missing from these areas in the mountain-mounted areas is jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it can't be done without jobs, it can't be given a framework for mountain-mounted areas of 40 million, which has led to the Law on mountain-mounted areas without the mention of entrepreneurs. In the Law on mountainous mountainous areas and underdeveloped areas, this government has shown a good will towards the development of these places, as it showed good will when decants were executed in Lika where there were more ministers, the president of our HS and the vice president of HS were visiting the village, by village, more ministers in Lica than there were residents. In this context, literally, if the Law on mountainous mountain areas allowed for entrepreneurs to be taxed, they would certainly be competitive and certainly remain in those areas, opening jobs, many coming, investing, investing. But it didn't happen, it didn't happen that, but it was one pear law. I believe that the bureaucratic gaps that are created in the Republic of Croatia with enormous intrusions, I know that the large body that feeds the HDZ infrastructure, its infrastructure, of course, in parts somewhere and the SDP, where they rule, the tribune feeds it all, the triba feeds them and clears that food chain in the counties, the whole food chain in numerous municipalities and cities, simply they cannot survive otherwise, and it goes all on the burden of entrepreneurs and not one law in this HS has been passed in the interest of developing these areas, opening jobs and it does not hurt me, I am saddened by what Minister Zalac is here and now you Mr. Bosnakovic is late with this law, which you did not accept this law, and most of all, when that moment, when it does not hurt me, when my end, when my Minister told me that you are here that you are "better and now that you are late to give birth to Zagoriæ to be born at least 5 times, that I was born in 5 years old places, that I would not to be born in 5 years in Croatia. But the message was sent to me at the time that it was better if I hadn't been born, the message was sent to us as an insult that we were cattle, which we're not ashamed to be a shepherd, it's something proud, only now that you're going to move into the pre-elections and this little thing that's left of the lambs and sheep, that's the only thing that you're doing very quality and thorough, and that's visible from the EU funds is that you're minimally withdrawing money and in agriculture, instead of encouraging the development of the herds, you've made an ecocid, in fact a crime, it already belongs to a crime, all the herds you've destroyed in those parts. Why? Is it lamb, it's a Japanese modern policy, you buy the votes with lamb, and you don't encourage entrepreneurs to laws, but in the evenings you try to push through when we announce this Law on mountainous mountainous areas, the Law on Dalmatian Zagora, immediately you're some kind of lamb law, and in fact it's the law of lambs, roasted lambs, where you buy lambs and poor people down here, I call them this time the people, except that there's a growing flock, I don't invite people not to believe out, we know about desserts, invasions that have been made in Lica, once again, now there are no ministers, how many ministers in Lica? Is the president of the HS in Lica, dancing a patriotic car, being a great patriot, and Shakespeare was also a good dancer, he was a leader, I see he's good at that patriotic car, arrest, locate, transfer. Where are these people to take up these areas? I've been making amendments, I've been making a proposal, and I'm sorry that this is happening in Knin, and here we see our secretary, Joseph Rimac, the Queen of Knin, who didn't have the courage to withdraw that law yesterday to at least justify our city, to justify the city of victory and the city of pride, Knin. Simply, all you're doing is a modern lamb policy, and that means as many lambs as possible, more votes to you, and that's why you're going to commit yourself now, and we're going to defend that money, before you have that money, and then Jolly's going to pay it, no problem at all, but I'm sorry that instead of developing agriculture, you're destroying agriculture, you're doing an ecocid, so we can say almost genocide as far as sheep are concerned. Once again, on the serious amendments that I have made to the mountainous mountainous areas that entrepreneurs on undeveloped areas of tax discharge, I have also received my colleagues here Ante Pranic insults that we are speaking in terms of untrueness, inaccuracy and with 40 million kuna, then did not even frame these municipalities and the cities of the units of local self-government say what number, but was said to be 45, and then after the regulation they extended to 87 and then Ivan Šipić urbi et orbi in all the media, says more money for Sinj, Drniš, Trilj, and in fact there were 45 municipalities, now 87 municipalities and cities of local self-government units, and the increase from only 35 to 45 million kuna, and it was with a sigh here Marić minister accepted that budget. I wasn't, I was, I didn't want to vote for the budget at all because of these areas, precisely because of entrepreneurs, precisely because of the people the tribune disburses in those parts can't, it's not natural to have the same tax in Zagora, Slavonia and Zagreb if we want to encourage the entrepreneur to invest and come to those parts. Otherwise, a little while longer, there will be no power to come entrepreneurs and be a good climate because there is no labour force and this is all you bring, I'm afraid, late, you have had time, you have had space, leave your Janitor's policies, the lambs, I'm talking about lambs, I'm not talking about the lambs of the Turkish era and the Ottoman Empire, I'm talking about more, and there are those who agree and like the port of Gaženica and the team, but I'm talking about entrepreneurs and undeveloped areas, for 40 million kunas for 80 municipalities and for 2/3 of Croatia turned out to be around 180 million kunas through two laws, the Law on Undeveloped Areas and the Law on Mountain Areas, instead of simply saying, for 5 years in these areas, entrepreneurs are free of taxes by hill and mountain-mountics, indicate them, 5 years. And believe me, there's a lot of investment to come because it's much more expensive in the Gorski kotar or the Dalmatian Zagora or Lici, and it means electricity is longer winter, it's a much more expensive product to produce and be competitive on the market in those areas, and if you don't dissipate entrepreneurs in these areas and this law that MOST proposed long ago, and you didn't want to accept it, you refused it, then everything will be pointless.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134755	Thank you very much. There are a number of replicas on your display, the first one will be the respected representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134756	Thank you, Vice-President, dear colleague Bulj, you have said everything exactly, in 2017 so the Ministry of Justice worked on a law that would allow the opening of the meaning of the company or company at a distance and we are always late. We are late because there is no real will to change anything, when something changes, changes under the pressure of the public, means we either have an accident or this entrepreneur or some social group is rebelling, and then there's a protest and then the government is going into some kind of cosmetic change, but there's no real will to make things better in Croatia. We are the political option that may have most strongly advocated the rights of small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, micro entrepreneurs but simply in this government there is no hearing about it, but we will continue to warn and we will probably contribute to the changes in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134757	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134758	I agree, later on, I was talking about 2/3 of Croatia that are empty simply won't be labour force and that entrepreneur who wants to come in for a future period because he's late with the measures that the Tribals are encouraging entrepreneurs to invest in these areas, to be competitive and to be able to survive. All the legal initiatives we have given have been rejected mainly for small entrepreneurs, craftsmen only because the government was not of primary interest, they are much more interested in having the largest teleoperate profit, the largest EU HT profit, the biggest profit in the Republic of Croatia, the 42% margin, while the EU has 20% margin. It is important to them that wind power plants go to foreigners 1.5 billion kuna a year without investing in microsolaries where our entrepreneurs, as MOST suggested, what our entrepreneurs could produce and set up. So they're not working. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134759	The next replica is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134760	Dear colleague Bulj, I have listened carefully to you, of course MOST advocates the digitisation of public administration in priority 2 of the Ministry of Regional Development and European Funds is foreseen EUR 105 million. According to this strategy, which was yet to be adopted in 2015, the project was due to end in the third quarter of 2017. In 2018, Croatia actually recorded 58 places on the ease of business scale, while, for example, one Macedonia recorded 11 places. What I would certainly like to agree with you is that we need to ensure easier procedures, to make it as small a tour of institutions as possible, so that entrepreneurs register their companies, to reduce the number of procedures and the number of steps. This has been available since 2014 to us 13 million kunas which we are unable to spend.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134761	Dear Representative Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134762	Well first, my neighbors who went to other countries had the intention of returning after a long time and when they saw what procedures, paperwork, knocking from door to door, sending to a number of these numerous doors essentially gave up investing in Croatia and that was one of the greater potentials that was, we're just talking about the diaspora. And this, and it has not been used, was not used precisely because Croatia did not work to simplify and help entrepreneurs who want to invest and create additional value, but our people create additional values, from our raw materials such as. they are exporting to Italy in wood in Gorski kotar. Our people who are educated in Croatia go to their sawmills, create furniture sold to us here, and in Gorski Kotar there are empty sawmills, we have raw materials and empty ones, and we have no people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134763	Dear Representative Marko Sladolev has the next line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134764	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bulj, for speaking of the necessity of a change from the law, but as much as our laws are unfavourable for entrepreneurs, not only so, so those that are now being directed and we can say in some good, but it's too late, for example. The law on protection at work. I have a friend who has a small business information company that's come into labor protection inspections and said there's not enough lighting, even though the workers, so with lighting, have no problems and told him that he has to invest 60,000 kunas because the lighting isn't good. And now this little businessman man who fights for jobs has to invest his 60,000 kuna for new lighting, instead of making it easier for him to do business she constantly.../incomprehensible/... therefore forces him to give some of his duties in order to finance this vast state administration that is actually a voting body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134765	Dear Representative Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134766	Thank you very much, so here's the meaning 13 million kuna was meant to secure the funds in 2017 was in the ministry, it was in public consultation this law to ease, so it's not a little time, it's almost 2 years, that this law has not been passed that whole procedure, that it's been passed before would have made it easier for a lot of people not to have to wait for rows, stamps, but over the internet they could register their own company, but in this way it was done the opposite. But it's much more important to pave the way for the elections now to work to the stakes that they don't have di chickens to put in, to simply ask for votes, to invest in less-needed things than the most important thing, and that's opening jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134767	The next replica of the respected representative, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134768	Thank you very much. Col. Bulj, you mentioned the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, and exactly, during the debate on the law, not only you but many MPs have proposed a series of measures that should facilitate entrepreneurship activities in these areas, but all proposals have been rejected and a law was passed at the end of last year in which there is not a single measure of benefit for residents of these areas, let alone some entrepreneurial ones. And the law stipulates that a plan for the development of mountainous areas will be adopted in the first 3 months of this year, in which those measures will then be prescribed. We're already at the end of the 3rd month, not even p of the plan. It's not in sight, it's not in sight. So there are no measures, and we've already entered this financial year, which means that the residents of these areas have been double-crossed, that this year they won't get any of these millions you mentioned, with whom they're praised for winning them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134769	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134770	So I would agree with the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and Undeveloped Areas, simply it was a pamphlet, PR Minister Žalac, which does not mean a minor financial framework for mountainous and mountainous areas alone, 45 million funds were provided. At the time, we didn't know what the scope of the local self-government units was, there were 45, so this year.../incomprehensible/... 87, no matter how many MPs, here I mentioned, they knew that a colleague of Šipic and a colleague who was in HNS who had gone to Milan Bandic had basically deceived that people because they had risen from 40 to 45, and then there were 45 units when there were 30 million. And now 87 units. So by 20% they've raised the amount of 45 new units of local self-government. More than twice the size of local self-government units. Which is disastrous, which is mockery with the Gorski Kotar, the Dalmatian Zagora and Liko, it's a simple mockery, it's a PR pamphlet because the minister was afraid... to issue the law in the procedure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134771	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134772	Thank you very much. Comrade Bulj, you said something about mountainous and mountainous areas, and not only is it a pamphlet made by the government regarding the law, but it has gone knowingly and punished areas that have been denied their obedience under quotes. You see that HDZ is in trouble right now and it won't put most of it together in face, I'm sure the day doesn't take care, in person, you said yourself that there's no one now. That they visited ministers, that every day there were five of them. Where are the ministers in Lika now? Is there one who does something there, gives, promises? On the other hand, you see how they treat the person, on the other hand, what about the mountain? Why from there all units of local self-government fell out of the Law on hill-mounted areas. It's as if we don't know that the mountain's burning, that there's a need to help, because there's a SDP in power. So HDZ takes everything to itself, and it hurts itself. That's how he leads our country. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134773	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134774	I agree that the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas would be impartial, so that it should not be seen which units of local self-government are in power, any political option, however, it is true that the parliament, where the HDZ authorities are that these ministers are coming. But where they come from, here is counterpart Šipic, he would confirm it, that every arrival of the minister in the fall is Natalie, the demographic fall is, mainly in the municipalities and cities where they visit. Here, the minister visited my town, where the court was in 1887, where it worked during Austria-Hungarian, but he came and didn't want it... The centre of the Dalmatian Zagora, where Sinj area of 50,000 inhabitants or come to shut down any institution or come there to praise their parliamentary representatives and those 40 million essentially give them for some asphalting pre-election so that it would be good to extract asphalt samples in these cities and see exactly [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Which... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134775	The next replica is the respected representative of Ivica Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134776	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bulj, I repeat, this government is the only government that has tried to make a financial order in the country and has made it. The second thing, the only government that has raised the minimum wage to three thousand kunas and approved an entrepreneur of seven thousand kunas.../incomprehensible... which is that every month 600 kuna can be given to your worker, if you have money, of course. That's what we have to look at, that we've had a surplus on this government while we've always had a deficit. If we go to raise the wages and the rest, and we don't have the money, we raise the loans, we're gonna get in trouble again. I think that this strategy that now works for both births and everyone else, and for entrepreneurs, I would like it to be much more, but the system is such that we have to go strategically, that we can't skip some things and we can't be rich, we're not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134777	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134778	Dear Mišić, the huge money leaks through our fingers, and the entrepreneurs, you know it because, in that dam, that only jobs are important for both Slavonia and the whole area, mainly in undeveloped areas. And if we're already doing laws on these parts, then we should primarily look at jobs and allow entrepreneurs to be competitive. This was not done by the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, but was set up by a financial framework, as the minister came in who, to know which HDZ mayor, to give him for foot-and-mouth, to give him for lamb before the election and something like that. So that's not good. It is not necessary to look at who is in power in which the unit, mainly in undeveloped areas, but rather to make one fair to all entrepreneurs in these parts, through tax cuts, to be competitive people, because they cannot be competitive. It wasn't done and it's just that this government didn't show it except for the PR law. And the mountain-mounted mountains were undeveloped. The PR law of Minister Grief who destroyed... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134779	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134780	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to say very briefly, so I welcome a series of changes that take place in this law, I think they're mostly good, I'm glad that this law goes into two readings, so we have one normal procedure and you're going to respect some proposals that come from the opposition between these two readings so that this law is ultimately better. 5 January 2017 In its reform plan, the government cited a number of reforms concerning both entrepreneurs and simplifications of company openings, movement of administrative barriers, etc. and she said that the basis for implementing these reforms is exactly a legislative initiative and therefore comes to this law. So this law is also due to the desire or plan of some implementation of government reforms, and I am therefore sorry that it comes two and a half years after the government announced it. So I think this law was supposed to come a long time ago or about a year and a half ago. Secondly, the good things in this law are that, I don't know, such as a measure of reducing the underlying capital for d.o.o., as well as simplifying the opening of companies even more, so we and now we have some models that have been introduced in recent years through fast.hr to simplify the system and the possibility of opening up companies in the Republic of Croatia, and so also simple stock companies, this law makes these things even simpler, it's good, it's also what reduces the costs of liquidating companies or shutting down companies that have often been a problem for our citizens to actually get into some business, so after some time, very simple and convenient, after some time it doesn't go into trouble, and then it just gets into even bigger problems to shut down that company. This proposal solves this significantly and reduces these costs and that is good. However, I expected that the reform of simplification of entrepreneurship would be like one whole multi-law package and then it would be in the plan of the reform announced by the government in 2017. and I mean not only these administrative reforms and simplifications, but also those fiscal ones. So, like when we were making tax reform, we had a whole set of laws that concerned that tax reform. I also expected that in one of these packages of entrepreneurial or entrepreneurial reform, I would call it that, we will have the same package of laws, so that we will not only have administrative simplifications, but also this tax, fiscal, etc., it is still an unfavourable area for entrepreneurs, it is still a perception in the public that entrepreneurs are here, in the first place, financially burdened and primarily serving to finance the public sector, it is such and perception, one large part of it is true, because we also see messages being sent to entrepreneurs, so whenever the state lacks money, the state goes down by, precisely those who create additional values, and these are our entrepreneurs. There have been examples of this government, a whole series in this term, let's say, we have an example of a host who was raised to the VAT by 100% of the government's price, so from 13% to 25% immediately at the beginning of the term of office, it certainly didn't contribute to the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia. So, it also deviated from the tourism development strategy that was adopted in this House, which said it guarantees entrepreneurs one tax stability, and then at the first opportunity possible, it was increasingly expensive and impacted. The second thing, there are still no problems and abuses that happen as well. So we're witnessing a whole series of openings and closing simple stock companies with certain entrepreneurs who abuse this system, watching how they can, therefore, use some benefits, open up the company, then move quickly to another company, it's also not solved by these proposals. The second thing, the same thing when we talk about these tax exemptions, is a series of measures that can be taken or there is a lot of space that can facilitate these financial contributions that entrepreneurs have towards the state. Let's just say, for me, it's one of the same problems about winnings going towards the company's headquarters, not where it's being created and done, so that's one problem that should be solved. We have companies that make profits, in some areas they have registered headquarters, I don't know, in Zagreb or in some other environments, and then the profits end right in these areas, etc. Anyway, I think what you're doing, this proposal isn't bad, that there's more good things than I'm going to say there aren't any bad things, but maybe there's not enough good things I expected, but I expect you to improve and fix, say, some more things, but ultimately I think that any change is for the better good, but I expected from the government one whole package of reforms, one whole program, so, and mostly this fiscal discharge, and not just administrative. Here, so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134781	And there's a whole series of replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134782	Thank you, Your Honor, you have well warned of the fact that this government does a little bit of work, means, and to help, it means, also, these undeveloped areas of the Republic of Croatia, but also to relieve our entrepreneurs, in order to facilitate procedures, reduce administration, we know how much it chokes and entrepreneurship and all people who are trying to create something in this Republic, and they are key to the development of the economy in general and for the development of our country and what we simply need to see that there are no real, structural changes. We have a situation now that we have a pension reform where the retirement age is increasing without the government throwing it at its doorstep, without implementing public administration reform without, therefore, implementing judicial reform, without reducing the number of politicians at both local and national level, for example. We also propose this through our electoral law, a reduction in the number of MPs. I'd like to ask you to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134783	The answer of the respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134784	That's right, so the whole series of illogical things that show that the whole system doesn't work and that, let's say, this government partially solves, solves, tries to solve the problem by, say, a problem. Here, we also have a problem with the contract, we have in the state administration, officers who have been working on the contract in part for years, which is not really supposed to be. It wouldn't have to happen. So you have people who for five and ten years I've known some who are six, seven years on a contract on a section, in a public service. So if someone's been working on a contract for six years, then it means there's a need for that job. Then this means that this job, for that job, should be called a tender, that someone there should get a job for a permanent period, not that people work on a part-year contract and that they are paid 110% of tax fees, and that they could be employed in a normal way. So it's the same one of the problems that could be solved by some... reforms. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134785	Dear representative Sonja Cikotic, has the next line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134786	Your esteemed colleague from your debate is clearly coming from a mountainous mountainous area, and certainly there are entrepreneurs who do not have trade courts, who are close to each of the local sites. So surely these travel costs and the tour of the institutions themselves require additional costs, and I also agree, with your finding, that it was necessary to expand the actual debate on digitisation and some other things, such as digitisation and the distribution of income tax itself. If one part of the profit tax is certainly necessary, it should actually be directed towards that unit of local self-government, where the plant is located or where the activity itself is carried out. There was a lot of it, that we actually have an unnatural accumulation of profits, as is the case in Vukovar, where there is also a PPD and then ineffective, means it increases the entire county and the town of Vukovar itself, actually shares per capita in GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134787	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134788	I agree with you fellow Members, that I come from a mountainous mountainous area, it's my constituency, it's true, so there are no essential reforms, there's no judicial reform to shut down one court or bring two courts together. The reform of the judiciary would be the effectiveness of the judiciary, if the trials didn't last for 10-15 years, so if we didn't know, we'd be worried that in 2-3 months. I don't know how to leave Sanader or some big corruption thing, and basically, there's some kind of judicial reform under wraps, what happens is that we're shutting down the court, we're moving cases out of here, from there, which is basically, just costs for entrepreneurs and citizens, and then they have to go 50 miles into another city, and basically every couple of years, there's a reform that brings the courts together, and then after five years, they're separated, and we have nothing at all. But those true reforms, which are supposed to happen, they're behind and they're gone. And that is the main problem of Croatia's overall development.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134789	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134790	Apparently, our government, this world here, simply deters reality. I don't know, the minister of justice was in Sinj, when he mentioned and asked and he agreed and the mayor, everyone agreed that he should remain the municipal court in Sinj, but he came down to hold a meeting with the HDZ leadership and he agreed with them that it would be fine if there was no court. They're going to have some kind of exposition, that people are going to travel 200-300 km or in this case if we don't have, and in the end they don't have trade courts, it's a minor problem. The smaller problem is that people will need 500 kn, to get to, and they don't have 100 in court, on basic litigation, that's not a problem for the minister. He doesn't care about the Gorski Kotar, for the Cetinski region, for the Dalmatian Zagora, to shut down the court which was opened during Austro-Hungarian times, tradition and wipe it off with the face of the country, not all the occupiers did. All the occupiers, we had a court in Sinj,... deleted and probably with you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134791	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134792	Not only the courts, but we had a rush, I don't know, shutting down the birthplace in certain environments and just always in these undeveloped environments are being shut down both courts and birthplaces, etc. And then it's showing up as some kind of savings reform, and now it's going to be better, and it's going to solve all the problems. And basically every move causes additional and new problems that are worse. So, let's say the court that covers the city I live in is in the town of Crikvenica, so in the neighbouring city and my citizens already do, and when I have to go to court, I have to go 10 km to the next town. And then there was reform, and then it was transferred to the Stocks, and now watch out, what kind of connections New Vinodolski and Crikvenica have to do with Shares, and then our citizens travel to Shares, have extra costs and that. So these mergers call them reforms even work out of every logic and out of every common sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134793	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Mark Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134794	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, you spoke of the latest intensities of this law, and I also believe that this is not enough, therefore, in the replica before Mr Bulj, that it is necessary to amend the Law on protection at work, that it is also in some way burdening small entrepreneurs, as regards some administrative barriers, but I will only tell you one more example, that this government did not actually recognise young people, therefore, entrepreneurs, so students who are entrepreneurs in Croatia lose their student rights and set up companies, therefore, in Ireland and such things. So a lot of things still need to be changed in order to really create an entrepreneurial climate in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134795	The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134796	This is true, and a colleague of Sladolev, there has now been another situation that we are a member of the EU and that it is not a problem for our citizens to open a company in any EU member state. And for example, in recent days, there has been a story in the media of a large car manufacturer, who is calculating whether to open a factory in Bulgaria or Serbia that is not in the EU at all. So, the big entrepreneurs are more evaporative in one country far from Croatia, I think in Serbia as far as the law is concerned, they're behind us, so I'm going to say for a minimum of 5 years in some sort of arrangement, but as far as these entrepreneurial stories are concerned, let's say that the big producers in Europe would rather open a factory there than ours, which, for example, in normal terms, they should have no logic. So we should be a country that attracts large companies and we should be that door to say Eastern Europe in which, the first ticket of Western countries will be on those markets.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134797	The next replica is the respected representative Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134798	I thank you, so fellow Djujic means when we talk about this entrepreneurial climate in Croatia, you have now mentioned that foreign companies do not want to open these facilities in Croatia, not only do foreign companies not want to, but our people no longer want to open up here means companies but they shut them down and open them up in Estonia where they do it with the 3 mouse clicks or in Ireland. But what might be even more, which is even more worrying is that we have a whole generation of young people who mean college graduates, and who, I often talk to these young people who want to go to entrepreneurship, who don't intend to open a company here at all, don't think about it at all, that's what the entrepreneurship climate means to us. That they do not intend to do business here at all, that is, to work here, but to start a company in Ireland or Estonia or in some of those countries where it is much simpler, where giving is smaller, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134799	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134800	Not only is it simpler and the givings are smaller, but whether the entrepreneurship climate, for example, is suitable, or whether it creates a positive picture, for example. if you see that you can be a successful entrepreneur if you carry on your head and on your shoulders some finance minister of a particular country and only so can you be a good entrepreneur if you are a generous sponsor of a particular ruling party, if the ministers of that party have Mercedes in their backyards and you are a successful entrepreneur. Is it a picture of our young people then creating jobs here or running away with their heads regardless of some countries where, in an entrepreneurial sense, people don't even know who the minister is. That's how Croatia should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134801	The next individual debate was supposed to be a respected representative of Varga, but it is not, it loses its right to debate, and the next debate will be the respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, this topic would really be much to talk about, talk a lot and finally make certain conclusions that, of course, everyone in the Republic of Croatia must be clear. Croatia is growing worse and worse year after year on the Duing business scale, the problem Croatia has is that we have no quality shifts in terms of education, reforms, or facilitating business, competitiveness etc. Last year, so for Croatia, out of 190 countries ranked ended up in 58 places. Apparently if you say 58 out of 190 it's 1/3 not bad, but believe me, it's bad. Because all European countries, especially those with whom we would like to compare, are much, much better. It's also bad because of what she fell to 58 in one year from 51. We have lost 7 seats on the Duing Business Board only in one single year, working or not working any way you want the HDZ Government or the Government of Andrej Plenkovic. And now you're looking at where we're good at this Duing business scale, and where we're bad and you get that Croatia has one of the biggest downfalls in the business launch category, where we fell in one year from 87 to 123. In the year where Prime Minister Plenkovic and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric boasted with incredible reforms, business eases, a positive business environment, etc., we fell from 87 to 123 places in the world in that one year. Hey, Croatia is 123 countries ranked in the world if possible, since 190. Some African countries are even better than Croatia. And then here we're going to talk about some successes, we can't talk about anything here except that unfortunately we're going back, we're stagnant and we're simply not dealing with the problems we should be dealing with. What do we get in return? Those of us who talk about this government not doing much or doing almost nothing and back from year to year, we get threats, that, that colleagues and colleagues, the threats of friends of HDZ ministers who deliver buses in cities where HDZ is in power, that they deliver and have contracts with the parents of the Mercedes ministers standing in parking lots with a few more cars that parents, mothers ministers have. We are facing threats when the MPs dare say something and warn about the HDZ affair then entrepreneurs are making big threats and insults, speaking and grading someone's ministerial work, etc. And today, of course, they're talking about it and the untrue, they're talking about former ministers like Lalovec who have nothing to do with any approval or anything, a loan that's been said these days to speak of these days of credit that's been given to a company owned by a certain Mr. Jolly. So here it is today, we read on one portal that the credit is approved or is realized in 2016. In April of this month, it was announced today by HBOR, when HDZ was in power, neither Lalovac nor SDP was anywhere near, but it was close to Minister Zdravko Maric. At the World Cup you could see all this enthusiasm and ecstasy of two close friends where they carry each other on their shoulders, Jolly wears on the shoulders of Minister Marić and rejoice together with the success of the Croatian national team, Jolly with meaning on his backs, on his shoulders, on the burden, carried by HDZ Minister from the HDZ Government, from Plenkovic's Government. So have you ever seen a similar picture that one minister, defacto sits, this one jumps and rejoices together on his shoulders, code we're at a rock concert, but in high school, not in some serious story. He sits on top of him the man who granted him a loan and cheers and then Jolly says on the press, so I'm a sponsor of the HNS, I invited my friend Minister Maric, we were there together, a map, etc., so look how much a ticket one costs for a game or cost for the World Cup game in football, it's thousands of kuna, maybe this whole situation would be funny and we could all laugh, but there's no laughing place at all, there shows the intertwine of HDZ and interesting lobbies, an entrepreneur who then dares to threaten the representatives when they ask the simplest answers to the question whether, when you were working with HBOR? So now what's so hard and tragic to answer? So tell Mr. Jolly how long have you been, how have you worked with HBOR? He says, I closed a loan with the Commercial Bank, so tell Mr. Jolly, let's say, interested in the Croatian public whether this Commercial Bank got sources from HBOR, tell Mr. Jolly, it would be better to know anyway, rather than saying I paid off, so you paid off because you got more favourable terms, you may have paid off because the conditions were more favourable if they were working with the Commercial Bank in that programme proposed that year and from HBOR. We also need to give this information to Croatian citizens, and they want to know how, how they operate, so I don't mind people doing hotels, doing the best hotels, doing the best in the world, but when business policy is so connected and connected, then it must be transparent and no one should be angry when such questions are asked, give simple answers, simple answers only, and everything will be clear, as the commission now has to examine all this about Minister Žalac and Minister Marić, because everyone in the Republic now thinks there's a conflict of interest. No one can explain why Mrs. Devereaux's mom did it. The Minister has three cars available, no one, it doesn't make any sense. No one can explain why her husband was seen driving around nonstop for a while now, no one, so these things need to be lit up. Just as the relationship that led to the closeness of Minister Marić and Mr Joly must be illuminated. I really have a lot of friends, but believe me, I don't know if I'd jump on anybody's neck, so close friends I don't have to jump on my neck and be so close to, I don't. I have friends that I went to high school with, I've been through a lot with them, but to get my brother to jump at someone's neck, and this guy's wearing me on his shoulders, so close, I even now, I feel a certain amount of incredible happiness for Maric and Jolly that they're so close, I'm really glad that there's such a built-up relationship between Mr. Zdravko Maric and Mr. Jolly, that they're so close, that they carry each other on their shoulders because it shows a dose of trust and closeness that they enjoy each other. But when we have such a dose of trust and closeness and we do public work, then we have to be clear, be transparent and say that there is no favor, no conflict of interest. There are people close to Jolly, but they're clean with it, I believe there are more close, he said he's very good with HDZ, but at least they're clean with it and they give clear answers. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134803	You've been saying that at least it had nothing to do with the agenda, but we have more replicas on it, so then, the first respected representative of Nikola Grumoja, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134804	Dear colleague Maras, what the chairman said is not true. Your exposure had a lot to do with entrepreneurship because it shows how entrepreneurship works today in the Republic of Croatia, not so that the state allows all entrepreneurs equal access to the market, equal terms, less red tape, less administration, less pressure for everyone, than it does for certain people as they have favored Ivica Todorovic, as they have favored many, as I do not know, favored Mr Jolly, and then he returns them through various services, it will only be examined, it is one false approach to entrepreneurship, it is HDZ's approach to entrepreneurship, it is this ortastic capitalism that they speak of at their meetings to those who criticize them, and in fact they are the creators of ortatic capitalism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134805	Dear Representative Gordan Maras, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134806	Thank you very much, Mr. Grmoya, you're right, no one's saying that in a specific case there were conjectures, but give me answers, show me the information, convince us all, don't answer the same questions three times in different ways. So as soon as you set yourself up like that, let them give answers, let them say how much, with whom the loan went. Why is it such a secret? Well, he knows Mr. Shuker, I've advocated in 2013, 2014 that all HBOR loans are clearly available. I didn't have any support there, they still told me that Maras told me you don't know what you're going to do, what damage you're going to do. There's no harm in transparency, believe me, I asked for it five, six years ago the same as I asked for many things, unfortunately I didn't have the support of certain structures and on my page then, but when it came to light.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134807	The next replica is the respected representative Sonja Cikotic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134808	Dear counterpart Maras, this law comes from the Ministry of Justice and is very much related to the growth and development of the Croatian economy. What I want to stress is that we return in 2011 to 2015 when the SDP government actually prepared the entire Operational Programme of Competitiveness and Cohesion, and today it is the third month of 2019. It is precisely the SDP government that has provided 13 million kuna for the implementation of this project that has been implemented in two phases. Now, you tell me when you were and you acted on the minister's duty, if you were in favour of faster, more efficient actual digitisation so that our entrepreneurs from the island, from mountainous and mountainous areas, from remote parts of Croatia would have equal access, means registration of the company, that it would be a simple effective service and that you would wait 3.4 years for you to actually come to the assembly, to the Croatian Parliament to confirm your law and that you haven't spent any more swearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134809	Dear Representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134810	Thank you very much for that comment and for that question, I have to tell you right away in the beginning, not to be a pawn, that's what I've been doing. Here is to know HDZ representatives in the next debates to praise me a little, I introduced an e-bar, i.e. the opening of a craft via the internet in 2015, and I introduced a flat-rate payment, i.e. I raised 230,000 kunas for the students so that they could work. So that's something that's my legacy and now people wonder at HDZ say, so how much of a twist opens up, why everyone goes to it, so because I made it possible for them then in 2015. It's easier to open a craft, it's easier to have simple bookkeeping, it's easier if you don't have to be in the VAT system at all until a certain amount, it's easier if you have to pay the VAT, and you remember the campaign that some people laughed about, and charge and pay for it, all of which are colleagues and colleagues Gordan Maras then proposed, and I hope that they will remember that from HDZ colleagues when we discuss some solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134811	The next replica is the respected representative of Sasa Djujic. Here's my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134812	Thank you very much, colleague Maras, for your discussion, and since it has to do with this topic, you mentioned the picture in which Mr Joly wears the Minister Marić on his shoulders and back, this picture sends two messages to the Croatian public and paints the situation very well in Croatia today. So, if Mr. Jolly symbolizes the entrepreneur, as an entrepreneur symbolises Croatian entrepreneurs, and Minister Maric symbolizes the state apparatus, then we can conclude from that picture that our entrepreneurs carry on their backs a state apparatus or public service. But the other message that's being sent with that picture is that you're successful if you're wearing the right person on your back from the state's apparatus or if you're wearing the right minister, then you're a successful entrepreneur. So two messages send this picture and it's very good at taking pictures of the situation today in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134813	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134814	Thank you very much, so some have now told me, overnight says even rhymes, Jolly doesn't like you, I said he doesn't have to love me, I don't ask for Jolly to love me like for example Zdravko Marić or Minister Žalac, Maras Gordan doesn't want Jolly to love him at all, Maras Gordan wants to love Jolly, she just wants Jolly to give answers that Croatian citizens are interested in and that Zdravko Marić gives answers that Croatian citizens are interested in because it's about public money and public authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134815	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134816	... Here I found one survey last year by the Croatian Employers' Association 661 respondents who moved into 26 countries of the world in 5 years were surveyed as the most common reason for leaving listed an unorganized and bad state, incompetent politicians and political parties without vision 8%, then hopelessness, integrity of the country, the collapse of the state and society 7.6 employment of similar party people and nepotism 7,4, corruption and crime 7.3, the crackdown of Ustasha and Partizan 6.4, and only in the 6th place 5.2% of the salary for which, as a reason they moved out. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[Intruder: Your microphone is not on.]] That's why we fell on this company opening scale, because it just doesn't recognize that the situation in this country is normal, and I think the justice minister should deal with the functioning of the law in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134817	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134818	Thank you very much, I'll tell you one exclusive thing now, so I'm ashamed that the Austrians, what the Austrians teach us with certain values and that our judiciary and our minister of justice should behave. I will suggest that the bishop who banned mass from Bleiburg to honor the street in the City of Zagreb That man owed R.H. in that one move... [[/Agreement: Well, now this really has nothing to do with the addition of the Company Act.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134819	Intruder: Comrade Maras, do not violate the Rules of Procedure/... in that one move [[I'm giving you a warning.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134820	more than two governments...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134821	Intruder: I'm giving you another warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134822	What are you upset about? Are you ashamed of the bishop who banned the mass in Bleiburg from being used for false purposes? So be ashamed of yourselves if you will cast me out for it [[No, no, you're just saying, you're totally...]] You want to throw me out because I'm praising the bishop and I'm praising him for banning the mass in Bleiburg to be banned. [[Intruder:...outside, speak outside the agenda...]] No, no, I'm saying what's right. [[Intruder:...as all the time, as all the time you speak outside the agenda...]] I'm talking to Mr. Vice President about being an Austrian bishop. [[You spoke when you had...]] Indebted the Republic of Croatia and showed us what the real values are, it should be your promotion [[Don't argue with me.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134823	I beg your pardon? [[Intruder: I'm removing you today, for today...]] Remove me? [[I'm taking you out of here for the day.]] For what? [[Intruder: Yes]] [[Intruder: Because of this, you received two warnings, and you have not responded to two warnings and I deny you any further speech]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134824	Wait a minute, Mr. Vice President, so you gave me one and the other a warning right away. And you removed me? [[Intruder: Yes]] I spoke from my heart, my emotions, and I didn't hear what you were talking about. [[Intruder: Yes, because you did not stop talking outside the topic, I warned you]] Can you understand that? [[Intruder: I'm you]] And I didn't hear, I'm sorry, what were you saying, Mr. Vice President? [[Intruder: I've told you nicely mine]] Why would he throw me out? .../ [[Incursion from the assembly: Throw him out]] [[Incursion from the assembly: reminder]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134825	Well, the next line is respected, enough, enough.....because I'm not what I need? Look, thank God I'm not right by your standards.../The Insect:...the bench talk and a lot of unwarranted speech, right, the next replica is the esteemed representative of Zdravko Ronko. Would you remind the gentleman? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134826	Thank you very much. Agent Maras, this isn't really a replica, it's a correction to an incorrect quote. [[/Intruder: Please be quiet.]] You said that, or that Jolly was carrying the finance minister, it's true that the finance minister is riding Jolly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134827	Yeah, that was very much in the dark, too, but good. Now we're going to finish on behalf of the Club of Representatives, you can't speak, you've been taken from the word, you've been taken from the word, and you can't speak any further. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, there is a respected representative of Nikola Grmoja, please welcome fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, you must allow your colleagues, Marasa, perhaps he wishes to announce a complaint about your actions, the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, and we have already had such a situation, so you must hear what he wants to say to you, and you have injured the Rules of Procedure because I noticed that he did not hear when you gave him notice because you simply said it so quickly, but regardless, you must allow him now to tell you what he wants to say, you do not know what he wants to say, maybe he wants to make an appeal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134829	Here, I agree with you, and I'll give him my word if he wants to make an appeal, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have violated the Rules of Procedure, Art. In 235, it seems to me, therefore, about the warnings, so I didn't hear you say so quickly three times that I had a warning and I just couldn't react. So you can't give me a warning three times in the same second and therefore remove me from the Assembly. How did you say, beware, “to remove, ” so what kind of word is that? So I'm the elected representative with 13 500 votes, how many votes did you get? How many votes did you get?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134831	It's you, you're out of time for the first time. Secondly, you have called, of course, on a completely wrong article because you do not know the Rules of Procedure as usual, you are talking about a replica in that article, and you have been taken away from it, you cannot speak anymore, and if you have heard it, you have not heard it, heard it, heard it or heard it, sorry, your problem. Now we will finally give the opportunity to finally say, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134832	Thank you, Vice President. So, as I have already said about these legal changes, we can propose that, or we can support certain proposed provisions on amending the laws relating to the abandonment of the obligation to enter the case in the main book of the court register, but we are surprised, again, that the applicant does not go to the end and does not abolish the administrative procedure, but simply replaces the fact that, in the setting up of companies, he will have to submit, instead of entering the court register so far, additionally, that he will have to deliver an additional document by the founders, that is to say, a certain simplification, but it also proves that he is not able to move away from the state of consciousness, as I said, the ruling bureaucratic elite, which is not, therefore, able to remove these administrative obstacles, even for such a fact that is not legally relevant to the relations of a company with third parties, is already important only in relations within a particular society. As I said, an even greater bureaucratic devastation instead of that constantly declared simplification offers provisions that no companies should exist in the territory of the Republic of Croatia that have the same company or company name. So we have made it clear that we respect the need to protect intellectual property. We are also aware of the needs of identity protection in business, but we believe that such a provision is too restrictive for business freedom, so it does not allow us to have two hotels with the same name or two, meaning, or more companies if someone registers a specific name, and we all know that each company has an OIB and other recognizable indicators and we simply do not see reasons for such a restrictive approach. It is clear, then, that the applicants also leave a provision whereby the Government or the Ministry of Administration's tasks give consent to the entry of the words of Croatia and its derivatives, as well as the flags and coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia into the company of the company of the company and thus re-interfer the competences of the judicial and executive authorities. So why don't we just, like I said, leave the last word to the courts in that business registration process. It is obvious that in this case we do not trust the Croatian judiciary, we do not consider Croatian courts competent enough, so there is also a need for assistance from government bodies. Let the assembly take matters into its own hands and bring clear legal provisions. Can this one at all, Minister I think I have an exhibition on behalf of the club, you're talking to me behind my back, please stop my time, it's been 10 seconds. So let the Parliament take matters into its own hands and adopt clear legal provisions according to which courts will be able to comply, and let us provide investors with a simple procedure that does not depend on the consent of courts and ministries on issues that are not crucial to business. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... [[You'll get 10 seconds.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134833	All right, here's a colleague of mine out there himself, so, uh, here's a buddy of mine, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134834	So the proposal for amending the law also brings new developments regarding keeping records and business books of companies after the liquidation, we do not understand why this activity is transferred from courts to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and, in addition, the introduction of compensation to companies. So as I said, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce does not represent any form of body of government, but a voluntary association, and we do not consider it appropriate to empower them by law for this form of activity. Given all the legal initiatives that have come from this government in Croatia, no one will want to liquidate the company because the process becomes too complicated and overpriced. We can, in principle, welcome the provision under which at least 1 member of the supervisory board of a company whose shares are traded on a regulated market must be professional in the field of accounting or audit of financial reports, but there is a risk that such a provision is put in place without the determination of the responsibility of the supervisory board for the adoption of financial reports and communication on them with shareholders, as well as on the stricter principles of corporate governance, that we have a satisfactory form of an expert member of the Supervisory Board and without the actual and responsible behaviour of the Supervisory Board in the field of accounting and audit. Finally, but not least, we should refer to the transposition of the provisions of the European Parliament and the Council Directive into national legislation, meaning by respecting all the facts and circumstances resulting from EU membership, we are also taking this opportunity to point out the absurdity of copying EU directives and quasi discussions on their content in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134835	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the promoter, the respected Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will say something, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134836	Mr. Vice-President, respected MPs and MPs, I thank everyone who has been discussing the subject that is on the agenda, so on amendments to the Law on Commercial Society and the Law on the Court Register, thanks to the debate, how much I see most of them support the procedures that will make it easier for entrepreneurs to set up a company, which will make it easier and cheaper and to set up and liquidate a company and therefore I hope that you will support this law and that in another reading, here we will analyse everything that is said here, and we will see possible progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134837	We have two replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Mira Bulja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134838	Minister, I'm asking you one more question that's been asked from, so for two years, it's been the law of this procedure, so it's been a public debate. You've had 13 million kunas so far, which is why this law has not been in the assembly and passed because 2 years is a lot for entrepreneurs and of course a number of hits on our citizens, people entrepreneurs are doing it because of what laws are not passed in the interests of man, but in the interests of the stakeholders who have destroyed this society, and that is most noticeable in the judiciary because we're on the Duing Business list 58, and Macedonia is 11, because we don't bring laws in the interests of our man, but in the interests of campaign-funded groups, and now it's visible and how about Mercedes, the parties that come into power.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134839	Thank you, the reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134840	So this law is much broader than the law that was in the procedure. The law which was in the procedure had nothing at all to do with speeding up the liquidation process, had nothing at all to do with certain segments and certain parts of the process itself, such as facilitating procedures related to the registration of business cases, so that this law is much broader than what was in the procedure. And what you're saying is this law is precisely for the benefit of entrepreneurs, precisely for the benefit of those who want to enter the business world, it actually allows quick registration and much cheaper registration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134841	The next replica of the respected representative Runtic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134842	I thank you, Your Honor, it took you two years to do this to supplement this? When we talk about the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia, we should do something that will impress people who are engaged in entrepreneurship that the young generation, meaning that I said something about a moment ago, says that we will stay here in Croatia, that we will start a company, that we will do business, and this is where so much time needs to be complemented, to change, that, you know what that reminds me of? Let's talk about law enforcement. You've recently had some measures that haven't done anything, now you have a new executive law that's going to be a paraphras of old law, so these are such millimeter shifts that they don't really mean anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134843	The answer of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134844	You said it took me two years to do this, as you know, I'm not a two-year minister at all, but less than that, and I repeat what I said, this is a much wider law than it was in the procedure, and as far as the executive law is concerned, it's certainly not the subject of the agenda, but we've made huge shifts, 60 thousand people are less than those who have been blocked, so they're not anymore, the state has written off a certain part of the debt and claims that it had. Cities, municipalities, companies owned by Cities, the Municipality has also written off part of the claim, and this Law that we offer, which is in public procedure, we think it offers good solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134845	Thank you very much. I'd like to conclude the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-03-21-0.u134846	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Commercial Companies, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 599. The Proposer is the Government. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies is hereby adopted and 1. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final draft law, please vote. I find that most of the votes are 80 ZA, 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies. The report on the work of the Water Services Council for 2017 is the applicant of the Water Services Council, we will vote on this item of the agenda in accordance with Article 44(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the Assembly Working Body, I am voting on the next conclusion, the report on the work of the Water Services Council for 2017, please vote. I find it unanimous 81 to draw the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency body.
