ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171906	I'd have a question about this one, I don't know if it was an addition to the agenda? And about this proposal by my colleague Bulja to vote on the conclusion of renting the assembly, when do you plan on putting it on the agenda? [[Intruder President: No.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171907	This will be put in accordance with the Rules of Procedure when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171908	You've been stalling for seven days.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171909	So we agree to unite this debate. Thank you. So let's get on with the work. Respected MPs and deputies, the Committee on Legislatives and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, have proposed on the basis of Article 1(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 247. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to conduct a united debate on the next 9 points, the plenary session confirmed it, and we will hold a united debate on these points. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Tax Act on Value Added, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Taxation, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxes, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Taxation of Cash Taxation, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxation of Motor Vehicles and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxation of Coffee and Free Drinks. The Proposer shall be the Government under Article. 85. The Constitution and the Art. 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the debate on these items of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law and since we have united the debate, I suggest that clubs can speak for up to 20 minutes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would now ask the representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Zdravko Maric. Mr. Vice President, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171911	Thank you, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. Here is my pleasure again to stand in front of you and present proposals like the President of the Parliament and set out the 9th law of this fourth round of a single tax reform that I would have said, already according to the established principle since 2016 when we started this very extensive business and reform, and this year actually passed several stages before it came here for the first reading in the Croatian Parliament. As regards these nine laws, so on July 26, 2019, presentations were published on the website of the Ministry of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Croatia until then, as well as proposals for amendments to which we are going before the Croatian public, i.e. now before you, the Croatian Parliament. An e-consultation was also published in the form of a previous assessment of the tax code package, totaling 33 comments and between 17 September and 16 October, e-consultation with the interested public was carried out when 382 comments were received. That 382 comments, I will do it a little later when, of course, it explains each of the laws, but we can also assume that it was actually the largest part of them on those core, integrated laws of this proposal of the 4th round of tax exemption within the framework of tax reform, which is VAT and income tax and general tax law. I'll start with the profit tax. The profit tax following those changes that followed mainly from 1.1.2017, we propose further corrections in the system of taxation of profits that primarily go additionally and favour, therefore for the benefit of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. You remember, we said this very clearly and openly in this House, when we were also doing the first changes in the tax system, that we are going from one step to two feet in this way, so we are aware of certain imperfections of such measures, but at the same time, in the context of fiscal possibilities, the idea was to further reduce the profit tax rate for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so at that point and still in force, to those who have 3 million kuna income, to further reduce the rate and lower the rate to 12. Now that threshold for entering 12% rises to 7.5 million kuna, from 3 million to 7.5, covering 93% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, 93% of entrepreneurs from 1.1. provided, of course, that is, assuming that the Croatian Parliament or you vote this tax change package will pay a 12% profit tax rate. Numbered by 160,000 taxpayers, this would mean that 125 410 entities will pay this 12% profit tax rate. Of course, we know that those remaining 7% in total tax revenues and the total profit tax quantum participate more because we also talk to banks, telecoms, electricity and I'm not counting any further. As regards profit tax, of course regarding this measure, it is closely related to what they have already implemented in the tax system, which is that taxpayers can resist and can access the so-called so-called tax system. the monetary principle of corporate tax, again one measure which is important mainly for small and medium-sized people, which, in the event of certain circumstances, fails to charge in time for their invoices issued by one of their customers. In order not to create a tax liability for his profit tax, we opened up the possibility that they could then resist and simply apply so-called. the cash principle or the cash principle. Those who, on today, or with a situation on 31.10. opted or opted for such a principle, we have 1183 in the system, in accordance with, outside or below expectations, it is not some measure which is now something that we have now created some expectation and whether we have fulfilled it or not, it is simply an option that profit taxpayers have as such. We also have compliance with European legislation, harmonisation of course and other regulations, and I would mention from others the measure concerning the reduction of the time limit for the submission of the corporate tax on bankruptcy and status changes for 30 days, in the case of termination of work, liquidation, termination of business to 8 days, the obligation to announce certain actions leading to the termination of business, foreign transfer or in the case of status changes 30 days before the movement of data on the tax advisor if included in the procedure, so these deadlines, of course, also go further in favour of taxpayers. As far as the profit tax system is concerned, the value added tax is a pardon, so the key change in this single-party law package compared to what this high-priced house has already voted on, of which the measure is moving from the law, so there remains a general rate of value added tax 25%. However, there is an extension of the application rate of 13% to prepare and serve meals and sweets in and outside catering facilities according to a special regulation. I will explain here what it means in and outside and out of food and sweets, so to sum up everything that is going to be between the rest and further and specify on some sublegal acts, but practically were you in a catering facility, there ordered food, went out or ate and sweets, delivered to you by the caterer or used the catererer service, applied a unique rate of 13%, unlike some previous times and previous cases when there was a difference between whether you consume these dishes and sweets in a catering facility or outside of it, we have now practically aligned it all together, in fact in this circle of tax changes one of, in a fiscal sense, more significant measures. Also, regarding this previous profit tax, these 7.5 million, there is also a alignment with the value added tax system, harmonisation and with the European Directive, and also an important measure is the equalisation of the application of the tax exemption to the value added to the delivery under certain activities of public interest when the same persons are not transferred to the public authority or the application of the exemption independently of the institutional form, in translation, you have today had, depending on whether you founded or say you provide services to care for the elderly and the powerless, you have had a difference in the treatment of whether you are an institution or perhaps d.o.o., now according to this interpretation and according to this provision that I have said, you will practically have equal treatment, therefore equalising the way of taxation of the same services. As far as income tax is concerned, we have a little more changes here, I'm going to start with the one that may have been so far, and also in the context of public consultation, had the largest number of comments or among those with the largest number of comments, that is to say, a measure for young people, which is precisely what it's specifically about. So, for young people until the age of 25. age reduction of income tax by 100%, for young people between 26 and 30. a reduction in the tax liability by 50%, i.e. a maximum annual tax liability of 360.000,00 kn, with the of course effect of reducing income as we have already communicated several times, even the other day when we presented a proposal for a state budget for the following year cca. 700 million kuna. A very important note, the foundation is not the date of birth, but the year of birth, in translation next year again assuming that this high home votes a package of tax changes and that they enter into force from 1.1.2020, so all of our fellow citizens and those who earn some income or that income tax bonds were born in '95 and later enter into the first measure, so 100% reduction of tax obligations and those between '90. births and '94. as the year of birth, they enter into a reduction in the tax liability by 50% and every year next year that threshold is shifted by 1.g. And we always have very clear and very transparent, I would say this, moving. What is important is also to say that from the beginning when we designed and created this measure we had one question as to how and in what way we put this downsizing into practice, whether at the monthly level or at the annual level, after and comments that we received at the public consultation where I have to admit were not only active taxpayers but also employers, and mainly representatives of accounting associations which, among other things, are an important part of it, we decided to measure and that is what is here for you on the table for the annual account, so if we talk about the monthly level, someone can say what arguments are for the benefit of the monthly account, higher net wages at the monthly level, higher basics for, let's say possible sickness, credit ability, etc., but at the same time very much more administration and adjustment of certain systems which and employers, and accounting professionals can create additional costs. By contrast, the annual accounting is a clean, simpler, young person, an employee, once gets that tax return which can then be used and can plan its own decisions and what is important is that there is practically no administration by either the taxpayer or his employer, all tax administrations will, as well as in general, implement the last few years, the income tax accounting process, so on official duty. Under the same fixed term plan where during the second quarter of that calculation, tax bonds are sent to home addresses, taxpayers have about a month to comment if some error, illogicality or whatever happens afterwards in terms of return of taxes that usually occur during the summer months. What's also important, so when we talk about this particular measure, according to the data that we have in the tax administration, so according to the analysis of all those so-called. JOPPD forms, single tax accounting patterns, cut-offs and contributions, for a total of 367 333 workers who are at their age in these categories, this measure would refer to those of course who are in income tax scissors, so someone who in view of the height of their gross salary and then at the same time, given the height of their basic personal deduction and the possible increase for dependent members, is not in income tax shears, of course this measure cannot have an effect assuming I will use again and appeal to you, of course, all of you as parliamentary representatives, that we act on employers not to use this measure in any other way. So, with the assumption of equal gross, so of 367 333 workers, this measure would apply to them, these are data from a unique pattern, of course most of which refers to income from non-permanent work but you yourself know that there are some other forms of income itself. Moreover, the proposal is also to increase the basic personal deduction throughout the system, from 3800 to 4000 kuna. I'm going to remind you here that this way from the beginning of the tax reform, and now in his own kind of round-up approach, we've raised a basic personal deduction from 2600 and now 4000 kuna. The effect of this measure is about 500 million kuna, and I explained it to you the other day and we will explain it even closer today, in the Law on the implementation of the state budget for next year, exactly how much of that 507 million kuna for which the county, city or municipality according to our calculations and I must again point to the static principle, therefore, not taking into account any growth in wages and employment next year, according to this principle we will return directly to cities, municipalities and counties, again, 15.1. for the first quarter, 15.4. for the second, 15.7 for the third and 15.10th. So in a way pro futuro let's say for each of the three-months. As for enlargement, I just have to remind you for a little while here, you know that, but one of the things that doesn't go to the Croatian Parliament but I use the opportunity, of course every time I have the opportunity to talk about it and that's the coverage of the so-called. the untaxed receipts which are in the section of the income tax regulation, in the management of the finance minister but of course very clearly and transparently shared with the Croatian public, each time and go to the public consultation procedure, already well-known measure 2018, the extension of untaxable receipts for what we have called rewards, bonuses, whatever, the additional 5000 kuna that employers are able to pay to employees without creating any tax liability. In that first year alone, in December last year alone, a billion and 255 million kunas paid for 470, almost 474 thousand workers. The measure is still valid this year, to this day an additional billion 276 million paid. Since 1.9 this year, a rule that allows for food payments has also entered into force, 5,000 kuna is this without any excessive extra control, and for a certain limit of 12,000 kuna per year with so-called. authentic documentation, contract with restaurant this or that etc., submission of accounts, etc. Equally, the cost of accommodation that we've evened out the seasons and the seasons, so I call them so for this payphone, don't mind. This measure is therefore also to be taken with the presentation of credible documentation in force. It is similar for kindergartens if the employer pays kindergartens to his employees as early as 1.9. has been able to place that category under untaxable receipts. With this proposal, because we legally need to change something to re-rectify the rule, so the scope of the receipt is expanded, the receipts that natural persons receive from donations collected in humanitarian actions and publicly advertised actions that have a general useful purpose. This is about the precision of the norm. So far, we've had in law specified when it comes to treatment, costs of treatment, accommodation, transportation, etc. It was in our very recent past that a few quotes from that law where we realized that we did a good thing in those first tax changes that we in some way put it into shape and complemented it specifically with the costs of transport. In this case, only the norm is now specified for all other functions. Rewards to students during practical work and teaching up to the prescribed amount, fees to students during dual education to the prescribed amount and payment of premiums of additional and supplementary health insurance paid by the employer for the benefit of its worker to the prescribed amount. These are also non-taxable receipts by mentioning for students during their practical work and teaching, as well as during dual education, equal treatment with scholarships. You know that in the last round we have expanded or placed the possibility that scholarships, regardless of their height, do not enter that censorship when you as a parent have your child as a abstention member. Now we're equating that, so not only rewards excellence in terms of scholarship, but rewards and work in terms of, here, this particular case, teaching or practical work. Equivalence of tax treatment of the write-offs of the taxpayer on income from independent activity with write-offs by the taxpayer and also with a view to achieving administrative discharge, a very important measure mainly for those employers who already have mentioned treatment of non-taxable incomes in a significant number of their employees, which is, for the payment of non-taxable receipts, from 1 January 2020, will not be required from the taxpayer, whether we are talking about the employer who pays and fulfils it, whether we are talking about the employee to meet and send these various kinds of statements, pure administration and paperwork in terms of which I have received so many non-taxable receipts. The tax administration, according to the regulation, which is set out in the law, will, of course, be asked by the employer to confirm that this employee is working with him to provide information as much as he has received untaxed receipts in the course of that year, possibly from, for example, a specific case, the previous employer. So, no paperwork, no administration, we had an example of an appeal, among other things in public consultation and one company that has as many as 600 seasonal workers, that means basically that each of them has to fill out such a kind of document, it's going to be done by the IRS. Also, for the account of former workers' salaries, an insight into those so-called. PK cards, tax cards. The change is also in terms of the belonging of the rental income. You remember the topic of flat-rate renters, we've been in HS a lot of times, and I think it's easy to check, a good part of you even in that first round has urged us to imagine, consider what we've done and here, now we come before you with a suggestion that income from renting, that flat-rate is attributed to the place itself, and, let's say, real estate that's rented, not as the principle of full income tax, according to the tax payer's residence, so that acquirer. We are actually talking about a total tax system of 27% of those who earn income from renting, i.e. that this property is not in that place itself, i.e. there is a difference between the residence of the real estate and the taxpayer itself. In this way we specify, with the distribution going towards the same key that is well known in the system, i.e. the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. Also, in public consultation one of the more frequent comments, as well as before the public consultation, was to do something by precision of so-called. the characteristics of non-permanent work and to protect certain employers under the pressure of the so-called ‘independence’. unfair competition. Through income tax, the Income Tax Act and the General Tax Law specify clearer provisions according to which there is a difference between what is characterized by unsustainable work, or what is not. So here in law we give the principle part, that this behavior control, that it is financial control and relationship between parties, and in the income tax Regulation itself, it will be more detailed. The general tax law immediately refers to this measure, the extension of the provisions so on seemingly legal transactions in part of the use of tax benefits with a purpose and purpose for which they are not intended, therefore the principle or principle, I am not a lawyer, but here I have learned something further, the essence above the form. So, as is the practice that the OECD advocates and, as in practice, in many EU Member States and in general in the tax law regulation, we further specify it here, I repeat again with one exclusive intention, which I mentioned earlier, the protection of real employers, from potential unfair competition to which they are exposed. So nothing other than that and no restriction or any other interpretation of it. All the time we've been proposing and expanding the threshold for entering the VAT system, all the time we've made a whole series of benefits for flat-rate taxation, we're doing one kind of thing, let's say that we call on taxpayers to take into account the benefits that the pausal taxation system offers them. So, on our part, it is a very clear appeal to the pausal way of taxation, aware of a number of certain imperfections of this measure, but also, taking into account the entire tax system. But here we are talking about an opportunity that was visible that part in certain segments and, I'm not going to say, just abused but used for purposes that were not originally envisaged. As far as fiscalization is concerned, since January 1st we already know, so the fiscalization of the machine is going, that's what's already been voted on, since January 1st is also the introduction of so-called. QR code, easier and faster check of a issued account in the tax administration. Now, what goes into effect also with, if we vote these laws from the beginning of next year is related to so-called. offers, orders, etc. The various types of paper you get on the table, for example, the catering facility or in another, is not just about the catering that is issued before the bill. Therefore, only those obligors who issue such documents, the implementation of fiscalisation of accompanying documents, so with the allocation of that JIR number and the obligation to fiscalise accompanying documents do not exclude the obligation to fiscalise an account. So the offer of a table that may come to you, according to this, should be a fiscalized document from now on, however, does not exclude the obligation to fiscalise the real account. Also, the definition of a programme solution that is in line with the implementation of fiscalisation. As regards the specific tax on motor vehicles is administrative, administrative cooperation, so in the case of a special tax on motor vehicles, we are changing the provision that exempts are prescribed from paying the administrative fee on the acquisition of work and motor vehicles, I will visit you, it was one of the measures that meant the administrative discharge that you no longer have to go to 3 or 4 addresses when transferring the car, the motor vehicle, just one. However, we have seen certain ways to use it, again, in a way that is not originally envisaged and now very clearly and in more detail, to prevent, among other things, the avoidance of payment of the administrative fee by transfer between the connected persons, the administrative fee, you remember itself, is practically halved in relation to the then giving or the imposition that was in force. Also this administrative cooperation in the field of tax, it is a more or less full alignment with European legislation. As for excise duties and special taxes, we continue the practice we started with road transport, which goods, which passengers, are now spreading similar to or the same principle to rail transport, which is the possibility of, of course, adequate documentation and reasoning, the return of a portion of excise duty to a minimum as regards diesel fuel for rail transport of goods and passengers, and in the case of electronic energy charges in rail transport, we can now practically say that the whole transport sector, at least this land sector is even and there is no difference between passengers or goods, and there is no difference between road or rail. Also, the proposal is that in the Law on Special Tax on Coffee and Non-alcoholic Drinks, it has nothing to do with coffee, but only with non-alcoholic drinks, so the law is called, changed way, the existing way of taxation that has been since '94. which says a fixed amount on a certain litre, specifically 40,00 kn per 100 liters of non-alcoholic beverages since '94. By the day of today, we are going to change this or we are going to keep one fixed part, but introduce a variable part that will depend on the height and percentage of sugar in a certain amount of non-alcoholic beverages, details of this will be prescribed as well as on the taxation of tobacco and tobacco processing, sub-legal acts, specifically by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course we will always take into account elements such as tobacco and tobacco processing, as well as on this, market situation, elasticity, consumer preferences, but also the fact that the Republic of Croatia has the longest land border with non-EU countries, so that there are no misunderstandings that we have accidentally ignored, of course, and you as well as the public will be informed in due time, however, here is only the change of principles and we have dialogue with the representatives of interested producers of these categories and the comments that have not been relevant in any way. All together when this is summed up, the effect of the fourth round of tax disbursement is 2 billion to 2 billion HRK 400 million, when all of this is summed up and round the single tax reform through four rounds of tax discharge, not counting the untaxable receipts, is someone can say that there is no savings here in the tax sense, is possible that we would not even be paid that there are no measures, if we put them aside, and you see by the figures, we are talking about billions that have been paid in this 2.g., when we are just focusing on the effects of tax changes in these four circles, we are talking about the tax discharge of 9 billion kuna, that is, again, a static representation or a static assessment which, of course, when it is placed in the dynamic category that each tax discharge has brought with us now, and the promotion of investment, economic activity that has had a positive impact on the money, and the money that we have already had a significant impact. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171912	Here you are, colleague Petrov, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171913	The Honorable President, I did not ask for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I wanted to report for a break, only to this effect, if I ask for a break in the name of the MOST Club about the debate precisely on these topics that were presented so that I could consult, what I can say is not just ministers that people who have high salaries like you and have the ability to edit the system, have high salaries to use tax reliefs for children, and those who have low salaries, and 800 to 900 000 are in the Republic that connect the end with the end do not have the same benefits, and you can make it possible, today you have to make it possible, it is not fair that people who are richer have higher salaries, therefore get even higher salaries, and people who are literally at the poverty border don't do it, it simply isn't fair, today you have 800 to 900 000 employees in the Republic and you know very well that have so many low wages that the new system can be made for the 3. At that moment people will not survive, people will be given the opportunity to live as well as to live in Croatia as well as to have no reason to move out of Croatia, only in the last 6-7 years we have lost half a million people and people do not leave Croatia because they do not love it, people cannot survive it, and you have a duty to make the system fair. Allow people to live politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171914	The apartment will be approved. Is anyone else picking up for a break, if we don't continue at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes. We have 18 replicas. The first one's a colleague of Maras. It's 10:00.56.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171915	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11:11 A.M.]] We have quite a series of replicas on the presentation of Minister Marić. The first replica is the respected representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171916	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues are interested in a simple question, and first I will debate with the thesis that something is returning to the citizens, giving, etc. what HDZ and Minister Maric often say. So we need to be clear that in 2020, five and a half billion kuna taxes will be charged to citizens. So let's not talk about something coming back if we have five and a half billion kunas more taxed than citizens and businesses next year. On the other hand, it is not clear to us, and it is not clear to me why Mr. Minister, we are not going to increase our personal deduction more significantly, which would allow us to cover more people with a higher salary increase and the second thing you've been pushing into tourism for three years to 25%. Has that measure been missed, what do you think of that now? What are you returning it for? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171917	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171918	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, as far as I'm concerned, I believe that maybe the largest part of these replicas will focus on exactly how much tax burden is, is greater or less. So let's look at each of us individually as a taxpayer in 2016 and today. How much income tax we pay, how much value added tax as a company, how much individual income tax? So we taxed the citizens and entrepreneurs. The effects of this discharge have a positive side on the economy, as I just said, on investments, incentives for employment, consumption, etc., and among other things have a positive return effect on the budget itself, and these revenues are expensive. I'll remind you again, first year we're cutting profit tax for everyone from 20 to 18, for small and medium to 12. That first year, we have almost 15% more income than the profit tax in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171919	Thank you. Before we continue to welcome students of the Antun Mihanović elementary school gallery from Slavonski Brod. The next is a replica of the respected MP Batinic. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171920	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Minister, a special tax on road motor vehicles is the county's income and we know when it was introduced in 2013. etc., however, there is one thing that he has a mark of property tax, and since we do not have a tax on property in Croatia, it would be logical then that tax has its own purpose. Obviously, this tax serves exclusively for consumption, of course based on the distribution of county budgets, so my proposal will go even though it is not subject to an amendment and supplementing that part of the article, that it is re-purposed or that this tax is intended to be the same as from the registration of a vehicle road fee to go to the ZUCs or to schedule one part of that tax on the county road administrations, and one part of the tax on local self-government. I'll discuss it more in my discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171921	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171922	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, as we have discussed in some other bodies in the Croatian Parliament, so I would always say open and ready for different types of dialogue. At the same time, however, we have to give one general finding, remembering ourselves from the first day we opened, and in the Croatian Assembly very often concerns the budgets of local units, so not only the county but the towns and municipalities, we often mention whether or not something enters into those ratios, mainly for the mass of salaries, whether it has a specific purpose or is treated as a general source of reception, so our idea has been since the beginning of tax changes and tax reform to strengthen and further strengthen the budget of units of local and regional self-government. They are made available to them by this strengthened fiscal force so that they can channel this in an adequate way, whether we are talking about investment and similar projects from their own resources, whether co-financed by European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171923	The next is a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I welcome this fourth round of tax reform, especially the change in income tax for young people. I did a little bit, not even a lot of work, but I looked at what it means on average for a young person who gets a job in the 20th year and with these releases by the age of 30. This is for us, for the average salary at the monthly level of 664 kuna, on the annual 8000 kuna, for the first 5 years it is 40,000 kuna and another 20,000 kuna for another 5 years, so a total of 60,000 kuna will be released in the next 10 years, based on this tax reform by a young person who is employed in the 20th year. That's a great demographic measure. When it connects to other measures, other resources related to demographics tell us how much the government, for example, worked on a demographic restoration of Croatia this year alone. That is why I welcome exactly this measure concerning young people in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171925	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171926	Thank you very much. So here's to your comment, or the replica, we've spoken very clearly from the beginning, and we're still standing on this, so aware of the fact that the tax system can't solve all our challenges and problems, and demographics and mainly problems or challenges that we face in the field of demographicism, especially for young people, or when we talk about a segment of young citizens where happiness is, that we can only solve it with a tax system, but again, the tax system must give some incentive. We have proposed one measure that when you look at it separately only from some tax perspective someone will say, tax expert, neutral tax expert and I will confirm it, that such a measure in the tax sense is not perfect has its anomalies, but we are aware of these all imperfections and consciously we come before you with such a proposal to give a clear message and demographic but also social and economic nature of this measure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171927	Mr. Maric, you're an expert in finance, so I'm interested in you as an expert.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171928	Please, colleague Pernar, you've probably announced on your facebook again show. .../Intruder Pernar: When the HDZ is thinking of returning 24 million kuna... Pulled over... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I give you the order of article 239.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171929	Mr. Rainer, when HDZ thinks about returning 24 million kunas, here's the finance expert he's an expert, can he explain it to us?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171930	On the basis of Article 240(1), I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171931	Ha, Mr. Rainer, you can, but still your question remains and is not answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171932	On the basis of Article 240(2), I would like to give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171933	.../Intruder Pernar: Croatian people are interested when they think HDZ returns 24 million kuna./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171934	On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the distance from the session.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171935	.../Intruder Pernar: Here's how you act instead of saying, that we'll get that money back from HDZ./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171936	Please step away from the session. ... On the basis of Article 241(1), I give you the measure of distance from the double-term session. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm giving a 10-minute break so the guard can move away from the representative who announced this earlier show announced that you would remove it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's 11:19 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 11:30 A.M.]] Now we continue with normal work, and the next replica will be the respected representative of Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171938	Dear Minister Maric. You know that old wise saying, the more laws, less justice, and I'd say as many circles of tax reform as possible, the less benefits. You're talking about tax discharges of as much as nine billion kunas, it's not true, it's not true. The tax burden is constantly rising, so you're monitoring the statistics from 19.2% in 2011, and now it's 22% of GDP, you've reduced VAT to food, prices haven't fallen, and the VAT difference has been taken by traders in their pockets. On the other hand, you want to help young people in fact discriminate, I suggest you change in front of the party We change Croatia a simple model, increase the non-taxable part of income to 7,500 kuna to stop outflows, make it a viable simple real measure. This way, if you do this, you won't help the workers, or the pensioners, or the entrepreneurs, that's the real truth, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171939	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171940	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm going to stick to more arguments this time, less folk sayings. As I have just replicated or responded to the replica, therefore, each tax form and tax system as a whole should be observed. That 9 billion isn't some imaginary number, it's a very real number. Each of these tax burden reductions is visible in each tax form and from the first day we advocate as widespread and as horizontal as possible that as many taxpayers in different spheres as possible are affected. I repeat again, not only does tax discharge stimulate economic activity and has a positive return effect in the budget, and then these ratios that you are talking about are improving, but we must be aware that, through the simplification and application of tax regulations, we have had a transparent impact on both the easier way of collecting tax revenues and the reduction of tax evasion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171941	The next replica is Djujic's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171942	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister. Today, when we talk about tax revenues, I am interested in your opinion of minimum wage and not in the amount of what it should be or what it is or whether or not you think that those entrepreneurs who pay the minimum wage don't pay taxes to the state. To quote a senior state official whose government you are sitting in, he said that some entrepreneurs who pay, pay minimum wages do not pay the state taxes they should pay. I wonder if you agree with that, do you think those entrepreneurs who pay minimum wage in any way cheat on the state? And why in this fourth round of tax laws didn't you introduce a tax payment by assessing HDZ leadership how much should it be? Here would be one measure according to the announcements of the party leader whose government you're sitting in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171943	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171944	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So as far as minimum wages are concerned, pay levels here I'm going to refer to myself a little bit, I hope that I can do business amongst other things and to a slightly respected representative who, in the interpretation of the break, referred to a coma, as much as I do and how it helps through tax changes. I'll do it again. The tax system does not define who has the pay, pays is defined by the contractual relationship between the two employees and the employer, but by tax changes you can give some additional incentive that this gross salary, which is then defined in that net sense, is greater if the employer is also holding adequate examples of our intensity, that means that it does not correct gross to the lower, but also some other measures. The numbers are very clear, when you look at the DZS and there will be opportunities in the next lines to respond, how much they grew the lowest, and how much they paid the most, so I'll explain the figures a little later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171945	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171946	Thank you. Dear Minister. We have been talking for days about taking an additional 5 billion kuna tax to Croatian citizens, with EUROSTAT announced that Croatia is one of the four members in which the tax press is on the largest rise. You also have tax consultants such as Mr. Zgombić who claim that the tax press has not been reduced but that you have reduced in one place, in another place we have an evening, and the fact is that taxes and tax presses are on the rise. You also said that fellow Petrov said that the state does not determine wages. Mr. Petrov was not talking about it, but he was talking about the fixed amount of child's allowance, not the defeat relief because these tax reliefs for child's allowance aren't covering around 800,000 of our people. So he was talking about Kinder Geld.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171947	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171948	Thank you very much. So here's the third time I'm going to try one more time, so when we talk about tax evasion, it can be very clearly observed on each individual example, so each of us as a representative as to how this reflected on our salaries, how this reflected on our consumption of certain products, if one of us or one of our neighbors has some kind of business subject very clearly seen through profit tax systems and that I'm not counting now. So I've already apostropheeded this element of a return positive effect on the economy, or so on the budget, when we talk about an element that I've also just replicated on the issue of ejaculation. Here is an example of the already quoted EUROSTAT, or the European Commission, "the VAT gap, this is the difference between what is calculated in the EU methodology and should be charged in relation to what is really charged at the level of all EU Member States and individual ones". Croatia is there at the very top in terms of the efficiency of the collection and more importantly, the gap is constantly decreasing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171949	The next replica is the esteemed representative of the God of Petrov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171950	You're a very effective minister, because as far as the charge goes, you even charge up front before the goods are sold. So you have a tax advance, so on the basis of last year you charge in advance for next year, a man doesn't have to sell anything, it's not clear to me, and we've suggested it and we're going to propose it through the amendments to cancel it because it's not fair. On the other hand, be honest and say no tax breaks, why, 20% of GDP comes from taxes today, the same as it did 10 years ago, and at the time I tell you about tax benefits or fixed child benefits, so it is not fair that if a person who has a higher salary has an extra salary if he has two, three or more children, and a person who has a low salary and is exempt from taxes regardless of what has the same number of children, has 0,00 kn, is not fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171951	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171952	Thank you very much. Your Honor, it is a small matter of one minute to respond to this particular part of the issue and principles and principles of taxation of income tax, I hope that it will be after the opportunity, I can easily report for an additional word, so that we further elaborate the subject, is not one principle and it is not a unique principle that only applies. For many years, the Republic of Croatia has a income tax system which is thus defined as having a certain level of progress, as soon as you have more than one rate of income tax is practically visible progress, if you have such a system as it is, which is that you have deductions, whether you have a basic personal deduction, whether for dependent members, is conditionally stated in the above part of the gross-to-net account, so that there is no reduction in the tax liability but a tax base one can draw such conclusions. However, I remind you again of the first round of tax changes where we are right now, and that was the least mentioned in HS, then it was all of a general interest how much coffee will cost in the local cafe, was actually our very clear measure to increase deductions for dependent members mainly with children with marked progress for each of the next children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171953	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Branko Grcic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, I have a very clear question for you, is it possible that you changed the concept of food into a legal solution to avoid reducing VAT to wine and beer? You know what wine as a product for our people on the ground means, here yesterday was Martinia, so we could all once again see what wine means to Zagorc, to the Međimurci, to my Dalmatians, to the Istrians, to the Slavons, to this change and this bizarre move will actually remain on 25% of the VAT, and it shouldn't. So, when VAT was shrinking in catering, then it was meant to include wine and beer, maybe I'm wrong, but here's why I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171955	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171956	Your Honor, we have made this very clear and defined in the provisions, so I have nothing further than to comment, just as I have said in the introduction, I can only repeat, since I have been following your discussions since the first round of tax discharge I have to admit that none of the representatives I think have been so affirmative of this or the activities of the catering system, so I believe that you will be very much seen guest in each of the catering facilities of this and here I will take advantage of, but I will only explain briefly if I know that you are interested in the other representatives, the mentioned element of the adjective, who, for example, if he was referring to the tax on profit, will be cut off by the foundation of certain historical data that we have on each taxpayer, and so also on the taxpayer's income tax, is cut off, but at any time that tax taxpayer is able to pay off and so on a quarterly basis, so will be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171957	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Matjan, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171958	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, even in the first round of tax reforms or in the Law on the financing of units of local self-government income tax has become the exclusive income of units of local regional self-government or municipalities, cities and counties. In all the other rounds of tax reforms, tax on income is exactly the base, the most focused on it is on discharge, tax discharge, so that's exactly what part of the income that concerns, or what is the source of the local self-government units, so wouldn't it be more honest for Minister Maric to say that for all these discharges than these vast billions is due not to the central but local state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171959	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171960	Thank you very much, Your Honor, and thank you very much for the comment you have well recognised, one of the intensities in the second round of tax evasion we have changed this Tax Act, on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, remember yourself, these were the circumstances when the good part of you was in a bit of an awkward situation is practically for this law, but given the situation you must vote against it, but you yourself were aware of it and you know well, therefore the effects of this law only in the first year 18.4% on average of more income for all counties, cities and municipalities, in the follow-up of this year to the day of another 10%, so we are talking about fine amounts that are rightly in the good part of the units of local and regional self-government used, it is for investments, infrastructure projects, co-financing of European funds, while in some others we are working and we are talking and we are just talking about the weight gain. As for who is more and what is credit, we propose suggestions, merit is all expensive, and I have no intention of praising or avoiding this or that local self-government is part of the general state. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171961	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Curray, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171962	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with your associates, you mentioned 3 parts of the follow-up of the cereal crafts, I hope that in the final proposal we will get something that is justly not happening to avoid in obvious examples, but certainly not as a rule that in this way they punish the pausal crafts that consciously reduce their pensions, knowingly reducing themselves to some future for current incomes that are up to 300,000,00 kn and that is their choice and we should respect it. The second part of the story is interested in me because we are now in the first reading, so he would also make a proposal regarding changes in income tax for young people to somehow find a model that cannot be misused to refer to craftsmen, so those who receive income from independent work and younger than 30 years of age who are now not included in this coverage are not content to try and thus go out and meet them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171963	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171964	Thank you very much. Dear Representative, here is the basis and our analysis of the tax authorities all this time practically the most they recognize as phenomenal forms or areas of use of regional benefits, on the one hand this so-called. covert non-permanent work. On the other hand, changes in organizational forms have been common, it's a little j.d.o., so it's a little bit of a twist, so it's a little bit more d.o.o. etc. and also business through a series of related companies. It all goes together with the element that I was talking about, and I initially pushed us actually into this intention to make it more clear, to know through norm, so yet again I say the essence above the norm but to make it clearer and transparent for implementation, ultimately to achieve the effect that is sought, I repeat once again we are transporting a flat tax method, not to do anything against it, but of course we must eliminate unfair competition. The behaviour control, financial control, the relationship between parties are these three key features that are within the law and will be further specified by the Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171965	The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171966	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Maric, I understand the frustration of our opposition colleagues when you speak with this fourth round that there will be a disbursement of 9 billion kuna for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and when that number is divided by theirs, with the number of inhabitants then it turns out somewhere around 2200 kuna. When changing and supplementing the Income Tax Act, you actually said that fees to students in dual education are not considered taxable income. Maybe even because of the citizens themselves, you should say whether it actually means that they don't actually go into this censorship for a abstention member. So are they entering or not entering the censorship for a abstention member? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171967	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171968	Thank you, Your Honor, once again, of course, and on the question that this is once again specified, I will repeat as we have done with the scholarships so now we are also doing with these fees and awards for work either professional or dual education system. Which means that, on the one hand, such a type of income is considered untaxable and does not enter this censorship, which means that their parents are worth not having their children create a tax problem in the sense that since 1.1, these pairs may actually be kunas or thousands of kunas out of that census. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171969	The next replica is the respected MPs Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171970	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Ministers, you have said and proposed in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act that the future tax on renting rooms and apartments becomes the income of settlements, municipalities, cities where this room is located and not more like where the renter is located. It is certainly a commendable change that will be good for all of us in the coast. Here in our Sibenik-Knin County, the town of Vodice has a specific over 60% of renters who do not have a residence in the town of Vodice. The city of Šibenik exactly 64% and certainly with these changes despite the use of our county's resources so far, our municipality and the city's income was not ours, and now it will certainly contribute to better and better quality, higher incomes and thank you for their sake.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171971	Minister Maric's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171972	Thank you very much for the replica. I'll use it to connect with two numerical indicators and one note. So pausal renters are seen over the years in significant growth, the situation on 31.10. practically 98 thousand 231 registered flat-rate borrower. Only five years earlier was at about 60 grand. Total income is about 151 million. I said a little while ago so I'll repeat 27% is practically related to this measure. So that's where we have the difference between a residence conditionally said real estate and the residence of a taxpayer. The second thing I will use from the first reading to the second reading is the assumption, of course, if, within the Parliament's conclusion, the first reading is adopted and that we have a second reading at the end of November or early December and that a package of laws will be passed sometime in mid-December, there is not much time for city and municipal bodies to pass formal decisions. We'll make it clear in the norm about the second reading, and you know for a fact that last time, we were flexible about the deadlines for everyone to arrive on time, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171973	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of the Dolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171974	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you are particularly proud of this measure for young people as you call it the reductions in annual income tax. However, I would say there is some discrimination here. Those young people who go to college, study, and let's say five years even study at some point and finish college how much will they feel about this measure of 100% reduction in annual income tax? Very little or almost not even under the conditions of relatively fast employment. So that measure for them is discriminatory. What is the message of this legal provision? If you immediately start working at 18, 19 years you will be using those 100% decreases but if you go to college, if you go to study you are actually the 100% almost never going to use it and you can only have a half measure of 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171975	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171976	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, you know very well that as far as I'm concerned, I just said a few days ago, a matter of aspect and principle, we're aware of certain imperfections. But when we open this second topic that I'm not qualified to talk about, I can say my opinion. I find it not discriminatory that we, among other things, already in the tax system have almost the same measure for pensioners, and also for young people there is a possibility for first-time employment to reduce the basics or reduce contributions to health insurance which probably did not raise as much dust as this measure because it does not normally apply to income tax, our contributions are always below the radar. And as for who it's going to affect, here you and I can give our own examples when we've enrolled, when we've finished colleges, someone can also interpret that this can also be one measure and encourage students to finish their colleges early in the work market system. Anyone can interpret it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171977	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ante Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171978	Thank you, Vice President. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. As regards the Law on Tax on Motor Vehicles and the Law on Value Added Tax, we know that electric vehicles are exempt from the law regarding motor vehicles, but I was pictured of this presidency next year being a major topic of environmental protection for the European Council, and I was wondering if you and you in the ministry were thinking about removing value added tax for the purchase of electric vehicles? It may cause some effect on the budget, but when we look at that exactly those people who don't pay for fuel are more spent, then the effect would be much better on the budget itself, and maybe it would be a little strong message sent that we are still for the green economy. And all we have to think about is that we have one big manufacturer in Croatia right now connected to electric vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171979	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171980	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So here are colleagues from the Customs Service whose authority and part-round work of the excise taxation system, or taxation by special taxes, and motor vehicles. You know that practically one of the measures that we have taken in the tax discharge package and brought in was the discharge and reduction on average of about 33 to 35% for all vehicles to reduce the specific tax. There we did the same things that are more and more in favor of mostly larger families, so cars with 8, 9 seats etc., etc. We are ready and open as we were then and now for dialogue and conversation with distributors and car dealers in the Republic of Croatia, we watch and monitor what is happening outside the new directive, new regulations, new standards, new standards. I don't want Croatia to be what someone says, a dump of old and used cars. As for the possible release from VAT, everything is prescribed by the directives. You remember how much communication we needed to do with the European Commission that we can even get the opportunity to release the part of the VAT in the purchase of those 50%. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171981	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of the Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171982	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers. So on EUROSTAT's data, the total income of the general government is almost half of GDP, and this so-called The tax bite of contributions and taxes was never more than 38.6%. We ministers burn tires, too much torque, and we have no results. I agree with you that you are trying to relieve entrepreneurship, raise competitiveness, but are we going to do this by these measures? In the debate, I'll say more about it. And now I'm asking you, you're starting with a real estate tax, and I think it went one wrong way. In the Republic of Croatia truth should tax property and wealth, capital, but not in such a way that it goes from below. You've made that main pea what you've mixed with the communal fee, leave the communal fee, start with the property and capital tax, but from the top of the richest layer in that case you'll achieve the ultimate goal, which is that the labour taxes are transferred more to property taxes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171983	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171984	Thank you very much. Your Honor. Also a short minute for a real estate tax debate and a comparison with a utility fee, but I'll say it briefly. You remember our proposal, I mean a relic of the past that was in no way intended mainly for those with a lower, say, property condition to increase the load, but for them it would be even lower today at this moment that we have practically pay equally unrelated to when real estate is made, as it is equipped and viewed clean and only the physical characteristics of real estate in terms of squareness or cubicity. As for this part again, the share of taxes in GDP, the basic personal deduction from 2,600 to 4,000 was raised, the profit tax from 20 to 18% for 93% of entrepreneurs, the abolished contribution for unemployed, the abolished contribution for labour injuries, the abolished tax on the company, the reduced value added tax for a whole series of products from 25 to 13 for non-receptive medicines to 5%, these are tax exemptions that we made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171985	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171986	I thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the respectable minister, the first thing is not true that we at the SDP club were against that law on the financing of the local self-government unit, we voted abstentionally with several separate opinions against. And why were we restrained? Because you have completely funded local self-government units on income tax and we have warned you. So what happens now? Well, it happens that by actually income tax interventions, you generate one instability in the incomes of the local self-government unit. Now it's fortunate that you have conjuncture, so you can actually patch it up to express it that way, when we enter the recession it won't be possible anymore, unfortunately and that's a fact, it's the only fact about it. So model complete I don't think it is, well, we should think about other sources of funding. And here's to briefly look at these releases in the youth tax system, no one has anything against them, of course, that young people have bigger salaries, but first you have communicated that the aim of the measure is to reduce the tax liability of young people, so they feel the effect immediately at the payoff of the first salary, now the effect will unfortunately feel only in the summer of 2021.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171987	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171988	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I apologize if I've said something wrong or incorrect in any way... I mean everything is as ours is talking, everything is weave and vote can be checked so we can easily see who and how and whether or not he supported it, and here I will soon refer to this last thing you said. We will remember one and the other that you said about this annual calculation is I ask you the same as the local leader what is more preferred to you in terms of your budget but it is also from the perspective of young people living in the area of your municipality or city and in terms of their salaries or employment. What I can also say is that I think that we have very clearly shown the signal but with measures how and how we treat local self-government, I repeat again, their budgets and budgets of all of you at local level have been significantly increased, the possibility of additional investment activities is open and we are always ready for dialogue on some further steps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171989	The next replica is the respected representative Peric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171990	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, the Honorable Minister with his associates. Here I am thinking, and I am particularly sensitive also to small entrepreneurs who are in big trouble and in the collection of their invoices and their services and goods, so this measure, which allows up to 7.5 million kuna of traffic and the small entrepreneur can actually enter the system at the cost of realisation, is very important, because then it enhances the whole system and speeds up, and in addition, what you have made possible through the amendments to the Income Tax Act, i.e. regulations more correct where payments to employees have proved to be very effective and very favourable to stimulate employees in various forms through the Regulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171991	The reply to the replica of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171992	Thank you well-respected MPs, so here's exactly what you're saying, so you can see for yourself that some principle we've taken from the beginning, so within the possibilities that fiscal policy creates in terms of budget, so since I've already mentioned several times all the extra income we don't use and we don't spend in terms of increasing the expenditure side of the budget but also in one way that I'm going to characterise smart or wise but on everyone it's estimated whether or not it was aimed at reducing public debt or tax discharge. And that's why these four circles are one single tax reform. Of course, where happiness is in each of these circles, and overall that space exists even more. Because you know the appetites of all of us are, of course, large in this part and so are we in the Ministry of Finance because we see very clearly, every tax discharge so far has had quite a positive return effect on the economy and on the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171993	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171994	Thank you very much. Mr. Ministers on these 4 rounds of tax reform I will speak later, however, I would like to touch on one topic that is very important, socially very important, but unfortunately, quite unresolved and that is sport. We all like to boast and show when sport achieves success, but also many, especially on the other side of the assembly, like to throw mud on that sport when it suits them. And I think it's one of the important things, but that's where the Ministry of Finance can only work when the State Sport Office does its thing. I think that, through income tax, profit tax and additional value tax, we should finally clearly define sports funding. In this way, we will encourage a branch that is the strongest instrument to combat the unacceptable behavior of young people. And other things are only our athletes we will solve the great inconveniences that can arise because of unclear legal regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171995	The reply of the respected Minister Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171996	Thank you, well-respected replicator and commentary, I can say that I fully agree with you. So one unique but sustainable and systematic way of financing such an important link of our society that is generally the most united of all our citizens and fellow citizens mainly with these successes. And on the other hand, of course, when we look at the challenges faced by sports and sports workers not only through tax changes but also in other ways and visions, we need to provide a real source of funding that will be both transparent and predictable in some way and that they can be managed accordingly. You know, in the tax system, there's been a provision for many years on the possibility of various kinds of donations and similar ones that are tax-recognition, the cost of those 2% of total incomes. And it's at everyone's disposal horizontally. However, even when we look at numbers, not all of us use this measure so that we would like it to increase there, we are always ready and open to talk and to expand as well as some other tax changes that can contribute but still to a wider story of systematic funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171997	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I open the debate and the first Club of Representatives will be the SDP and time will be shared by respected representatives Boris, first fellow Greeks and then by fellow Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171998	Thank you, Mr. Vice President... My colleagues and colleagues. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So these tax changes in the fourth round, we've already heard it very much through these replicas. I'm going to begin by quoting a statement that's already been mentioned, about like this. The finance minister gave one of them something and he took something from the others and that's how things in the global line up. For example. Before the beginning of the so-called In 2017, companies were cut off all tax reliefs in the profit and income tax system. The 6.6 billion kuna of discharges that the government boasted at other items has been compensated and clearly exceeded but the bill is not shown to the public. This is said by the tax expert, one of the most respected in Croatia. Furthermore, of course this Eurostat report that has already been mentioned here for the government came at a rather awkward moment, an unfortunate moment, so we are representing the fourth round of tax reform, we are talking about a huge tax discharge and Eurostat data is actually completely defusing us. Unfortunately, but that's the way it is. So here the thesis has already been made that the total tax burden, meaning the press with three EU countries, Poland, Romania and Luxembourg in Croatia was the largest compared to 2018, 2017, was 0.8% and in the last 4 years the tax burden has increased by around 1.3 points. I found it particularly interesting to listen to last week, I was at a conference of economists in Opatija where, for example, the former Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. President. Dalic had one very, very inspiring lecture, in which I would say among the conclusions, one of the key structural problems of Croatia and the Croatian economy is that the tax burden is on the rise. And that you should do anything to turn that trend around. So I'm saying this just to tell you that what we here in the opposition position are saying is not a grudge, but that it's simply a call to very specific figures and I'm saying, I'm not going to question the thesis here that the tax burden would be even greater for a few billion kunas maybe, that all these circles of tax reform were not but what was, it's not enough because the total tax burden is absolutely but even more worrying is growing more relatively. There's a problem. So tax discharge isn't enough and why isn't it enough? Now that's a key question and why it's not possible to go more radically, more to some measures that would really represent and relatively above all, and less likely and absolute discharge, it's really hard to achieve at this point, right? Well, because it's not on the bulky side of the budget, but not just the state, but the local self-government unit, above all, there are no real cuts and reforms that would stabilise public finances in the long term, so state and local. No, the measures that go that way. Here is my colleague Lalovac and many last week talked about how good it is as long as there is economic growth and when the budget is relatively decently full, practically 4% of nominal annual growth, it allows a very simple and comfortable situation for the government. But what if there really is a new crisis, what do we do? So we have to create the foundations in the long, medium term and then in the long term for a much more comfortable situation in such periods of shock, crisis and adverse circumstances. And there is, unfortunately, no response at this time, but absolutely no answer because you see in the end, the result is that the public sector in Croatia is one of the largest in Europe at all and especially among the transition countries. And we have to keep that in mind. So somewhere around 47% of the general public sector is participating or having a share in the GDP created in Croatia, I say, without certain reforms in particular of the public sector, as well as the system of governance of the public sector, and what we see these days is not going in this direction but that, again, the number of officials is increasing, no, excuse me, not officials, but officials are translating into so-called. Directors who are political people again, we had the opportunity to watch it in 2011, 2012, when it was a transition from power, now we're looking at it again. It is not excluded that this will go again in one reverse direction when governments change again, it is not excluded because it is simple in Croatia. About such things in Croatia needs consensus and agreement because it simply can't go on, because that's what increases the public sector and not really tax discharge both citizens and businesses. When that moment happens, unfortunately it's completely uncertain. And as for these circuits of tax reform, I talked about it last week, why the situation is the way it is. Well, because there's been a lot of wandering because that tax reform is actually so-called. tax reform, it's not a reform at all, there are some corrections in the tax system, in the four circles that we're listening to here today, but which are on the principle of one, you give it to the other, and then it's all staying somewhere in some frames of modest tax absolute discharge, not relatively, which I especially stress because it needs to be fully accurate. So, you have situations to raise wages only to those who are well-being in one of the previous circles, so people who receive salaries of more than 18 000 kuna, there was also an increase in the salary of the prime minister, the President of the Parliament and those who have paid above that amount, and that really happened, yes, these are rare people in politics who have paid more than 18,000 nets but have them. So these are mostly leading state institutions. Then later you cut the profit tax, that's what the minister here said, that, to cut the profit tax to small companies, to those up to 3 million kunas of income, and now we're going to go to 7 million kunas of income, but whether it's a key problem, I have to do it again because it's a very important thing. The problem is that in this huge number of companies works somewhere around 200, slightly less than 200,000 people, and what they generally pay because some of them are owners, some of them are also owners of these companies, so they pay relatively small wages, somewhere on average I counted about 4000, 3900 kuna even, less than 4000 kuna and the impression is that this profit that we are now less taxing is actually a pump based on small paid salaries to employees. That's not good, so this income criterion isn't good. It would be a much better criterion for me to make it easier in the profit tax system to pay the net salary, for the amount of the net salary paid, and the state's additional interest, why? Because that net salary pays taxes, and especially contributions, means social funds are being charged out of it, and it's better to pay higher wages because these too, I'd say mutilated funds in both social and pensions are getting better, in health care, filling better and the standard of service will be better and there will be no hidden deficits that are torturing us now, and are not shown in this state budget, I mean health in particular. Then you have this situation to look back on, so I'm going to leave the word to my colleague, Lalovec. So, VAT caterers, well, of course, I'm also the chairman of the Tourism Committee, and all the time, I'm actually an advocate of this idea of reducing VAT in catering and tourism because in our government's time, this has had extraordinary effects both in income and in profit shown and in reducing the grey economy, if you want in this sector, smaller taxes, less grey economy. These are, not my analyses, analysis of the Chamber of Commerce showed this, there are entire studies, you can Google and find on the Internet and see what are the estimated effects. It is therefore not disputed that smaller VAT in these sectors increases competitiveness and improves the sector's parameters. And get back to this story about food and food. So, indeed, you admit, you have translated the term food into a concept of food because wine is food, but it has not eaten, and in this way you created a legal framework to get the wine out of the VAT reduction system from 25% to 13%. And when I was talking about yesterday's Martin, yes, St. Martin is the protector of winemakers and winemakers, and I am talking about them, not the caterers. This is the occasion I'm talking about a very important agricultural sector. In Dalmatia, you have nothing but olives and wine. Nothing else. And in many other parts of our region, wine and wineries are very important indigenous, so to speak, agricultural product and little agriculture that we have left and why we do not encourage them. And there was no need for you to do this exhibition, you just had to support those people with a VAT reduction. It's my thesis and it's my intensity. Comrade Lalovec, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u171999	Thank you. Dear fellow MP Boris Lalovec will continue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172000	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First one technical question. I mean, this goes into two readings, and I mean the budget we're bringing on Thursday, and I don't know what the next meaning of that second reading is, I mean honestly that we're going into another reading, I mean commendable that you go into two readings, it doesn't have anything to do with you, but all of the budget's revenues are defined under these tax laws, and we're going to discuss this when the budget is adopted, and actually by adopting the budget, these tax laws are actually being confirmed, and we can't do them later, and if we go to change, then it actually goes down and that budget. Well, I don't think in that technical part, I know that you should, you open up the debate and that it goes towards some procedures, but since these tax laws are solely about the budget, I think it would be more correct that you have brought them together in that part as packages of these certain measures, but now we can discuss probably, they should be before the budget is adopted for them to be discussed, because you're setting up a revenue side of the budget, not after the budget, etc., I mean the technical question, I say it has nothing to do with you, but the way the Assembly works in those parts, we know sometimes some things that should go in two readings, two readings like this, we're talking about the holidays being made some kind of consensus, you're bringing in an emergency procedure when it's going to be a holiday, and this is going to be in two readings, and we know that there's no technical possibilities regarding the budget itself, and these tax changes should actually be confirmed. The second thing about income tax, in the income tax system, as mentioned here, is projected to be the tax discharge of young people from 30 years of age to 100%, up to 25 years of age, and by 50% from 25 to 30 years of age and up to a maximum annual tax base of up to 300,000 kuna, and you estimate a certain impact of a reduction of up to 700 million kuna, with this measure being only active there in half of 2021. In fact, I have spoken here several times and when the debate was on the budget of this measure of government, the employment of young people, well, now we will see about certain, as regards emigration. There are some indicators here, so in 2018 out of 39 515 evicted from Croatia 9 100 were, 9 100 or 23% younger were from 20 to 30 years. Also, in 2017, of the total 47 352 evicted from Croatia, 11 100 means the same 23%. 23% of young people. So you're saying this measure will prevent young people from staying in Croatia, and the indicators that we're actually giving here are, in fact, the ones leaving Croatia in the period between 30 and 55 years. So they're almost 50% evicted. And now you say by this measure, we will encourage young people to stay, etc. And yes, during that period, perhaps which young people will remain, however, already from 30 years ago when it is actually becoming the most productive in the labour market, it brings some of the biggest and biggest contribution and, in fact, according to these emigration indicators, it is evident that you have not handled that measure because you have managed that measure and you see that most of the young emigrated, or working age between 30 and 55, the largest part, means that the part of the people leaving Croatia is not actually covered by these tax changes. So in this context you can't say that this measure will have that, that effect that you're actually going to have. Also another government measure to increase salaries or increase personal deductions from 3800 to 4000 kuna, which will increase salaries for people who pay today's part of the tax, will increase wages by around 52 kuna, also one of the measures, so that's this part of 30 years and further, they will have a 50 kuna salary increase. So we know that they are the most vulnerable group to go to the EU-wide labour market. So for those who move the most, who leave, the salary increase is 50 kuna. So we can't accept that these measures are just hitting that part that's gonna stop the eviction. Furthermore, in principle we can support this increase in the untaxable income for workers, meaning in particular the correcting of the injustice that the costs and accommodations and the diet of workers so far have been untaxable only for seasonal workers. So now all employees would be entitled to such treatment and that's acceptable. In the same way, we can support this non-taxation of costs for the regular care of children, preschool workers, or kindergarten costs, as well as the costs of additional supplementary and health insurance. These are certain measures concerning this part of income tax. Also, very briefly related to this part of the excise duty, i.e. the reimbursement of the part of the excise duty paid to diesel fuel used in the rail transport of goods and passengers in the range between the prescribed excise duty law and the minimum obligation, the height prescribed by eu regulations. The amount of return is 60 limes per litre, equalising rail transport with commercial transport of goods and passengers in road transport. This part of the release is, in fact, a kind of support or support for the railway sector, which stands ahead of which is more significant some kind of infrastructure investment in that part. We'll see if that, how much that will affect the increase in that part. And perhaps finally, finally related to all these tax changes, and I have said that several times, the only ministry that works in the government of Andrej Plenkovic during these four years was the Ministry of Finance. I am sorry that such proposals for discharging public administration, restructuring of the health sector, restructuring of the pension sector were not in others. And the Ministry of Finance is one final point in which it actually only finally subsides, but those sources where certain structural problems arise unfortunately at this time when we have certain economic growth and prosperity are not touched. They are touched in such a way that one part of the money has been transferred to the health system, which unfortunately generates losses at the unemployment rate of only 6%. Our pension system continues to generate a loss of 18 billion kuna each year and at never higher employment rates or unemployment, and it continues to generate a negative rate of 18.19 billion kuna. And unfortunately, all the things that are really all the time, we're only talking about taxes, only taxes, unfortunately I'd rather talk more about those that are the cause of structural problems in Croatia and that maybe some unpopular measures that are, probably some future government will have to bring to talk more about it than just running all the time Minister of Finance and speak here just change taxes and we'll solve all the problems in the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172001	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Independent Lists in the name of which the respected representative Bozo Petrov will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172002	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, dear ministers. The sum of summarum when the line is drawn after all this 4th round of tax reform can be said in one word not enough. I expected braver, stronger moves, I expected that the businessmen would be more freed from taxes, which from the administration, did not happen. I expected that the differences between a rich, richer layer of people and a poorer would be reduced. It didn't happen. I wish the changes that have been made because of this 4th round of tax reform were as strong as the PR has been for the last 3 years. We... As the predecessors have said, we've heard little about tax reform every once in a while. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Turns out we've reformed everything, turns out it's almost tax-free. Well wonders, next year five new billion kunas from citizens' pockets more than this one already last year from taxes. 20% of GDP is still taken from taxes as it was taken 3 years ago and 10 years ago. I'll just repeat what I asked and I saw you avoid the answer. Do you want people to stay in Croatia? If you want to, raise your child's cash fees, make them fair, make them all receive the same for each child, and not that the rich or those with the higher salary have more money because of 1, 2 or 3 children and those with the lowest possible salaries have nothing. Because that's the situation today. And we're talking about 800 to 900 thousand people in Croatia, they don't have the rights of people who have higher salaries in Croatia like you or these people here. If you want the economy stronger, if you want the economy to raise their income levels stronger, you will raise them so that you will allow two to three thousand kunas through these same fees so that people will stay in Croatia, so that they can plan their family, they will be able to plan life here. I noticed you were avoiding the answer to this, you were talking about some other topics during the answer. I don't know if it's because you can't, I don't know if it's because HDZ in the pre-election program had this, so he decided to shut up. They didn't have just this, they had a thousand euros for a child, and they had so many things in the program, and it turned out that they were going to hand-and-cap, and nothing happened in the end. But I'm going to remind you now of another promise, you promised to cut the VAT from 25 to 24% and you gave it up. But here's what I'm saying if you're short of money to give people two to three thousand kunas more a month, and I'm talking about people who on average have 3,500 kunas a month, and if you can't get along with them, so here's a month of living with that money, try being magicians, try to survive that month. You have now 900 million kunas you haven't reduced VAT, you're afraid you won't have enough money, so with this fee you're actually going to remove tax benefits and you're going to be made more money. But I don't think you need to draw it, just like you don't need to draw that people with 3,500, 5,000 or 6,000 kuna can't save, they're still going to spend everything they get, yet they're going to come back to you in one way or another. After all, you have five new billions of kunas through taxes next year and instead of increasing the earrings, the administrative apparatus, you share in different ways. So give and make it possible for those who do not have enough. And that's why I'm saying, and that's why we criticized the part where you said we raise the untaxable part from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna, so don't insult people. You speak only half of the employees in Croatia, they will not feel it either, and those who will feel it will literally feel 47 to 54 kuna per month, which is at the end of the year 600 kuna. And it's not even that end, it's going to end up at about 500 million kuna and you're going to pay back, to local self-government. That money will not fall from heaven, we will all pay it again, in other words the citizens will feel in one account less, in the other more, bit the wolf donkeys and spilling the hollow into empty space. For what? For 47 kuna a month. He's going to stay because of 47 kunas so you don't even compensate for local self-government? If you had a salary of 3,500, 4,000 kuna and someone gave you 47 kuna, what would you do with it? Would you have felt humiliated? And secondly, you're talking about taxes on smaller taxes on those under 30 years of age and that tax exemptions will be made for those under 25 years of age. Yes, I'm interested in how local self-government or regional self-government will be, since income tax is theirs at a time when you need to hire someone under 25 and they know in advance that it won't make them a profit. Have you thought about that? I will not talk about discrimination, I will not talk about that you are ultimately creating a situation that people who come into 30 years of life, when their cost of living is increased because they may already start their family, have children, and at that point they will increase the cost of eating that part of the reduced tax at 29 years will have a higher salary than in 30 years when their life costs are growing. I won't even talk about it. But think about this situation when someone is going consciously to hire people who are older because because of the younger ones, that's the situation you've made, it's not going to do them any good. Then what did you do? They further reduced the number of younger people employed in this country. We also keep unconsistent changes relating to income from renting real estate because you make differences. You make differences between those who rent for tourists and those who give a long-term term period to tenants. In addition, the oatmeal and what you went to limit the use of this institute by me is not well directed. Why? You're trying to reduce the possibility and number of those who abuse that institute in order. But by changing what you have suggested you will actually force young professionals to seek registration in some other tax jurisdictions in some other countries, not in Croatia. So you're going to make an extra drain of people. What I can say is that we support and that we will always support any tax discharge, any technical changes that make business easier and there are, but unfortunately in the tracks. Here I am thinking of raising the threshold for the application of the taxation procedure to charged fees from 3 million to 7.5 million, on the release of certain supplies of goods from VAT, we are also pleased that VAT hosts have fallen to 13% because current tourism and hospitality is our strongest economic activity. I think we should have at least 3, 4. What we cannot possibly support and what I do not understand is that it stands in this tax reform at all is the regulation of norms or the opening of additional space for the regulation of norms by sublaws. I heard the minister talking to me today about simplification during the replica. So what kind of simplification can we have when you make it possible, I'm not talking about the Minister of Finance now, any minister, that he prescribes past parliamentary deputies, past parliamentary debates, the same same legal acts, and edits them as he pleases? And usually these sublegal acts are more important than what we're discussing here. You're supposed to make a simpler machine, simpler because of entrepreneurs, simpler because of the citizens. You also spoke through replicas of multiple layers of tax making it a complicated system. We gave you a proposal, and at least introduce one system to food 13% overall. So is it normal for you to have meat, one banal example, meat if you, have a live rabbit, have one tax, if you deliver a dead rabbit, you have another tax. You have 80 and some different items for that, so of course your system is complicated. And you can make it simpler. Introduce 13% of all food other than those basic foods that are already at 5% and you will get a simpler system and will not feel at your register but will be easier for everyone in the country. The fact that you have not reduced VAT from 25 to 24, also shows Croatia's direction. Unfortunately, we are not in the direction of reducing the total VAT, although I agree, from 25% to 24%, people in Croatia will feel only great. They don't need it, they have enough anyway. You're supposed to do a much bigger procedure here, but since you haven't even done this minimal thing, use it, I'll tell you again, use that money because you have a chance for those who live today, who combine the end with the end, who live on the poverty line. And if I'm too pathetic for you, then I'm asking you to do 1.12, don't do that, because in the holidays and it'll be nice for you, 1.1, 1.2, whenever, pick a month and live with 3500, 4,000 kuna. I asked you at the beginning if you might want to make the system simpler for entrepreneurs. I didn't feel that part of you were working. You had a situation where you had reliefs or tax cuts for reinvested profits. I think it's a great institute. An employer who wants to invest additionally in his job, who wants to provide new technologies, a greater number of jobs, if he invests all his earnings, his profits back in business, will not be counted against the tax, i.e. It stimulates him to invest again. You erased that. You didn't come back. Is it also fair to tax the profits paid twice today? So if I'm the employer of something I've made, something I've earned, okay, I have to pay the state something, I'll pay the state, but you're making me pay twice the same profit. So please, you have your salary whatever it is, ask for double tax. Because if you're doing this to employers, why don't you go ahead? Also, I mentioned in the replica, explain to me why employers have to pay their taxes in advance. You have an advance, why? So that you may be liquid, and reduce your expenses. You've increased the cost by 30 billion. In the end, I would like Croatia to be a land of knowledge. A country of new technologies but unfortunately I don't see it in this, in four rounds of tax reform, not one move that will one day allow us to do so. What I see, it's still survived, there's a limit. A limit in which an employer can give money to an educational institution without being entrenched. That logic doesn't make sense to me, it's honest to me, it's messed up. An employer for you, for the state is a service, you should be yourself as I recall, and you promised in your pre-election programme, that you would increase education, science and research of 2% of GDP. You haven't exceeded 1% and it's been three years. And all right, you have some more important things. But why are you hitting an employer who wants to give you money in these educational institutions? Why did you strike the limits? The limit is 2%, 2% of his profits he can donate to educational institutions and above all, pay an additional tax. ... It's coming. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So you want income, you want to get Mr. Shucker, whatever? 2%. What's 1% of GDP? You stole so much from people on the basis of the 2016 pre-election programme for education. You're going to teach me what income is, which is profit, and you won't have a problem lying to people every four years during the election campaign how you're going to do something. And not only are you not doing it, but you're blocking others who want to do it to you, but the important thing is to point out, it's not profit, it's income. Here. I pointed out another one. You haven't even crossed 1% of GDP, you promised 2% and you've made a limit to entrepreneurs that they can invest at all. You'd approve of anything. If they want to give 100% of their incomes to an educational institution, no one happier than me. In this case, Croatia will finally be a country of knowledge and a country of new technologies. And if you're surprised at the temper of my debate, then you need to know that it's because unfortunately you don't talk about the people you got votes for, don't speak for the people who are the silent majority today. I'm not just talking about those who have very low wages, I'm talking about those entrepreneurs who are so beat up that they look like loads. How many of them have been beaten with these or those intrusions, changes in systems and everything, and no matter how neatly they pay. They pay up front and shut up. If I were you, I'd ask myself, "How long do you think they'll be silent?" And I think that time is coming to an end. And at a time when a new recession comes to you, and we will come and we are aware that it will come, then you should do much stronger and stronger procedures than what you put ahead of us, and first of all, if you didn't raise taxes and do nothing, if you'd just cut your costs, even if you'd frozen them at that level three years ago, you'd have 30 billion kuna at your disposal today. You could absolutely increase the salary for everyone in Croatia, not just tax-deprive those who have more than 10 thousand kunas. You could have invested in education, you could have done 100 miracles. Unfortunately, today's system remains equal to the trom when we look at administrative with more employees today than before in the public sector, although today half a million people in Croatia are less than 5 years ago, and there you have managed to do, unfortunately, a miracle. For this reason, we cannot support this tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172003	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative Ivan Shuker will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. Mr. Minister with his associates, very interested colleagues and colleagues for a parliamentary tax debate. I would also like these two debates that were on behalf of the clubs before the HDZ Club and the ones after which they will go to be compiled and agreed with discussions on the budget and on those amendments that have been tabled so that you can see what that budget would look like. And it's a shame that this tax debate wasn't before the budget because then probably the budget debate would be different. However, those who know more about taxes than all of us and who are dealing with it and who are interested, when they want to discuss taxes, then set certain principles that can be discussed because if you do not put one thing on a particular principle, then you cannot discuss it. Why? Because every participant in the debate will argue from their own corner and it simply won't look like anything. And that's why I said we should sort out some discussions and... So let me put this tax reform on behalf of the HDZ Club in four steps, or whatever you want to make me look at a few principles or criteria, and let's all try to evaluate it, if we're not going to publicly admit, and that, at least inside of us, let's start with economic efficiency. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is all that the government has done in the past 3 and this current tax reform, do you see it through economic efficiency? Did the citizens of the Republic of Croatia get more income available? They did. Did the businessmen receive more funds and have their lives simplified? It is. When you look at the structure, which affects GDP growth the most,... growth of 2.7, 2.8% points, 2% points affect your consumption. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And if you had not made your income available to the citizens, there would have been no spending. You just have to give someone something that they can spend because the logical thing is, if they're going to spend it on VAT through that consumption, but if the state has taken down the value added tax at 13%, then the state said, okay, on what we gave you more available income when you buy meat, milk and this and that you're not going to pay more 25% of VAT, but you're going to pay 13% of VAT. Unfortunately, the traders and the fact that in Croatia this market economy is unfortunately still not working, have not taken down the prices for these 13, 12% points, that is our second shoe problem, which is something, if you look at a little General Tax Law, some of the things that are given as a tax administration instrument, something that will affect. So from this economic aspect and economic efficiency, we can say that these tax changes have achieved results. Now, about whether it would be like this or as much, as much, so that criterion is satisfied. One very interesting criterion, I chose him specifically, and it's easy to apply. Look, when the Ministry of Finance saw that certain changes to the Tax Act on Income can no longer affect that those who have the lowest income get something because they simply came out of tax scissors, they resorted to something else, gave the employer some new possibility of paying off those 5000 in terms of rewards, so a warm meal, so if you bring these changes, with these changes, if you bring a credible bill and the cost of meals and accommodation costs, and in such a way they allowed the employer to linearly practically all his employees, because to go through a measure of income tax then those 800 000 would not feel it, if you see now that the simplicity of application of the Ministry of Finance went to the expense of economic efficiency and help Croatian citizens. Now we can discuss whether or not someone who has a salary of 30.000,00 kn net pays to the state through pension, through health, through income tax, since they spend more and more on value added tax through consumption, of those 30.000,00 in the state budget must end up 10,000.00 kn, but than one who has a lower salary, unfortunately that amount is far less. Now look at your colleagues and colleagues, what's being financed from these funds we all use equally, we all use the same, and the other thing, who creates and who affects the economic and economic development of the Republic of Croatia, whether he who creates, who creates or does. So that's just the principles that we have to stick to with tax policy because if we're not going to do that, we're going to come to the sport, everything that's quality is good, they're going to pick up those who pay for quality, and unfortunately we're staying here, we can't let that happen to us in the economy, we just can't afford it, we just can't afford it. The following principle is the principle of flexibility, whether this system is flexible that at certain times if certain disturbances occur, only one example, floating excise duty, so the Government has a legal option at a time when energy prices go up to change excise duties practically at a government meeting or regulation regulates it, and also by regulation it can regulate some other things regarding some other laws. Now, the most sensitive, fickle question, and that is the political acceptability of tax changes. Look, after these ranges of ours is definitely that we're politically unable to agree. Why? Because we use the tax debate for political bickering. But what the minister said, and what the government's representative is saying, all these tax changes are a matter of the parliamentary majority's political decisions. Now, whether someone will be so realistic, so some things that are good words are politically acceptable to me or just because it finds a positive echo in someone in Croatian society deny it just so that they don't say it's good, now it's a matter of criteria by which we measure something and what's the most important justice of the tax system, always the one who pays the tax is a lot to him, and always the one who charges him little. However, whoever proposes the laws must apply this principle of justice and must go to the fact that the state does not grow and if it spends these funds does not bulge, but to be rational for the reason that he who creates and earns would not have to pay much of that state. So much for the criteria that we might need to discuss when we discuss taxes, and now let me touch a few legal changes, so you can easily put them into one of these criteria that I mentioned. Here it is, a value added tax, the first political decision, this parliamentary one, actually the Prime Minister and HDZ, and the parliamentary majority that because of the situation created in the Republic of Croatia, the need to pay the wages and some other things, and because of the assessment of the revenues in the budget next year, we cannot go to a reduction in the overall value added tax rate from 25 to 24% for the simple reason that it is a professional political assessment that this rate is better to remain 25% than to be in debt to a billion and 800 million kuna next year, it is simply a fact and it is a political decision. However, what's very important about value added tax, and now we're going back to some debates a few months ago, it's 13% of the value added tax in the catering sector, remember the debate a few months ago in this assembly when they were, I just can't believe that colleagues from the tourist parts and other parts of the Republic won't support this proposal just because of this provision, so if even some other provisions don't agree with that measure, so the logical thing is that 6-7 months ago there were so many calls here, 13%, we're going to shut it down, because of our fellow citizens in 14 when it's voted on this law that, only because of this, the VAT there is going to be such a measure, now the government is going to be able to do so with the 25% of the economy, and now we're going to make sure that we're going to make sure that we're going to be able to do well with the 25 percent of the economy, and the economy, and the economy, so now that we's going to be able to go to do well with 24%. It's also good, and this points back to something else, that the control of charges and generally tax movements has led to us now raising the limit to up to 7.5 million kuna of total income, and not to get because it's the difference of heaven and country, because profit is an accounting category, total income is an accounting category, this, I mean profit for taxation, not getting this, so up to 7.5 million kuna will be charged value added tax and according to the realised value. And as the minister said, it is practically 93% of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia that will make their lives easier. He won't have to pay the bill per month, let him charge the bill, then it'll have to be paid. Now let's go easy on income tax. Now look, we're full of mouths when we talk about demographics, about helping young people. The government has made a political decision to go with this measure. And that is the right of those who have the majority and who govern the state. He considers it to be a good measure based on all his knowledge. And the government suggested it was a political stand behind it. And therefore, I have no objection to the opposition colleagues criticising it, but make a second suggestion. Because why? Of the 2 million and 700 taxpayers of income tax at this time is a million and 700, after these changes, a million and 700 will be out of tax scissors, millions and 700. So this is about everyone who's taxpayers on income. Of the pensioners through those constantly employed, through the occasional employees and those who have some other type of income, and this clearly indicates that as far as income tax intervention is concerned, it is very difficult to do something. And that's why this measure of youth, no matter what it is or how it should be supported. Because colleagues and colleagues, let's get down to everyday life. When you need someone to fix your electricity, fix your water, fix your car, what is missing in Croatia today? It's missing a master and these are young people who start working in the world and in the labour market at 19, at 19, 20, and they're a very important segment if we're talking about the economy. Let's not just look here young people won't leave, let's look at this population that's very important if we're talking about going towards economic development. Because what is it? Namely one of Croatia's biggest problems at the moment if someone wants to come to invest in Croatia is unfortunately a lack of labour, especially professional labour. So look what's happening to us in tourism. Now are we interested in this tax measure to encourage our children to go to such schools and enter the world at the age of 20 and that they don't pay income tax for the first 5 years and also for the next 5 years to pay 50% of the income tax. And what the minister was saying technically is whether it's most acceptable for it to be an annual tax application again is one additional administration or since today we're talking about digital society, then the change of a few people who have a tax bill like this isn't even expensive anymore, so maybe you should give the possibility to payers to correct it once or twice a year, and then in such a way you might be administratively relieved of the tax administration but it's just one of the thoughts. We also have a defined scholarship here. I'm glad there's a scholarship here. Because you can get a scholarship in cash, someone can provide you with a favor, and now it's just important whether you have some kind of obligation for that scholarship. It's a key thing. And the Ministers didn't answer that question. Because if you have some kind of obligation for a scholarship that has some sort of material form of compensation, then the question is, what is the treatment of that obligation, is it income in the future or k if it is treated? Whether it's taxed or not is taxed. It's a lack of this provision regarding scholarships. Because you have a provision that if you have a scholarship from someone that you owe to them to spend three or four years at work it's the most normal thing. You get paid for it, you pay for it in retirement and health. If you're under the age of 25, you won't pay income tax on that salary because this law frees it. If you are 25 to 30 years old, you will pay only 50% of the income tax on that salary. But what if this scholarship was arranged in a different way? What I particularly like about us at the HDZ Club is these changes in the general tax law that regulate three things that we all talk about very much... But we daren't say it publicly and stop maybe we didn't even dare because we couldn't put it into the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's this covert insufferable work, all sorts of forms. Even though you look at the profit tax is 12% and the craftsman pays on that income when he ends up paying him a 24%+prisage rate, so it's a little illogical that someone doesn't go here. Second, frequent changes in the organisational form of business. E remember 6, 5.6 years ago, some have simplified the establishment of companies and these j.d.s have made the biggest mess and not the competitiveness of the market in the Republic of Croatia. And there was still a provision of value added tax not until next year when they found out that you... certain criteria to enter the VAT system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you had the case open j.d.o., do everything you do, and then the end of the year comes, you shut it down, you entered the system, because next year you would have to enter the VAT system, you have a different organisational form next year, and practically at the same means, and in the same spaces continue to engage in the activity. By amending the General Tax Act, this will be eliminated with those changes in value added tax if you remember in the past changes when we have said about j.d.o. immediately the first month after it is established that the conditions for entering the VAT system have been met it becomes a practical obligation to pay value added tax and business through a series of related companies are also not all interlinked companies which are defined by law but a series of transactions and a series of business developments that occur indicate that these are closely related companies. But let's just say that if you strictly adhere to the law of connected societies, then that's not the way they are. However, what the tax administration can see through its instruments of control, and it is very important to prevent this from happening, in this way we prevent a large tax ejaculation. This second one is more or less all technical changes, it's good that you went to change in the Excise Taxation Act, that you went to change about the exemption from excise duties practically in the earth's transport both burdens and passengers. Both colleagues and colleagues are a very sensitive story. Each of us pays for it every day. It doesn't matter what form he pays it in. However, the budget is even more sensitive because the budget practically gives us the quality of life daily, from health care, education, communals, etc. and it's very difficult to find balance, and we are in a meeting with adoption or not adopting certain legal proposals doing that balance. That is why I, and on behalf of the HDZ Club, tried to give a few principles that we should stick to when we discuss taxes. At the end of the day, everyone can budget online, they can go to the Institute of Public Finance, they have their own criteria about the efficiency of the tax system, and when we talk about the tax, then we can only discuss it that way. Unfortunately, however, we have before us presidential elections, ahead of us is the election year, and we certainly will not discuss taxes in this way. I could say, after all, you can see what I was saying when VAT rose from 23% to 25%, when the health contribution came down from 15 to 13, so he was going back, etc., but you should also have understanding for those who suggest it, to suggest because the water came to their throats, not because they don't want it or don't want it, unfortunately taxes and you're proposing to save the situation. A colleague, Maric, has one, so to speak, a comfortable situation so that he can rationally propose tax changes and what is very important in these tax changes is seen consistency from the first day, and it has been clear that the release of a large part of income towards Croatian citizens and entrepreneurs and Minister Maric and Minister of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia is kept until the end. Therefore, the HDZ Club will be pleased to support these amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172005	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the MPs' club, the next debate on behalf of the HNS Club will be divided into two parts of counterparts Curaj and counterpart Batinic. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172006	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear Ministers with fellow workers, respected colleagues and colleagues, I will take the first part of this first part of the joint debate just to look back on something that has been said here, only understanding the functioning of public finances or tax policy and in general to some extent the economy. In fact, here we heard first of all the story of tax revenues growing and actually giving no one anything but taking more and more. Now I believe that as well as here, and so are the citizens who look at us, there are not so many that are understood in public finances and generally in movement. I was free to draw a graph that might be the most spectacular of all. So for those of you who talk about actually taking more taxes, and not reducing, this is one graph that tells you about tax revenues and tax rates. What's going on now? When you have zero, zero is zero, tax rates rise, income rise. And now we're out here somewhere, and we're going to cut tax rates, and look what's going on, income increases. And it's ideal in every economy and every country to come to this spot right here, this point and find it, but no one can tell it exactly where it is. No one can know that. What can be done right now is to gradually reduce tax burdens from year to year, so we were there, so here we are, and here we are looking at how this affects the economy and going towards that goal to have the best balanced tax revenues compared to tax rates. And that's why tax revenues are increasing, this graph says, if we had this much tax burden, so we cut it down, look at the revenues have increased. And that's why next year we can expect it. But go to the beginning and say we're going to halve it all in half could lead to here, and here by reducing tax revenues, means by cutting money for our public servants, police, military, healthcare professionals, professors, etc., etc. which is financed by those tax revenues. I think it should be extremely clear to everyone, but most often it is not. We're talking about some kind of unfair tax policy, how the rich have a lot, they have nothing, and that reminds me of one of those old-timed ways, they're all equal, we look across from those who have more, etc., etc. I think we said no to those times a long time ago and we shouldn't go back to that kind of story. We need to know what we want. What exactly is our GDP made of? When we talk about why an increase in income and we know that the most complex example of GDP is that of what is done economically in one country, you go 55 to 60% of us are personal consumption. So then 20% of the investment or investment spending goes to it, 20% of the government's spending, and then we all get to one 1-2% of the net amount, so the difference between imports and exports. That's our GDP. And if we release a large part of the money for personal consumption, of course it grows, of course our tax revenues are growing. So it's so much what the most plastic can simply explain. Anyone who wants can understand that. But there are those who do political.../incomprehensible/... and I understand that, for political reasons they have and the need to always say let's go yet. Let's give it all away, let's go to these and those. Of course, when they come into a position, then that story changes, because you have to be responsible, you can't bring yourself into a state's collapse situation. Of course, honor for exceptions can always be something different, better and it is the meaning that through such discussions, especially in the first reading, certain suggestions are made how to correct something, how to do something better, more efficient, more economically, all for the purpose of a better standard of our citizens and, of course, improved economic activity again. Because what we have seen by reducing VAT on these food products primarily eggs, fresh meat, etc., vegetables, that that trickl down effect that should be expected when you relieve the employer that he passed it on to his employee did not happen or to the end-user. Apparently, there's some place left. I want to believe again that we may have prevented some increase, some kind of inflation, if we're all aware that today and what was 15 years ago is not the same. 15 years ago you had a certain purchasing power for that minimumer of 2,000 or 1,800, 2,000 kuna you had one purchasing power, today you have absolutely another power for that money. So at the end of the line when you look at the ATM you leave 15, 20 years ago you could get there for 50 kunas when you raise money, today I think there's not one... that gives 50 kunas is obviously that 50 kuna has lost that value. And that's why maybe on that side when we've prevented and reduced and increased or maintained the same level of purchasing power, or I believe that we've even increased it because it was one of the proposals. So, as far as constructive proposals are concerned, I would like to consider whether sublaws or regulations or regulations to introduce that Christmases and planned food and accommodation costs remain untaxable receipts may also apply to persons who are trained in the employer, to include them if they are already working, share their fate to be included. Also to consider the rules on the use of a private vehicle for official purposes, we have those 2 kunas for the past 20 years with the price of fuel and other services related to the maintenance of the vehicle, so the hour of work of the car mechanics, etc., I think it is something that is extremely special for our businessmen, craftsmen who use their private vehicles for their official purposes that this is certainly something that would be appropriate to bring into line with current prices. Furthermore, when we talked about income tax and this measure for young people, I think a major change was made, we moved out of the effects of employers' competitiveness and went into the demographic story. What does that mean? If the original proposal had remained, first the employers of younger employees would have been competitive in the labour market and had more reasons to hire them, but they could also be negotiated by net wages, and this whole measure would lead to a level to keep them more money, not to get our young people that difference. And by this measure, we are actually talking about young people that by staying here, by building a working relationship here on top of their salary they will have, it can easily be calculated, another once-a-year tax return that will mark one amount as a kind of savings or all that can mean then and thus make that employer, generally all employers in Croatia more competitive as regards personal income and on the other hand prevent leaving when taken into account. And on the other hand, the employer does everything as he has done so far and on his part there is no difference in wages, coefficients and in everything that could cause it. So, that I think is good. What you would like to consider as another proposal from the first reading is to see how this can also apply to those who have a self-employed income, so specifically craftsmen under the age of 30, owners of craftsmen. In doing so immediately, I would rule out the turn-offs if they paid 1,200 a month and some kuna obligations to the state of tax, contributions, etc., so if they were to relocate it would be really pointless, but those in the VAT system there can think in what way that part of the avoidance story that the minister was saying would happen again. Do we have the general tax law and the intensity to put in order a little bit of that flat-rate twist, but I'm primarily against generalizing them, but if someone really did work with an employer and opened up a cereal trade and just work again with that employer, maybe we could put the order in there. But it's big, I'd really like it to be like that, if it's not going into some broad application, because we can't deny someone their right to choose a smaller pension, to have a less chance of a future at the expense of today. It's his right and the fundamental right of every man and we have to give it to him. And here on page 3 the consequences of the law being passed are not clear to me only if you can escort me, so under point C says the adjustment of the area, the use of tax benefits contrary to the purpose of the law when the taxpayer uses the tax method to use organisational forms that are taxed at lower regulatory rates, so the change is constantly being shifted, which were not intended for a particular group of taxpayers and then said, it would reduce the avoidance of the use of tax benefits. We reduce the avoidance of use. A little bit of that definition means we're actually reducing the ones that didn't use it. We actually need to reduce those who have used these measures so they have avoided, not to reduce purely nomotechnically, not to reduce those who have used but rather to reduce those who have used and abused them, just a little bit of a nomotechnical check it out. Here, I think very briefly, counterpart Batinić will continue on all other measures of these tax laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172007	Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172008	Thank you, Vice President. Associates of our minister, assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. So, according to my colleague Curaj's presentation, I'm just going to briefly look back on income tax, this part of the increase in the untaxable work we certainly support that element that is crucial, that is, there are compensatory measures. This part of tax relief for young people up to 25 and 30 years of age, I am pleased that the minister has respected our proposal to resolve it through the annual tax application precisely for reasons because, in the debate and in communication with citizens, it was going to be different how it was originally imagined to cause some revolt, dissent and certainly one positive measure. We're just hoping at the HNS club that they'll get some results from those who are expected of them, they wouldn't be well accepted. However, I will repeat what I am on the board and in the talks in general speaking about tax policy, I think it is high time to go into a more quality tax reform in such a way that, especially as regards income tax and local and regional self-government financing, it finally draws a line once and knows exactly what means can be financially available at local and regional level. Why am I saying that? Income tax in full, the total amount collected goes to local and regional self-government and this certainly reduction of tax revenues, somewhere is estimated at around 700 million kuna, will reflect on better or less quality business of certain local self-government and county. Of course, they project their own law-based multiannual, three-year programme and budget and, of course, it will now be a very difficult business. We have entered a number of European projects that we will have to reach out to and in some ways for the debt and the return of credit funds has been projected. They will not be available to all, the resources available, the support from the state budget, and I certainly say, this law has, I hope that it will get positive effects, but it can also initiate a series of problems in the functioning and financing of certain local environments and it is not good that one such tax that these countries have, I will quote the words of one colleague when they usually reach out to them when they want to relieve their citizens because there are simply no other tax laws that can and in which way they can increase the standard of citizens or relieve them by tax. Of course that doesn't mean, we are for tax discharge, we will always be, but it also has its reasonable limits while which levels as fellow Curaj tried to do so and graphically show to which level we can go. The sustainability of the tax discharge system must not be omitted. But I would like to say something, namely, motivated by a fellow citizen as far as this law is concerned, it's special, just for a second, with a special tax on motor vehicles. These changes are, we certainly support, but I would like to take advantage of the opportunity, so maybe it's something that didn't cause attention or attention, it was more when it was brought back in 2013, says specific taxes are determined on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions expressed in grams per kilometre, which means one parameter, motor vehicle sales prices, that's another, engine power in kilowatts, engine volume in cubic centimeters and exhaust emission levels. Now, of course after that there was no customs duty, before there were customs duties on imports, etc., but this is one looking belongings, okay, the state collects that tax and that is tax revenue unintentional. If we're going to define the belongings of individual elements, then there's either I have to say separate or simply simplify it. Namely, why am I saying that? Besides this, it's one time when a vehicle is imported new or bought, we pay it, one time, if you have a vehicle for a year, 10, 20 or how many years. However, we have another tax, quite similar which is not a subject but I connect, a tax on road motor vehicles that is exclusively county income. It is annual, paid for vehicles up to 10 years of age according to engine strength and age and then has tables up to 2 years old, 2 to 5, 5 to 10 years old and over 10 years of age is not paid. It's the same tax income. Now, when I was talking about what I was doing with a light drive, why I wanted to talk about it, a fellow citizen, he went, of course, vehicle registration, etc. And he asks me, says special environmental compensation, income belongings, environmental protection fund. 35 kn on average. So he asks me a question then, look, but I paid a special tax one time, carbon dioxide emissions, I pay that much every year. Is that a double? Furthermore, I pay road charges when registering or depending on whether the county roads, specifically the city of Zagreb or ZUCs, 180 kuna and 60 limes, are listed to me which was a dedicated income plus those excise revenues from the Croatian roads, from the price of fuel etc. that stand out for the ZUCs based on miles of road. And now this tax on special motor vehicles might not be so controversial, but its components mean we pay one-time CO2 emissions, and every year again, I think I'm asking us all a question. Furthermore, the selling prices of a motor vehicle, so what's different than customs that was, we renamed it into something else and now I'm asking if other EU members have it among themselves, protect their production, right, the Republic of Croatia has car production and we need to protect ourselves. Furthermore, let's get engine volume and now exhaust emissions levels, so how many times does it mean that carbon dioxide emissions are expressed in grams and exhaust emissions levels? My suggestion, namely what's the point of the debate? When I said that the whole tax system should be redefined, simplify it, but I would also like it to be very well known, especially the citizens question if we are paying something which is intended because I know that tax revenues are so difficult to distinguish, at the local level it is much simpler, but at the state level it may not be that simple, but also the belonging of income because believe me, it is not a problem for citizens to pay, but they need to know why they pay something and of course they do not agree if they feel that some things pay several times through various taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172009	Thank you, too. Before continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs we welcome the students of the elementary school of Grigora Knights from St. John the Frog and their teachers and teachers. Well, hello, and welcome! ... We continue to debate on behalf of the clubs, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats of counterpart Davor Vlaović, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172010	Thank you very much, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Vice-President of HS, the esteemed representatives of the Ministry of Finance, here are a few sentences on this package of tax laws on behalf of the HSS and Democrats Club. When it comes to these tax laws, the applicants represent this as the fourth round of tax reform that should be, having economic efficiency, giving citizens greater, higher income, higher income, economic lower tax pressure, and on the other hand, the stability of public finances. According to the budget that we have discussed and which is likely to be adopted tomorrow without any accepted amendment from the opposition, it is evident that we have planned these budget expenditures at 147 billion and that this is a growth of budgetary expenditure at higher rates than it is increasing GDP or what it says about the growth of tax revenues and that the tax pressure remains high, that 9 billion total discharges through these four rounds of tax reform, but Eurostat continues to say that we are among the 4 members of the EU and with the greatest tax pressure and what is the fact, and that in the last 4 years. that tax pressure, or income, increased by 1.3%. It is crucial that when you talk to the representatives of the economy why they do not invest, why they do not go to the opening of new jobs, what is the tax system in the Republic of Croatia, they say that it is too much through the legal framework of the law in the Republic of Croatia, that they change too often, and when it comes to the tax system that it is complicated and it is often changing, and that it is also teaching on this and the great problem of the judiciary, corruption and that the judicial processes last 10-15 years, that you have different trials in the same case in Dalmatia, in Osijek or Zagreb, and that through that part it is clearly evident why there is no more private or investment in the economy in new jobs in the Republic and the fact that these tax changes in the law for the fourth time further create that tax pressure on the economy through changes in the same law and through the need to adapt to the same and thus create this kind of anxiety because once again something changes and the business and accounting with the same, and accounting with the same, and the same, and more serious reforming of the public reforming state should not be done. In fact, here is an example of crisis years from 2008 to 2013, in the economy in the Republic of Croatia, more than 100,000 jobs have been put out, and in parallel to that in the public administration, more than 11,000 new employees have been employed in the state administration, so here we have an example that somewhere within the framework of almost 400,000 public administration employees, it is more than 10% of the total population, when compared to Germany, which we often like to compare with, in public finances, in public administration, we are still employed at around 5-5.5% of the total population and when we want a more efficient state, a more efficient service to citizens, then we often mention digitalisation and e-service, so we are still somewhere at 30-35% of the total number of services that citizens can get through e-service, while it is in the same country 85%, and on the other hand, the introduction of a large number of public expenditure in the public sector could not be reduced by 50. And this government has promised at the beginning of its mandate to reduce the administration and public administration, but it happened exactly the opposite is increased the number of ministries from 18, 19 to 20, 5 central state offices, here finally the Croatian Fire Department, and I am glad they got that status because firefighters deserve it, but it is a cost to be financed. And that's why the tax pressure is still very high. What interests me and us in HSS was particularly the change of these tax laws that is the Value Added Tax Act because in that previous discussion when a number of products are reduced VAT I spoke and we from HSS have asked that value added tax on food products especially on those agricultural food products that are produced in Croatia be reduced VAT bar to the level that is in the environment in neighbouring countries. It has been reduced from 25% to 13% to part of the products, but in the environment it is 7, 8, 10% and what is the fact that a large part of our citizens because of their economic power, purchasing power must go to protect their existence from buying across borders in BiH, Serbia and other countries in the environment because these products are much cheaper there. And I failed to get the data before this debate, and I would like to hear from the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, they certainly have how many millions of kunas in this retail traffic have come out of Croatia, which our citizens have entered through food products in Croatia because they simply cannot buy these products in Croatia. And so here I repeat that one more time, although the Minister of Finance promised at my debate, on my criticism, and I broke the law that did not reduce VAT and on the dried products he as Slavonac should have understood it, if you reduced VAT to raw material to fresh meat as an entry cost, then you should have reduced VAT and to the final product, which is cool, ham, bacon and other dry meat products. This has not been done, has not been done, and the number of citizens of BiH and Serbia crossing shopping every day is growing from Slavonia. Unfortunately, so would our HSS proposal, too, would be to make this step further, to reduce VAT on agricultural and food products to 5% to be competitive in order to raise this level of production. Because the fact that we've dropped production and milk and pork and beef and imports are growing. If our goal is to grow VAT, and it has grown, but it has to be said that it has grown on import products and has been profited by importers, traders and these same traders have not reduced the prices of our citizens to those products that are, where VAT has been reduced from 25% to 13%. And that's a fact. It means whether we are doing it for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to change tax laws or for importers and wholesalers. You know the answer from what I said and said. When it comes to profit tax, all those reliefs for the reinvested part have been abolished to be a tax relief in the calculation of profit tax. Again, here we are from HSS and I are asking to consider the return model of any reinvested kuna in deprived areas, and there is certainly Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem and Lika and some other areas where it is hard to live, where it is emigrated that for every entrepreneur who invests in a new job in these areas it is a tax relief. I don't think it would be too much of a burden on the state budget, on the revenues of the state budget, and it would help to create new jobs in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, not to have a reverse situation. For example, in Djura Djakovic's group, two companies are shut down, that more than 500 work contracts have been cancelled, and it is unfortunate that there are salaries of these workers in the Mediterranean industry from 3,500 to 4,400 kuna with all overtime. If we want to preserve life there, not only in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but also in other deprived areas, then we need to come up with tax models to stimulate entrepreneurs to invest in such areas and to create jobs and that people have wages to live on. This way it's not. We also welcome this attempt to give young people the opportunity to work and not to pay employers tax on their salaries for up to 30 years, and I hope that this measure will contribute to the fact that young people are not moving out, but the fact is that they are moving out and the fact is that this measure itself will be difficult if there are no other measures to end emigration, and it is already mentioned there that it is certain that I will not use a harsh word, but that not all of them are in the same position and that this measure should be further completed. So if it is already being considered, and it should be done further, our proposal from the HSS is that it is then raised, that threshold up to 35 years, because it is exactly the largest number of young people who move out of Croatia at that age, and certainly then design models after they end up under the current proposal 30 or tomorrow if you accept 35 years, which when he turns 35, which is because he will suffer dramatically, whether he will be motivated to remain there or if that measure is then abolished no longer treats him in such a way, to figure out a model of how to stimulate the employer not to cut his salary, but to stay at least roughly in that salary he had without a paid tax on his personal income. Because otherwise, after taking advantage of this measure, very easily in the meantime, the family will have children, we hope, and there will be increased costs, and they will have fewer incomes. I don't think that's good and that you have to find a model how. And here we are talking about young people and their working relationship and work contracts and still being like the state with the highest rate where young people are working on a work contract for a certain time. The highest percentage remains in Croatia. I suggest you come up with models to stimulate or destimulate employers to negotiate with young people for a certain time because this rate is still too high and as long as the contract on work is for a certain time young people can't plan for a family or for the purchase of real estate, neither people can plan for a family, or for the purchase of real estate or cars, and in vain all other measures and then, most often, they leave Croatia for bread, unfortunately in Germany, Ireland or some other countries. And when it comes to excise duties, it is good that part of the excise duty is returned to farmers who are doing goods and services both in road transport and in railways, but it is certain to consider how this excise duty that is fuelled by over 60% of the state's income can be returned to local self-government units targeted and dedicated to building infrastructure, road infrastructure because it is in poor condition of local and unclassified roads. And the county road administrations along with local self-government units can't invest it themselves. And here's what's happened today. It's going to go up through excise fees into the state budget. We propose and demand that part of that excise duty revenue be returned to the units of local self-government. You have now provided compensation measures of 500 million kuna for changes in income tax. I don't think this will always be possible and that it should also be thought that part or excise duty on fuel or some economists and tax experts propose and part of the VAT return to local self-government and regional self-government units in order to have enough financial income to be able to do all their duties. More and more commitments are coming down to local self-government units and revenues are still central government revenues. Because of the 100 kuna taxes charged, 90 goes to the central state, 5% goes to Zagreb and all 5% goes to local and regional self-government units, and I think that this model must be changed to just those countries that we like to compare to where the successful state is, where the local self-government is successful, and that is that, in addition to decentralisation of jobs, we also have to make fiscal decentralisation, return revenue to our units of local and regional self-government. We have a problem that our agricultural production is getting smaller every day, that our VAT revenues are increasing, unfortunately these are import revenues, VAT on imported goods. And unless we change land policy, unless we change the policy of taxes on agricultural and food products, unless we change the model of taxation of family holdings, unless we turn to small craftsmen and entrepreneurs who remain at that end, live and work, if we continue to work towards them at this pace, I fear that every day they will be less and that these effects that we now have and these are increased incomes from the tax and total income of the central state will not continue for long. Because there is already an announcement by certain European members announcing the danger of a re-crisis. So you hear that when you talk to the businessmen who are our exporters to already cut orders especially you can hear it from the representatives of the wood-processing industry. And then it's illogical that in the draft budget, we're throwing the wood industry out of those 160 million kuna aid measures that we had to support the wood industry projects last year, it's only a million kuna in 2020. If that's the direction we're going to help the economy then we don't need any taxes or tax reform, then we're all going to Germany. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172011	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. Next up is a colleague of Anka Mrak-Taritash on behalf of the GLAS club. Here are my colleagues, Anka Dark-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172012	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues from the Ministry of Finance, respected once again, Mr. Hajdas Doncic, the esteemed secretary, Mr. Bukarica, with associate, respected colleague Alexic of the SNAG party, respected Mrs. Turina Đuric, ma'am. Pusic, Mr. Beus Richemberg, dear colleague Vlaović and Lenart. Here's an interesting debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172013	I'm sorry, so dear everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172014	Thank you. So let's look at the assembly room, right wing, center, no, so the conclusion would be something going on in the ruling coalition and we don't know what kind of drama it is. When it comes to HDZ, we know we have a little problem with these clubs, or groups on what's up and on the vibero. And we have in GLAS my group on a vibero that's called the GLAS club, so I was thinking whether to do the debate on behalf of the club on that group or do it at the club because actually all the debate that's going to be like that is... that we can meet on one coffee and say what we have to say, but since we have colleagues here from HSS and colleagues from the SNAGA and colleagues from the SDP, no matter what you're behind my back, we've decided to hold a debate on these nine laws, called the 4th round of tax reform, to be done in the assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In GLASU, we absolutely appreciate the efforts of the finance ministers and the entire ministry in their desire to do tax reforms, and then we need to see, on a good day, Mr. Grcic, I welcome everyone's names so that I don't forget you, so we appreciate the efforts of the Ministry of Finance to really try to make certain tax reforms for the reason that our citizens will feel it. But we always think we should believe the way someone else thinks about us. The way someone else thinks about us says that we are among the four worst EU members with the greatest pressure when it comes to tax laws. And that's a fact for us. Reform is a word everyone likes to use, reform everyone announces but it is very difficult to implement and we all somehow run away from this reform. There was one reform that was really a reform, which we all forgot, and that was fiscalization. Let's remember that reform that was announced, which was carried out, everyone was against it. Remember all those citizens who said it was impossible, that it would destroy a part of the economy. You got it from the Ministry of Finance because some of you were sitting there, a little by the kidneys, you had to explain a little what it was about, but it worked. And after a few years, no one even remembers. It was a reform for which reason, because in the Ministry of Finance, if they really want to see what the real situation in our country is, which are the days when consumption is increased, where more is bought, if there's some disproportionateness, if one day it shows more, and another time less, you can see everything and you can control everything. This set of laws, this set of nine laws, you've decided to go through two readings. Otherwise, I have to say that colleagues from the Ministry of Finance and together with the minister who apparently had to leave are one of the few who spend most of their time with us in this assembly no matter how many there are, which seems to me to be talking about something in this country being wrong. We should ask this country what kind of Croatia we want, not 2030, 2030 is tomorrow, I'm just going to make a comparison, somewhere over the last century, I've been a young engineer, I've been doing spatial planning, and we've been doing spatial plans where our code year was 2000, and we've been playing a lot of games since we were very far away. Back in 2000, the code-year was 2020, which is tomorrow. Now the code year we need to look at is no longer 2030 but 2050, so we should all ask ourselves together the question of what kind of Croatia will be in 2050. So what are we going to do, what are we going to develop the economy on, is it going to be a state where we have only public administration and we have big malls? Where there's between there and some answers to it we should always get out of a set of tax laws because there are some things that are being considered, some things that we have an idea to change, we unfortunately don't see. Unfortunately, we see something called a 4th set of tax reform, and we all know together that's not exactly what it is. Of these nine laws, there are indeed some that have been amended and complemented in a way because you are harmonising, harmonising or with some directives, or you have seen that there are some misunderstandings or illogicalities in the application of these laws, especially this law, which is about special taxes on motor vehicles, and there have obviously been some abuses and everything else, so there has been a certain change. On the board, I asked one question, so I'm going to open the topic here too, so climate change is a fact. That they're not the only fact Mr Trump thinks that, but what Mr Trump thinks we can always see on Twitter and have a good time. EU countries, through their laws, through their adoption of a state budget which, of course, we all adopt at about the same time, have committed much to combating climate change. The most convenient thing for us to do is to watch Germany do what it does, but let's be realistic and that comparison with Germany is a little more difficult. For example, we saw that in the following year Italy will have a special education related to climate change, and we pretend that we are not involved, as we are small, there are only 4 million of us, so these 4 million inhabitants are, we can't even make any better, I just wanted to say hello to Mr. Kovac, but he already has to go to the meeting. I'm names, a little more parliamentary representatives gathered... Oh, great, great, thank you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here, we have one of the ruling ones. Thank you. And wait, wait, I have to get back on the subject, I can't do this, they're gonna warn me here, I'm gonna get a warning, so it's not gonna be good. Thank you. [[No, I won't, just keep going. /]] Excuse me. So, when I went back to that thought that was actually there, I was talking about the idea of climate change and that this law really should see what we're doing and how we're doing. I asked a story that's obvious. For example, Germany banned absolutely all plastic bags. I am absolutely sure that only in Zagreb on the payroll is the distribution of 10 thousand nylon bags for the weekend. A lot of people, when they started doing this kind of entrepreneurship, went home in a garage in a decent business space to produce it. Let's say Croatia forbids plastic bags, which would be kind of okay, the question is what would these people do? In other words, what am I saying? The set of tax laws should show this effort in which we encourage people to produce something else. Or those products that get a special stamp that are environmentally acceptable, that in terms of tax relief it is recognised. So countries are better off against climate change, and so countries show their attitude towards space, in fact, to the environment in which we live. We also have a big one, so the debate was about the Income Tax Act, there was a big debate about this dispensation of young people. Once upon a time, I've heard that we have a great demographic policy. It would be great if we knew what our demographic policy is because if we knew what our demographic policy is, then we'd know a little bit more what it means in the income tax system. If I were to go back to the initial thought when I said that my colleagues from the Ministry of Finance were spending a lot of time with us, it would be much better to spend a lot of time with us with colleagues who are responsible for the economy, who are in charge of demography because it would mean that they are preparing laws, that they have laws, that some laws change and supplement because in fact the finances are last in all of this, and not that we are actually talking about this reform all the time about tax laws, and we are not even too close to them, so it says that we are going to go from behind and I'm afraid that when you read and when you see all these laws that answer is like that, that we are very close to that, we will have a public administration absolutely crowded with a lot of employees and we will have big malls in which you will be able to spend something, and who is going to deal with the economy, which this economy, which is going to be, I'm afraid that we don't have that answer. Also, I'm interested in maybe it'll be there in the late hours of the night, if there's a lot of us to discuss, so there'll be reading, the obvious, so when it comes to discharging or taxing young people, and then there's up to 25 or 30 of them, it's about 700 million kuna. In the city of Zagreb, I recently had the opportunity to hear that this would be a burden on the budget of the City of Zagreb of 420 million kuna, so someone made a mistake, or the City of Zagreb was wrong when he said that there would be a deficit in the budget of 420 million kuna or in the forecast you were wrong, is it approximately the City of Zagreb is between 28 to 29% related to the amount that should be, so there is obviously some mistake in the matter, I do not want to judge you and cannot judge who made the mistake, but someone did. What should be read from the IRS, so I usually support this idea that the laws go into two readings and that, for example, in two readings, it was the holiday law, or the holidays in the Republic of Croatia, which was usually in HS on Friday, we would say okay. You chose two readings and each time you chose two readings. At this point we will have on Thursday, which means in 2 days' voting on the budget, this second reading will be formal because it will not be able to connect with each other so that it will probably be about this number of parliamentary deputies or something smaller that is wrong. If you had decided that these laws go into emergency procedures, and first and second readings wouldn't mind. When you're looking at tax laws at all, when you're looking at the whole envelope at all, then you should look at the state and look at certain units of local self-government and the way they work and there's this reduction of the tax announced, the VAT from 25 to 24%, it's good that you gave up, it's good that we and you are aware that it wouldn't do anything but individuals, but make something simpler system, make something clearer system, and we appreciate that it would be good, because I'm really not going to use all 20 minutes because when you're in the last clubs, the clubs before you already said everything that's important to say, you can just recapitulate or emphasize some other things. Some of this set of 9 laws we can absolutely support and we will support, some of it not, but somehow we don't seem to have to call everything reform because everything is not a reform, and what I'm absolutely sure is that this country and all of us are urgently missing one reform, I don't think one government can make a lot of reforms, but when two or three reforms are left behind by one government that no one, that's, that's, that's a lot. I think everyone in that last year's term has to ask what reform it is in my portfolio and what's well done and what's done so that no one, no matter how it comes, can give up, so I think that's what you in the Ministry of Finance need to ask yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172015	Thank you, too. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, next is colleague Marin Škibola in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, please welcome fellow Shkibol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172016	Thank you, Honorable Vice President HS, distinguished MPs, of course, those present, distinguished colleagues from the ministry, should say that this new tax reform is a reform that cannot change the economic situation in society. Why can't he? Because tax policy, fiscal policy, fiscal reform cannot make those radical reforms within the economic system necessary and necessary. Personally, I believe that monetary policy should be more engulfed there and that monetary policy is more a potential driver of the economy in the Republic of Croatia than it is a fiscal policy itself. Fiscal policy can establish some balance, it is good to relieve Croatian citizens of different intentions, it is good to relieve Croatian entrepreneurs of taxes, but it cannot start an economy as monetary policy can, and for monetary policy is responsible for monetary policy Mr. Vujčić, we see in the last 20 years a stagnation of monetary policy in which there is no creativity at all, so we fixed the exchange rate, stimulates imports, the kuna is too high. Many economists agree that the kuna is too far-fetched and therefore we have weak exports and ultimately this net external trade balance, so it is solely monetary policy responsibility, not fiscal policies. I have the impression that in this term, the Croatian Government has focused all its attention on fiscal policy and these tax reforms, and that monetary policy has absolutely been ignored and the only goal of today's National Bank Governor is the implementation of the euro into the Croatian monetary system, as if when we introduce the euro that all the economic problems of the Croatian state will be resolved, this is Governor Vujčić's policy and such a policy is supported by this government that I personally cannot reconcile with. It should be said that young people in Croatia are a group all governments should pay more attention to. So the fact is that the future of this country depends on young people, that's a fact and we can't ignore it. So young people are a pillar of the Croatian state in the future. For these very reasons, it is necessary to provide conditions and perspective for young people in Croatia to stay in this country and to build a family and achieve their existence. It should be said that today young people in Croatia are discriminated against because they have to leave the Croatian state, the country they love, the country where they want to live for purely existential reasons and that is simply devastating. Such a policy that drives young people out of our country does not drive them publicly and verbally, but indirectly drives them because this kind of economic policy that is implemented indirectly drives them from our country to neighbouring countries. A political elite that doesn't see that kind of political elite simply doesn't see it in the long run. So they have no long-term strategic goals but look exclusively at short-term interests. And what will be the consequence of such a policy? The result of such a policy, both HDZ and SDP, because both HDZ and SDP have led 20 years of such a policy is that around 2050, according to some of the analyses I have read, these are official documents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will be only about 3 million inhabitants, so everyone else will leave this country. We have a situation where Austria's restrictions on Croatian citizens are lifted in July next year, and what happens then? When the restrictions Austria had on Croatian citizens are lifted, a new wave of exodus follows, followed by a new wave where young educated people will unfortunately go to Austria again, Vienna is not far away and it is devastating, it is disastrous. Just see what the nurses' salaries are, here recently the nurses had a protest right outside Mark's square, see what the salaries of nurses in Austria are, about 2,100 euros. And how many are in Croatia? Not a thousand euros. Each tax reform should aim to meet the conditions for greater consumption, and thus will ultimately increase and produce, reflecting on GDP. However, it cannot and must not be the sole objective of economic policy as GDP can grow, but the quality of life and economic conditions in the country can be poor. So wages can be low, and GDP can grow, unemployment can be high, and GDP can grow. Therefore, GDP cannot and must not be one of the main indicators and one of the main factors that the Croatian government needs to focus on. Today we live in a time when social inequality is greater than ever before and such a system creates a form of pyramid scheme and in that pyramid scheme you have a minority that is getting richer and has a majority that no matter how hard it works and works, their wages are low and they are each month wondering if they will have enough to meet their needs, whether they will have enough to service their debts. So we have a big problem with the people in charge, with the blocked citizens, so it was one of the main topics during the previous presidential elections, and it looks like again the main topic will be the citizens in charge and blocked. Everyone here wants to raise some policy points, but rarely who deals with the cause of these problems, and the causes of these problems are not only in fiscal policy but they are definitely in monetary policy which, with a higher money offer, could encourage the Croatian economy and could stimulate the economy in a way that is lower interest rates and thus increase investment. And the fact is that I said that many legislative acts go to the benefit of this high-income minority and that's what makes me sad because in this way we create in society a single caste that is untouchable, around that caste are often collected and certain interesting structures and in fact we in Croatia have a state of such that these interesting structures rule the state rather than the government itself. I remember when a real estate tax was to be introduced and then many rebelled against that real estate tax and I am not necessarily for that real estate tax, but why didn't it finally go with that measure of real estate tax? Well, it's not like it didn't work out because they were citizens against real estate taxes. With a measure of real estate tax, it did not work out because those main players, the main and interest structures that benefit from such a system, which benefit from that, which concentrated capital and which ultimately hold most of the ownership in the media, they did not accept that measure of real estate tax because who has the most real estate? Well, the banks have the most real estate. As regards youth measures, this reduces the income tax obligation by 100%, for young people up to 25 years and 50% for young people aged 26 to 30 years, the amount of 700 million kuna was projected to this extent next year and that measure will cover some estimates of 320 000 young people. On behalf of the Independent Youth List Club, I must say that I welcome this measure, it is good, I have certain criticisms on that scale, but the fact is that this measure is still going to make young people have bigger salaries but not enough, I say not enough, we should always strive for more, we should seek the standard of what countries today young people go to Austria, Germany, Ireland, but this measure is good, we will support this measure and it is good that you have seen how it is necessary in some way to stimulate young people in the country because, as I said at the beginning of the debate, they are the backbone of society, they are the future, and if someone is going to change this rotten system, if someone is going to change this interest system, then they are young people, none other than they. Some of the comments were that older workers from 30 years of age have been discriminated against, I agree that workers in Croatia, all workers have low salaries, meaning whether they are young or older, but cannot agree that they are discriminated against. So those over 30 should still understand that this measure is a measure that encourages young people, which gives them some hope and gives them some motivation to stay and create a family here. So, these comments, which came in the same way as some MPs, as if they were being discriminated against by that measure older, I don't think such comments are responsible and that this should not be interpreted in such a way. For years, in the Croatian public, citizens are divided on these ideological topics and I see it as one of the major problems, meaning the same thing during this presidential campaign, and they are constantly putting these ideological topics into the first place, they are distracting the public's attention to these key topics that are of economic nature, they are moving the public's interest on those issues most plagued by Croatian society, which is a rotten judiciary because without a rotten judiciary, there will be no investment of whatever tax and fiscal good conditions we have, and if we have a trom, rotten, corrupt, corrupt judiciary, we will have no investment. So the judiciary is one of the roots of the problem that we finally have to deal with and I don't see any radical reforms within the judiciary, it's all loose, it's all superficial, and it's all not enough. The proportion of young people in the total population is around 17.3% and their employment in our country is 40.9%. In Croatia, almost 59% of young people aged 25 to 34 live with parents, where we are EU records, with an average of half the age. So one 28.5% of young people live in the EU on average with parents, with us almost 59%. So that's one of the devastating data, and that data can't be attributed to anything but the poor economic condition and the low wages that young people have today and not to any other perspective, meaning nothing else, it's not our culture, it's not our tradition that young people live with their parents for 40 years so it can't be attributed to these elements, I can agree that today young people later get married, but I think it's precisely these economic reasons, the reasons why young people live with parents, look at the prices of rental apartments, how high the rent is, for example. here in Zagreb and then how will we expect the general of young people to decide on their own, on their own life. At the beginning of measures for young people should have been felt already in January 2020 on salaries, unfortunately it does not seem to feel then but after that because the government decided on the annual accounting. This would mean that the measure would be felt in August 2021 in the form of tax returns. Perhaps this is better because it is often used by employers. They use them in a way that they could now give less gross wages and actually keep a net salary to young people like they had before and then only they would benefit from that measure, so that the same decision could agree with it, I can say that it's good that you went to that annual account, not to the monthly account. This, of course, would not have happened in the public sector, but in the private sector, everything and everything is happening, so very likely certain employers would have used it for their own interests, not in the interest of young people. The criticisms that come from local self-government leaders can understand that they are unhappy with smaller revenues for their budgets, but somewhere they need to be saved, not only local leaders need to save and the central state, so the state is also giving strong money to certain unnecessary things where it can be saved, and it is embarrassing, but unfortunately, that's how the political system works, because all these interest structures that then vote on the basis of personal, self-interest. So they do not vote on some preferences, they do not vote on the basis of a programme because citizens think that certain policies will change the situation in the system and society, but vote for options of personal interest and such, such a methodology of work is precisely related to the biggest parties in Croatia for HDZ and SDP. These are two boots of the same system and HDZ and SDP maintain such a system as it is because it is in their interest, this bipolar system in which they de facto do not correspond to those third options that occur because the third options that arise require reform of that system, and they do not respond. They're only responding to these superficial, superficial changes, and so are these changes about tax reform that some of them can welcome, but as I said at the outset until this one enters the CNB until we change the root monetary policy, until we have one true, expansional monetary policy in which larger investments will be made, simply our economy, our economy will not endure future periods. I believe that all institutions should recognize the importance of young people for our country and give them unreserved support. It is good that there may never be more young representatives in this assembly and such practice should continue. Citizens in the elections should give greater support to young people, regardless of which parties they were in, especially today when there is a preferential voting model. The Independent Youth List club will support a measure of tax relief for young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172017	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the MPs' club. The next colleague, Tulio Demetlik, is in front of the IDS, PGS and LRI. Here's my colleague Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministry representatives, today's debate on the continuation of tax reform, the fourth round, but also the tax reform so far, I want us all to see together where and in which direction tax reform is going. How much it has affected and how much it will affect the revenues of the budget of units of local and regional (regional) self-government. I would like to point out that this exposure represents not only the views of our club but also the views of most units of local and regional (regional) self-government, mayor, mayor and mayor regardless of whether they are from the ruling coalition or from the opposition. Most of them consider reform to be carried out mostly again across the back of municipalities and cities and counties, and eventually again through the citizens themselves because they will be the ones to be denied in meeting their needs. We have to be honest and say that if we look at the total units of local and regional self-government and their budgets it looks pretty good because they've been growing in recent years, but I'll repeat when we look at it together. But it's not all that, when it's a little elaborated, when we see what units of local and regional self-government are the most developed, which invest most in their local environment, which are the driver of economic development, which most singles out into the fiscal balancing fund and how much these tax reforms affect the continuation of their economic growth, then the situation is different. Then we see that this new round of tax reforms as well as those previously affect the most and we can freely say and take some of the financial revenues to cities, municipalities and counties. The Ministry assures us that local self-government units have not received less, but we claim they have. Is it true, at least on the assumption that this reform will reduce the income of units by about 800 million kuna, I speak about the dispensation of young people we support, but we need to be clear and responsible and say that these incentives for our young people actually provide for cities and municipalities and counties, not countries for which the government did not provide compensation measures for cities, municipalities and counties. Also increasing the non-taxable share of income from 3,800,00 to 4,000,00 kn which we also support, but will also represent a loss in the budgets of municipalities, cities and counties of 500 million kuna for which the Government is in the 2020 budget. foresaw compensatory measures, but in projections for 2021 and 2022. It is now evident that these funds are not foreseen. In fact, it is about further centralisation of public finances and further burdensome local budgets, although the government is stressing on every occasion how it implements decentralisation. However, the measures it proposes and implements it have been denied. I would like to stress that this whole tax reform and compensatory measures, as well as the separation of the fiscal balancing fund, is affecting the most developed units of local self-government in such a way as not to monitor their economic growth and development, the effects of economic growth are lost and these local self-government units are kept at zero, which is certainly not promising. You at the Ministry of Finance certainly know as experienced economists that something doesn't work when you invest and then lose the effects of that investment. As a result, as far as we have information, certain cities and municipalities that have invested significantly in their local community, today have major problems with drawing up their budgets, have problems for further investment that are at stake, without talking about strategic and long-term planning of investments due to the constant incurring of local budget autonomy. It should also be said that the Alignment Fund is filled with revenue from cities and municipalities, which then the state is just redeploying. We suggest that this injustice should be corrected, that the possibility of a different distribution of income tax should be considered in a way that increases the share of cities and municipalities by 5%, i.e. From 60 to 65%, the county by 3%. 20%, while the share of fiscal balancing would be compensated from other taxes that are State revenue. Only then could the government boast that the increased original incomes of local self-government units, or that the money remains where it is achieved, would then be the right way to decentralisation. I must also say that we are for solidarity, for help to be less developed and to develop evenly, but in a way that does not slow down those who are well and rapidly developing economically because they are and must continue to be the wheel of overall economic development. I think it is time that most tax reforms are finally stopped to harm local and regional self-government, but that the state takes over part of its responsibility. We must give the units of local self-government the opportunity to take responsibility for their development and economic progress especially for those who have all the necessary opportunities to do so. That distribution would allow us not to slow down more in their development, more investment in regional and local development projects and programmes, which in practice would mean that we have started and are carrying out so much needed and functional and financial decentralisation. Another factor in faster development of the Republic of Croatia is the index of development of cities and municipalities, which has proved to be restrictive from past experience. We therefore propose that a new approach is needed to units of local and regional self-government in enabling the withdrawal of financial resources from the national level and at the level of withdrawal from the EU Funds. We are calling for more effective coordination of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Regional Development and EU funds to enable all cities and municipalities to make new sources of funding available to make up for it. The aforementioned ministries need to find a model to continue helping those less developed, but with the control and analysis of the spending of the aided funds, and to continue not to derail successful and not slow down overall economic development. And please, from the Ministry, and also from the Government, don't say that you're giving something to counties, cities and municipalities, but you're just returning what you took away from them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172019	Thank you and the last debate on behalf of the club of representatives, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU, SNAGA, Independent Representatives and New Politics is colleague Tomislav Žagar, please welcome colleague Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172020	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues, here's my debate to begin with the verse of a folk song, I kind of loved it, and I learned even to dance, there's one part of that song, "three steps you, three steps there, turn around and give you a kiss." Namely, why did I remember that song because it seems to me that this fourth round of tax reform now might describe exactly these three steps to you, three steps there. Of course, not immediately saying that everything in this, in this, in this reform, is negative, but there are a lot of good things, but these, as the government calls reform, have, in fact, been unable to face the key challenge, and I will try to talk about it in this debate. So, every minister, so does Minister Maric, every finance minister, and Minister Maric is facing two let's say conflicting demands. On the one hand, he cares or has to worry about filling the budget, so the budget has to be filled so that he can meet all the needs on the expenditure side of the budget, and that job has to be done and in this sense he does not have many maneuvers because there are many requirements on the spending side of the budget. On the other hand, he tries to charge both citizens and entrepreneurship at the same time so that they can survive so that at the end of the day they can either charge or make these tax revenues. And where is the main trap hiding there? On the one hand, while Minister Maric is taking care of the tax charge, and at this point he is doing it because GDP growth is based mostly on consumption, on the spending side none of the most important so-called. structural reforms in order to reduce the pression on the spending side and then to achieve this second obstacle requirement, which is the discharge of entrepreneurship and citizens. And while that's the case, things aren't good. The health system, pension system, social giving all this requires more and more money from day to day, and efficiency is weak, especially in the health system. On one occasion, Minister Maric is not here right now, I asked him if he ever asked Minister Kujundzic what was going on in the health system, which he did to make the health system more effective. Here's an example. In his time as Minister Varga, I think that's when the information started, there was a phase and there was also a need to realise the e-Manual, so to physically avoid the paper that patients would receive as a manual for further examinations. And from the point of view of the paper printing itself is not a certain cost, but from the point of view of the efficiency of the system, especially a large waiting list, it is an extremely important problem. Because kudikamo would be better off if the doctor who is issuing the manual had already scheduled the patient for one of the possible appointments. This is how a man gets an order, he orders himself, and who can guarantee that he will not be ordered in more places and thus increase the actual administrative waiting list. So to stabilise tax revenues, to be realistic, we have to control the expenditure side of the budget, and this has not worked or worked well enough in the Republic of Croatia. As for the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia who carry at the end of the budget burden, so if you want to use VAT on consumption, according to real sector data, 780,000 or half of the employees in the Republic of Croatia are in private businesses, not in the real sector, I misrepresented myself, in private companies. But if we subtract some 180,000 employees from companies that are doing business with the state based on government orders, you actually have 600,000 employees that we can call directly in the private sector and depend on the market. Why is this information important? It is important for the reasons why we can see that in undeveloped counties those most underdeveloped employees are also based on the budget. Journalists called this situation Maric's paradox in the Republic of Croatia. In fact, Minister Maric has been cutting taxes for the fourth time in several, and the tax press is growing, the tax bite in GDP is growing. How is that possible? Well, the answer is simple, because of VAT, very simple because of VAT. VAT revenues are growing faster than GDP itself. That's why I told the Minister about the reform. Minister, we light the tires, we squeeze the gas, the wheels slip. VAT revenues are growing faster than GDP. It's not just Minister Maric's fault, we've been building such an economy for years, and now it's coming out of our heads. He mentioned a fellow Skibol, but it's more of an excellent talk about the kuna course and our export component. In the debate on the budget, I said, and now I have to do it again, we, I won't say, are disgusted, but the main negative side for this year's budget, and it happened because of previous years, bad administration, bad governance was that we had to pay out of the budget 2.3 billion I mean guarantees in shipbuilding. But imagine how much the Croatian economy lost by losing shipbuilding as an export component and everything that shipbuilding was meant to generate as an incentive for domestic production. Why didn't it feel? For many years, the components are the highest price in shipbuilding, which is the equipment of the ship all these components come from abroad. The question now is both at the Peljega Bridge and with all our infrastructure projects what is the component that comes from abroad. And therefore, this EUROSTAT data on the amount or share of taxes and contributions to GDP is not surprising 38.6%, and the country's total revenues are rising to the finished half of GDP. And these are the problems this government certainly won't face because there's not enough time to face, and that's what any other government expects. As far as the value added tax itself is concerned, and this first general VAT rate from 25 to 24 is because the prime minister himself said in the introduction and the prime minister said here in the assembly, due to the union's demands, due to the end-and-teacher strikes, the government decided not to reduce the general rate of tax, the VAT rate to 24% but will remain at 25%. We see that even representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, at least as I saw in the public debate on this bill, support it because they say that the majority of VAT is.../incomprehensible on the basis of import products and it will not, this reduction by 1 percentage point will not help the Croatian economy, and it will only reduce revenues in the budget. But let me say, even though I'm not an economist, it's not exactly trivial, and I think a reduction in the overall VAT rate of 1% would generate something, certainly. You can't just say that that's a 1 percentage point you wouldn't mean in, you wouldn't mean anything, and if anything else then at least this in a psychological sense that's moving in that direction. According to the data, if we compare the Republic of Croatia with other countries, we do not have, we do not have a higher tax burden, but what is certainly one of the worse things, and I warned Minister Marić, his idea, and not only the idea he put into the law, this law was here in the Croatian Parliament to go as taxing property through a property tax that did not live. I think she was misrepresented. I don't think a communal fee should be touched that she should remain what she is, a communal fee because a municipal fee for her is expected to be some sort of counter-service to local self-government units, you know why a municipal fee is paid. Real estate tax should go first of all from, as a tax on wealth, property tax, capital tax, and he should go from richer to poorer. This is how it got the impression that the real estate tax wanted to hit the poorest layer. Then I also warned Minister Marić of the situation in Slavonia where you can buy a house in Slavonia today for, indeed, a great amount, in other words if someone comes a little richer can buy an entire street or, so it happens that individuals are now buying whole villages. That's why the property tax should be set up differently. And why is that? So just to achieve the objectives set by this reform, to reduce labour prices, to make entrepreneurship competitive and to increase productivity. Like this, by reducing the i.e. Not by reducing the general VAT rate by 1 percentage point, the government says, and that will be because tax revenues will increase further, I expect further increases next year, there will be money to increase in the public administration sector and so on for education, healthcare and other areas. However, ministers when the government is really going to face productivity measurements in these sectors, people no longer believe that the government, this government, I don't know if the next one will be ready for, at all, reforms, key reforms. Watch out for the solutions we hear in public space where someone claims that 100,000 people should be fired or I don't know what they are, these are very bad messages. What the government should do is certainly people who are working now, who are employed, allow them to do their job, whether by informing or by any other organisation of the job, and people are not guilty if they are unemployed, and they have no job. It's the one who hired them there, and that's the general impression of society. It's not because I say it here from the pay phone but it's a general impression in society, people are called love on, in all sorts of ugly names, I say it's not their fault if they don't really have and if they can't do their job. In this direction on the spending side of the budget could be done much more, much more because many when they heard the prime minister say so easily we will increase 6.2%, many people working in the real sector said afterwards, so there is nothing left for us but to leave this country, and that is not a good picture. We must not conflict these two sides, people who work in the public sector and the private sector, even on the contrary, those in the public sector must be services or services to those in the private sector, but it really needs to be brought to life. That it doesn't happen that, that people actually don't know where they are, who they need to address and how they have to solve the problem. Here's a very picturesque display, in my municipality we have an ambulance, we can't have with a neighboring municipality, we can't have two doctors, we should have one doctor who, by new law of Article 55, allows a doctor to work on a separate location, but that simply, we don't know now, there's no way for the administration to solve it. Minister Kujundzic said it is very simple to resolve, but it is very difficult in practice, given everything that awaits us in the administration. Therefore, Croatia should make additional efforts in terms of reform that, first of all, entrepreneurship has in the public sector partners, rather than in the public sector, there are resistances. As for hospitality and reduction, the rate was 10%, was introduced 10% later, increased to 13%, but the truth is that there are colleagues here, I think that the Greek fellow was then referring to food including drink, beer and wine and showed later, the analyses showed that at that time increased, increased, increased revenues to catering. Indeed, the revenues have increased and ministers believe if someone threatens to take the industry out of the country to some other places, believe the production of beer and wine can't take away, they won't take away from the Republic of Croatia anywhere. The beer and wine will be produced here, if you say no to beer and wine for some reason, and those reasons cannot solve the VAT rate, it must be resolved by the tax administration for evasion or showing that for the Great Lady on average someone drank 0.05 liters of beer, then it is not a problem of tax administration, it is not a general VAT rate and I see no reason why you did not reduce VAT and to, to, to, to some 2,000, a large success in Slavonia, I said that for the last time, it would not be possible to measure Slavonia from tourist places surely, to achieve traffic, to watch the catering facility from 1.500,00 to 2.00 kn a day is a great success in Slavonia, and therefore the reduction of the rate of VAT, and I say that it would certainly contribute to some 1.500.00 to 2,000 kn a day is a major success in these interests which you think about in the long term, so that we can be in the long term, so that we can be able to make sure that we have a lot of beer with our friends, so much moreexpensive , if we can be able to be able to make a lot of thecountry. Although it seems a banal story about it, it is important in terms of some thinking about the future and development of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. As for this release or return of excise duty on rail transport, this is certainly to be welcomed, there is also a tram transport, I think that some cities, I see that in Zagreb the censorship for pensioners is 3.200,00 kn for free showing, if I have seen it well, I think that they should, alone, carry these carriers, especially in tram transport, I think in Dubrovnik I read that there is a paradox around that transition from one status to one of the poorest layers, if it is already released by tram carriers, then they should translate it into the release of the tickets of those poorest. I hope that this will generate a shift in the rail sector, because it is diesel fuel and electricity because there are both modes of transport, so here and there, and we support that measure. We at the club support a lot of these measures that you have listed here, but those in this system, while our GDP, GDP growth is based on consumption, GDP is practically swallowing everything, it's the biggest tax revenue and you don't have a lot of fiscal capacity, and in the end, even though this debate, it's hard to discuss this kind of complex is that there are a lot of things that can be discussed, so to a man a little bit and running his thoughts, but you see, from the opposition come good suggestions, a fellow Greek said, I've already, I've already thought about it before, in a debate I've said that tax profits should be released from tax gains, those who increase their wages because logic is very simple why someone has a big profit, and let me express myself, church girl, give a small salary. You in Slavonia now have kindergartens that he built, listen to me well ministers, 6 million kuna kindergartens, it's not normal prices, I, I have to say it here, it's not normal prices, at the same time workers... Workers must use a shovel to burn a mixer to keep them from getting electrocuted because the employer does not want to invest anything in workers' salaries, nor in, 6 million kunas of kindergartens, prices with, construction of kindergartens, construction of kindergartens to be more precise, so let the profit tax be released for those who pay workers, let's say the median salary of a certain average, the average salary is, that was one, one of the proposals. [[You don't understand the incursion from the bench.]] My colleague Petrov, I did not, I understood in one part of the di he said that when we talk about tax relief for children, of course those who are not in tax returns can neither get that tax relief nor get it, but there is a need to see and find ways through child support and through other measures that, that, indeed, people get these reliefs and here and especially at the end of fellow Demetlik when we talk about local self-government units, the ministers are justifiable that, that units of local administration will be left without significant income next year, they are now afraid, they are going to start the right paths and the right sewerage, they are doing all kinds of things, and whether there will be money, it cannot remain at the level of promise, it must be visible and measurable. I'll say for myself now, we'll still see our clubmates, I won't support these, these tax changes over these issues, and a colleague from the club will take a stand when we talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172021	Thank you, and that was the last debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club. I am opening an individual debate now, the first colleague of Ante Babic, here's my colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172022	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President HS, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, hence the Government of the Republic of Croatia's 2016-2020 programme. We clearly pointed out how and how we want to achieve tax redundancies in the Republic of Croatia and, in fact, make a strong tax reform, which is also the fourth round of tax reform and it happens as such, and the objectives were, in fact, the discharge of the tax system and the simpler system, the socially fairer system, administrative discharges and, in fact, legal certainty for taxpayers. In the adoption of three rounds of tax reform, we also witnessed in this high home that there were certain doubts, there were criticisms of such tax reform, skepticism, disdain, laws that were passed actually received decent and good results. True, when this third round of reform was discussed, there was also a reduction in value added tax from 25% to 13%, then in that part of frozen meat, fruits, vegetables, diapers, children's, children's supplies, as well as 5% on drugs, but that measure did not result in such a result, and in fact the government gave up one part, while on the other hand, those involved in trade and distribution were actually making extra profits, which was not really intentional, the intention of this government. The government's intensity was to make the consumer basket bigger, so this fourth round of tax reform in these nine amendments and the addition of laws that are taxed through all applications, which is actually the minister in his opening statement and explained. When in the public debate, some 382 comments referred to some 10 things that were repeated by citizens or institutions in these public debates. So I'm actually gonna talk about it. The fact is that these laws wanted to be clear, they were implemented transparently, precisely and the indicators of which the minister spoke today were presented in the opening statement and they, they make up around 9 billion discharges for Croatian citizens, which would be about to be shared with the number of residents in the Republic of Croatia anywhere around 2,200 kuna. It's actually an example and an indication of how and how it should go. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance knew in the very beginning how and how to implement these laws and to let them into the parliamentary procedure so that they would, at a certain time, not have so-called time period. technical complications, whether they are citizens, local self-government units or other institutions. What I was going to say, I'm going to look at just some laws, amendments and additions to the law, for example, the Value Added Tax Act, so it was also careful that the units of local self-government, not mentioned here today, are not, in order not to endanger the realisation of already started several years of projects for local self-government units and this has been thought about. Of course, the main intensity of the amendment and addition of this law is to lower the rate from 25 to 13% for preparing and serving meals in and outside the catering facilities, which is very well explained here. What I would like to talk about, and I see that there were talks on behalf of clubs during today's debate, which is actually reducing the income tax for young people up to 25 percent and up to 30 percent, respectively. Today it has been said that it is not such a good demographic measure because I will remind you when in this assembly we shed tears for all those who leave the Republic primarily to young people, the government of the Republic of Croatia has sought ways to and how to attract young people not to leave the Republic of Croatia. It is a shame that we, as assembly representatives in this high house, encourage these young ones to leave the Republic of Croatia as our media does. I have witnessed several times in the media, through several reports working outside the Republic of Croatia that they are incorrect, false, and actually serve as a tool for young people who want better and greater standards in more orderly states to leave the Republic of Croatia. So it could be heard here during the debate, that this measure is not good, that it is discriminatory and that it actually deserves an assessment of the constitutionality. And what exactly is this about? If we were to talk about the data that's being talked about here and less, I pulled up some data for this debate on the countries that we call in this case the most in Germany. Therefore, in Brandenburg and in Berlin, the average net salary is EUR 1,870 and is mainly related to the so-called ‘. Handicrafts, i.e. craftsmen, and in construction, transport and trade it is EUR 1,782. The average net salary in Baden Wurttemberg is EUR 1,654 when it is seen in the new, new countries of the Federal Republic of Germany, so the former East Germany, it is even smaller by 20%. But when you compare it to the standard of living and costing electricity, renting apartments and one higher and normal standard of living means some apartment from 69 to 70 m2, one vehicle, two children, one kindergarten with food and prices, and that cost of living, they ate in Germany over EUR 2,517. I have here a cross-section of 35 cities in Germany, their average wages, or the cost of life, or standards in the Federal Republic of Germany. And it's not how we show up here in the Croatian Parliament. So it would be better if we were telling the truth or the correct information so that people actually knew what it was about. What is certainly good about these amendments and the addition of the Law on Administrative Cooperation in the field of Taxation, this is not really about so many citizens, but about the exchange of data relating to the EU, but also about why our internal market would normally function. In the proposal and the amendment of the Income Tax Act, when increasing this personal deduction from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna, and we discussed it when the budget rebalance and the adoption of the 2020 budget, we said precisely because of the inability for local self-government units to act on it and the compensation fund of 507 million kuna, it was passed as a law and in the table showing all municipalities and cities, i.e. the amounts that are known as such quarterlyly pre-refunding. So all municipalities and cities will quarterlyally receive exactly the amounts that were passed by this law. Thus, in a transparent, public, clear and analytical way, we have never had it, we have never had it here in the Croatian Parliament before. I think the government did an extremely good job. So it was known that this portion of income would reflect income tax and local self-government units, and that was actually the reason for this compensation fund. I am obliged to say something else that was repeated today during the debate, and in fact it was the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on coffee tax and non-alcoholic beverages, and the government called in its explanation and explanation for the Croatian Institute of Public Health and when I saw this public presentation of results related to the European and this initiative to track children's thickness in the Republic, then these data are catastrophic for the Republic of Croatia and in fact, we are among the first 5 countries in the EU for excessive body fat in children, so, children from 8 to 9, that I am now not dismembering girls and more adults. It was one of the reasons why the government also thought of children's health and the change of the social climate for deciding to amend and supplement this law between, I say, among other things. The fact is that when you look at the explanation of this law that some countries have already introduced it, from Hungary, a long time ago. Portugal and other countries. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172023	Comrade Babic, thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, a colleague of the coat of arms and a colleague of Maras. The first one's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172024	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I've listened to your debate and you've talked a lot about tax discharge in your debate. However, I'll show you a document. This is a Eurostat document two weeks ago that speaks about the share of tax in Member States' GDP. And do you know what that document says? The document says that the tax in GDP is Member States at more than 40%, but in Croatia it has increased by 1.3% or 20 billion kuna since 2015, when we turn it into GDP. So please explain to me that we have a tax discharge, and at the same time we have an increase in the share of taxes in Croatia's GDP and 20 billion kuna in 3 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172025	On the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172026	So I don't doubt that information at all that you said to a colleague of the coat of arms. Tax policy is always about economic growth, so the circumstances in which we are located or in which the governments of individual states are, in fact, running their tax policy in the same way that they think is appropriate for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And today, in his presentation, the minister has made it clear that you cannot look at the flat or individually defined taxes, or groups of citizens to whom this applies, without looking at one whole and one broad picture. There is no country in the world that has no taxes. Of course, it depends on this economic growth in which, adequately, they have, produce or work, the overall picture, thus determining their tax policy. With that in mind, I'm looking at the Eurostat data you were talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172027	Thank you. Next replica, colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172028	Thank you very much, Mr. Babic. My colleague Grbin told you one Eurostat analysis, so you are now a de facto of people who are dealing with statistics and doing so at EU level said that they are focused only on the part, and that they are not fully monitored, I think they are just following the whole situation and that they are slightly more educated and see a wider picture than we see here in the Parliament. But what I'm particularly interested in, in your debate, you mentioned a full tax reform that, you know, you've been keeping an eye on this for the fourth time in three years. The 4th time we have full tax reform. Now, I'm curious, how many times does Mr. Babic need to make a full tax reform for her to be complete? How many times should a full tax reform be made in one term to be complete. It's a very important piece of information our citizens want to hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172029	Thank you, Mr. Maras. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172030	Thank you very much, dear vice president of HS. It's a good game of yours, I don't believe that I said that we've done a full reform three times, I said we've done it in four circles and this is the final round, so the government of the Republic of Croatia brought its programme in 2016-2020. From 2016 to 2020 we had three rounds ago, this is the fourth round of changes and the addition of 9 tax laws from income tax, VAT, fiscalisation, administrative discharge, motor vehicle taxes, coffee and non-alcoholic drinks. And that ends this tax reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172031	Thank you. We're continuing... Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172032	Thank you very much. He's been injured. 238, here, I will quote Minister of Finance Zdravko Marić, 10th November 2016 in the Government. Tax reform is complete and comprehensive. It's the first of this whole attempt. Then after that, we have a few more complete attempts. We want to know how many times it takes to complete the reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172033	I'm not getting into the metrics, but you've hurt the institute, so let's call it that. The injuries of the Rules of Procedure, so I'm giving you a warning in accordance with article. 239. We're continuing with colleague Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172034	Thank you very much, Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot in this call tax reform of illogical whole sentences. So, first of all, we're talking about the tax discharge that we're seeing is gone because the income from the tax is growing, on the other hand the fourth round of the entire tax reform, and the fourth time is already changing, we'd probably have a fifth round next year, but it won't be at this time more of this government and then there won't be a 5th full circle, but I want to say at the beginning once again, to express regret that we didn't discuss this before the budget. So when we discussed the budget I said that I would like to have this proposal we discussed before the state budget was adopted. Why? In addition to making it easier for us to discuss there is another situation where the budget we discussed last week's revenues in that budget are already based on some decisions that should stem from this fourth full tax reform. And now I wonder what will happen if we don't adopt this proposal like this. And you've been planning, say, here's the minister's much bigger income than excise duties, for example, what if next week I don't know Mr. Vrdoljak says the HNS won't vote for this full reform if the revenues from excise duties don't go into knowledge, science, education because that's why HNS entered this government and what we're going to do then. Here's my colleague Curaj, if you go out now and say ha there's been a situation we won't vote for this, and then I don't know, Prime Minister Plenkovic for the eighth time has to point out before the HNS, give up some whole proposals from this reform and we've been through it, and we've been planning some bigger revenues in the budget. So that's another living proof why we should have discussed this before the budget. But, well, let's hope it doesn't happen, that the HNS won't shake the government this time, that Bandic won't support them as always and say that we need to increase further and that we will have some stability and security by 1.1 when the provisions of this tax reform should come into force. I want to look back at some of your proposals from the Minister, make some of my proposals, and hopefully since this is the first reading, so I can't make amendments that maybe you'll follow some suggestions until the second reading, if not in the second reading, I'll be giving my amendments and we'll see. Anyway, first thing, a tourist shower to the place of residence, I think it's a good thing, it's for a lot of reasons. In addition to the activities in the area of a specific city or municipality, it is appropriate for the revenues achieved in this way to remain in that city or municipality and another thing that is the amount of the tourist flats is determined precisely by the cities and municipalities for their territory. So, according to the current model, we could have had some unfair competition because let's say that if you have citizens in a town on the coast of the property, and they live in a city in the interior, so that city sets a low level of that flat, then the towns in the coast might be unfair competition compared to the coastal owners. But now I'm interested in ministers what happens to those who pay taxes on holiday homes. So now they de facto double taxation, so if someone from Zagreb has a house in a town at sea and pays taxes on a holiday house there, and with that house rents and now they're going to pay a tourist flat, is that double taxation? Could there be some sort of discharge on this issue? Secondly, I have talked to the budget on non-alcoholic drinks, so I think it is a good measure because, according to all the surveys, lately, in the number of inhabitants, we are at the top of the EU, and something needs to be done on this issue. I think one of these health taxes is good, but it's not good that the revenues from these excise duties won't go back to prevention. So when we talk about health care very little income goes to preventive purposes, and a lot of things go to the rescue let's just say some of the problems that arise. So the way I see it I think you'd be income from so-called. Health laws should be returned to some medical discharges. So today you talked about scholarships and tax discharges, we still have only 1,800 kuna or more specifically 1,750 kuna of the untaxable part of the scholarship for top athletes. I think that part should increase and that it should comply with other non-taxable duties in Croatia, and I think that would be one measure that would encourage for example. top athletes to use it even more, but those who give them these scholarships to make it bigger. Another thing, coaches who work alongside their jobs are schooled by these top athletes, and that is to say other income must or pay extra taxes on their own or clubs must pay higher fees on these coaches or they work on black, so perhaps some form of discharge should be seen there too. The other thing is, maybe you should think about some tax discharges on investment in sports infrastructure. So we invest a lot, we have old and inadequate sports infrastructure, and there's a lot of investment then cities and municipalities have to pay there and VAT and certain donations. Could you perhaps consider a relief for such purposes? The second thing, when we talk about car excises, that's where you ministers mentioned that you were working on the issue, I'm also talking about it myself all the time, so I think you should be encouraged by a younger fleet, it's already done, but I don't think these things are seen properly on our roads. I don't know if I should, there's a fellow customs officer you said, maybe consider banning the import of older vehicles, I don't know of 7 or 10 years. Some neighbouring countries have or disbursement taxes for new cars even more since they should encourage this. Another thing, around electric vehicles, we now have you that the Ministry of Environmental Protection gives incentives to the purchase of electric vehicles, but this applies only to natural persons, does not apply to legal persons. I think that there might be a larger space to encourage the same legal person or that here's counterpart Bacic from HDZ suggested, Ante Bacic suggested tax discharge for the purchase of electric vehicles and I think it's a good measure. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna touch down on the income tax for the young. So I personally support this measure and I suggest that you make a 100% release for young people up to 30 years of age by the second reading, and I think that this model that you have now proposed is not just because it detimises young people who are studying in colleges. And this minister you said in the introduction that it might be an incentive for some to graduate before they graduate, it's impossible. So someone who goes to college when he's 19 if he gets his age that way and graduates from college at 24. He's not going to find a job right now, and he can't practically benefit from this proposal, so I'm proposing a tax discharge of 100% to 30 years. But I also demand that you find a model of compensation to local self-government units whether through the Harmony Fund, through some other way, but here in any case that's my suggestion. I think it's a good measure and that any measure that promotes any tax discharge of young people is good. I was thinking this morning when you said whether to do it monthly or at the end of the year, and I'm even more prone to this variant that at the end of the year, you go through tax returns, and I think it's better because then you'll prevent employers from reducing gross wages and then young people through that form from seeing the effect of that measure, so I don't think it's bad, but here I would personally increase to 30 years and I would cancel these 50%. And secondly, I welcome the reduction in the reduction of the overall VAT rate by 1% because it would not produce any effect, so that's what we in the SDP warned about. I'm glad that you've rerouted some of that money to pay, and I'd rather you accepted our proposal to increase your personal deduction and to make it right from that giving up, but here's at least part of what you've been listening to, and I'm glad to hear it. I personally believe that a 1% reduction would have no effect or psychologically or anything, but would just leave that money to the merchants and I think you've made a good decision about it. The effect would be to reduce VAT from 25 to 20% or even less, then that would be the right measure. And since in these circumstances it's what it is, I'm glad that at least in that part you listened to our SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172035	Thank you very much. We've got more replicas, let's start with order. He's the first respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Giujic. You come from a region that is much like mine, primarily so much that the economy of both your and my neighborhood is essentially based on tourism. So probably you and me all these years since HDZ introduced this worry about raising VAT to catering services. And these bill proposals really predict it in one part back to the former. However, it is not clear to me, and I ask you to tell me if you understand, do you understand where it comes from, the decision to reduce VAT to serving food and sweets only, not, say, non-alcoholic beverages and beverages? I think it's wrong, I think it makes it difficult for our tourism position to compete with competition, and I don't think the state is going to get a god knows what good it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172037	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172038	Thank you, comrade Grbin. That is exactly how it is not clear to me, and I do not understand why this government increased VAT hospitality after the previous government had reduced it. So I don't think they should have even increased it these two years. We now have a situation that at the beginning of the mandate they increased VAT hospitality and now in pre-election time they reduce it. But they don't do it until the end, they're doing it half as much as you said to your colleague Grbin, and I don't think it's going to have a positive effect on the caterers or on the tourist activity in the area where you and I come from. I would call this not the fourth full tax reform but the fourth pre-election reform.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172039	The next replica is the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172040	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Col. Djujic, if they had listened to us from the government to the end, then the untaxable deduction would have increased from 3,800 to 5,000 kuna. By simple calculation, you come to the fact that young people and everyone else in the country today who pays taxes permanently receive a salary of between 330 and 500 kuna. If we count on it to be only 330 kuna, so that lower limit, the overall effect for young people in the next 35 years would be about 150,000 kunas more pay. This way, young people will enjoy a 5-year measure, some of which may be more than that, some of which may be more than that, but let's say it's 5 years, and in that period they will get about 32,000 kuna on average, and they will get a birthday card that will mean a reduction in their salary for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172041	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172042	You explained that very well to your fellow Greek. I was briefly referred to as glad that the government had partially listened to us. I'm sorry they're not all the way. And yes, those figures you're saying are one sustainable solution that could have been accepted, so the budget cost would be about 800 million kuna for this measure, and I was looking at the 2020 budget projections in which the government was still planning to give up or reduce the VAT by 1%, and this reduction was planned by about 2 billion VAT revenues. So the space there was, and that's what we in the SDP say all the time, there's money, but it's a matter of priority and distribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172043	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172044	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Djujic. You were talking about tax discharges for certain sports activities, especially for young people. Introductoryly, the minister today said that one whole way to finance sports is to be considered if sport is financed not only from the state budget through a certain part of the Croatian Olympic Committee but also from the local level and the construction of certain infrastructure facilities which are certainly one can be financed from eu funds, but one other part cannot. But first of all, I think it's good to open up a debate about how to get some relief for those who are the most with children, that they're not in cafes, but that they're in sports playgrounds and I think it's definitely in one future period that we should look at, make it a model for all those who support children to play sports, to finally have certain benefits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172045	Answer, the respected representative of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172046	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Lalovac's is why I've opened this topic because it's always the rule and when we discuss this High House, then we're discussing some technical things it's a sport. So I think we need to open up the question of sports funding in exactly this way. So not looking at one now, it's always a matter of transparency, intransparency, but we never talk about concrete measures. I've given some of my thinking here, I don't know if they're good, they're not good, but I think we should start talking about it. So I think coaches who train with our athletes need to find a model for them to get paid legally and adequately. And according to current tax laws, they're being pushed into a gray zone. So clubs either pay for black or quality, top coaches leave Croatia and work in some other countries while we hire a weaker quality fit and yet they are people who work with our children and our athletes and I think we should talk about these very models of tax charges for these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172047	The next replica is the esteemed MPs, the Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172048	Dear colleague Giujic. Unfortunately, this government, when it takes a general and when it returns, returns it selectively. Let's just remember how she abolished the tax exemption for buying the first real estate to everyone and then returned through a compensatory measure only to some through subsidisation of the loan in the first few years. Also here, by giving up 1% reduction in the overall VAT rate, in some ways all citizens will feel it and will return through, say, the increase in pay base for self-employed people in the state and public sector, not in the private sector. So that's not exactly how things are balanced, but you and I need to be satisfied because at least part of our amendment that we suggested then not to increase, that it doesn't go back from 13 to 25% of VAT on catering services when we, at that time, refused that amendment. Now they're returning part of something so we can at least be partially satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172049	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172050	That's right, fellow Voter, so this whole time we're half satisfied with everything. So when it was that, the first real estate tax, we warned there, we warned that they weren't doing it, and that it was basically young families of some kind, who buys some average apartment, some 30,000 kunas in the beginning, so they basically told us not to do it. And then Kuščević was also a minister, during the night he said we would pay credit to young families and then cook it, dinstals and we got the same. So is this tax reform. We've had four complete amendments to that law. The other day I spoke to Minister Stromar, and he told me that if the government survived, it was in the midst of that crisis that in the 4th month we would have a full fifth amendment of that law again because it would as well be accepted, to be these competitions 2x a year. Here I am now announcing it here, it will be in the 4th month, and basically we have Minister Stromar every year in the 4th month to amend that law, I guess it reminds us that there is one, that he is also in the government and not just Mrs. A savage. So here's how it happens all the time, we're expecting changes in a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172051	The next replica is the esteemed MPs Dark-Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172052	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Parliament. At the end of your debate, you mentioned the problem of the vehicle, although it was primarily intended to lift the replica to your first, or I raised it to the first part where you showed fear that these laws might not be passed or perhaps the coalition will fall apart, there will be no fear, nothing will fall apart, everything is stable and everything will go further. But to go back to the topic of climate change and the theme of the car. So at one point Croatia becomes a cemetery of old cars from other EU member states, which is certainly a problem. The problem is in terms of a situation in certain cities, but the problem goes one step further. Those cars will need to be taken care of as a waste. Taking care of such cars in terms of waste will be incomparably more expensive and complicated than some others, and it should absolutely be kept in mind that these imports are as small as possible, i.e. to protect Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172053	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Stjepan Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172054	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Djujic, I am pleased that you in most cases are actually supporting and agreeing and sharing some common thoughts but I will do this before and show what I am, on the draft for the sake of the citizens, does not do you, I believe that you know that. This is a graph that tells you what tax rates are and what tax revenues are. And if you're here right now and you cut your income growth rates and that's it. This is what we need to strive for and what every economy should strive for. This point in which the ideal tax rates laid down in relation to revenues where further cuts do not affect the reduction of tax revenues and yet you relieve the economy and I think it is absolutely clear to everyone or should at least be. So that's why we have most of the tax revenue and we're reducing and discharging I think it's absolutely causal, consequently linked. And yes, you're right, and I'm glad that you've realized that if something is not done under the school reform program and the principle of reform that we won't support it and we're going to condition it, I'm glad that you're already admitting it and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172055	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172056	Thank you very much. You know, as far as these curves are concerned, it's all familiar to me, so it's my profession, so I'm done, so you don't have to give me that lecture, you don't have to give me that lecture, and I don't know what to confess. The teachers are still on strike and are still on strike, and I don't know what you did. You were heroically shouting out there in the government, we're going to go outside and then HDZ told you here we're going to do a calculation, so maybe if we don't pass in the 6th month next year then make some compensation measures, you haven't actually done anything. You have a minister in the government whose system doesn't work. So, she was supposed to leave the government, so she's already on strike there, but this is how many days I don't even count, and eventually it's going to happen to her that the kids won't even have summer holidays, they're going to make up for it in continuity. Maybe they'll be finishing school by the next year, like your party's effects. So I don't know what credit it should give you, here, please tell me what you've done to stop what's going on or I don't see well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172057	Thank you. You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172058	Thank you, dear Vice President. The Rules of Procedure, Articles 232 and 238, we are coming out of the topic of debate, fellow Djujic has transferred absolutely to another topic which is absolutely and legitimate, I am not running anything as far as I know mathematics 8 is more than 6 and we are really enabling, of course, and with further efforts to balance the coefficients We let them [[Intruder: Well, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] who are doing the only real reform in this country and finally get something that they need, whether they like it or not, please. [[Intruder: And I am asking you not to hurt the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172059	Please don't do this. No, of course not, and I'm begging [[Intruder: Please answer if the Rules of Procedure has been injured?]] Uh, here you go, Col. Djujic. [[Then wait until I finish mine, not break it up like that.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172060	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Article 239 was injured, so you colleagues were supposed to give Curai a warning and it was justified, because he came out of the picture, so we're not interested in these excuses, attempts. For their voters and within coalition talks, so we from the SDP don't care at all how they talk to HDZ and who they justify. [[Okay, come on, please don't, don't play with it.../]] So you should have warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172061	...injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I will not give you any notice, nor to him, but I ask you nicely not to play with or abuse the institution's breach of the Rules of Procedure. Okay? Please, come on. We're going to the next individual debate, which is, uh, here you go. In this assembly you can't tell the president, you could learn that at home, you could learn that at home, that's what you learn at home, courtesy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172062	I'm sorry, you didn't hear the knock, so I've heightened the experience, but you're right, I'm giving you the right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172063	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172064	Can I?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172065	Here, what do you want?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172066	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am asking for a break on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club to consult on this whole, comprehensive tax reform for the fourth time in the term of the HDZ Government, let's see, in the mutual debate, how many times it takes to complete and comprehensively reform that this reform would be at the end of the way our fellow citizens need it, Mr Grumoja, please, and to consult on one more thing that we just heard here this poor HNS attempt to show its importance in the Government of Andrej Plenkovic and failure to do what teachers or educators wanted and which is why they are still on strike and we support them as a parent. Friday is a strike in the city of Zagreb again and the children are with me I will keep them here, though there is no assembly, but this one I want to say, I want to say that we need to see why Mr. Curaj and the company from HNS support HDZ, and they did nothing. So that one trick, tossing dust in the eyes of the citizens that they will come out of the government if they are not made for professors, in the end they have done nothing still in the government and are still counting those last year, and then they will probably count on not one hand how much they will get in the next parliamentary elections. I don't think there's gonna be one or two fingers since Posavec left the HNS. So I can't wait for that moment of facing the truth with the people of the HNS and the voters, and we just have to consult a little bit more about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172067	A fellow Curai also raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172068	I thank the Honorable Chairman. I also ask you on behalf of the HNS Club for 10 minutes of breaks or breaks to consult further on the debate on this item of the agenda and what is said here. Namely, someone wants to see, someone doesn't want to see, someone will admit it, someone won't admit it, but the data is exact about what and why we're doing here and that I can agree with you. We will probably pay that price of yours in the elections whether you pay or not, submit or not, but what remains behind us remains and it is irrefutable. And if we had done it for the party rating, then we would never have done it. If we'd done it to change the furniture in the assembly then we wouldn't have done it either, we'd have gone to new elections, we'd have let Agrokor go to waste and everything else, and he wouldn't be talking about school reform today, everything that's possible about the billions that come into education, and that's irrefutable. And what HNS did, he's the blackest devil you can imagine, I know it's hard to get across your mouth, I know it, and we didn't do it for you to praise us, I know it too, don't give it to God, but what's left is what's going to be seen and at the cost of our mandate ever again in the assembly, in the party, in the country and in everything else. That's all that matters. And the fact that we're insisting on it and every time things get tight we're still being persistent, I know that maybe it's wrong for someone who'd be better off if some choices were premature, whatever, but we're still staying on it, and I think it's already become clear to everyone. Is there anything you can do better? Probably can do anything, but it's done a lot, that's for sure. If we're just looking at education, absolutely, if we're looking at a wider picture, absolutely. Is that gonna cost us? Probably will and probably will, and here are the nice people who are already sitting on the other side and they are the result. Was that worth the price? I think that given the results that will be made, the future will show, but more and more, I think the facts speak for themselves and that there is only a matter of the impression and desire of someone else, and not of what is real.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172069	Honorable representative Ivan Shuker raised his hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172070	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club in order to reassess the facts and to agree to repeat these facts in further discussion, the truth and to keep it in writing in the records of this high home, the VAT has raised from 23% to 25% by another government, some other government has reduced the coefficients to educational workers. Now look, the HDZ government comes in, reduces the tax burden on salaries and entrepreneurs, and thus releases 8 billion kunas, triggers certain economic activities, starts spending and starts and spends is seen on the revenue side of the budget, because look, if you have the same rate of 25%, and you have almost 10 billion higher incomes than VAT, that's the only consequence of certain economic developments, not increased taxes, because I would understand what your SDP colleagues say we've raised one tax, so that's why the revenue side of the budget has increased. The second thing, remember when the untaxable part rose to £2.400,00, that's when the local self-government units lost a billion and a half kuna. Were there any compensatory measures? There was a debate here when the law was passed and on the budget, and then it was promised to make compensation measures, compensation measures were never taken, units of local self-government remained at an annual level without a billion and a half kuna. What happened when the HDZ government raised the untaxable part to £3.600,00? There were compensatory measures, but the compensatory measures that were particularly expressed towards those units of local self-government that had fewer budgets, they at least got those to say rich and large units of local self-government and the results of such tax reform are seen, and now you can talk whatever you want because without increasing VAT you have a lot higher revenues in the state budget. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172071	Of course I'll give you all this break, so I'll see you in 15.42 minutes. It's 3:31 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 15.45 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172073	Thank you very much. Here I would say at the beginning before I started talking about the fourth full and comprehensive reform of Minister Marić that I find it odd that I saw my name here today on this list, of course I was embarrassed and embarrassed to be called because as far as I know, President of the Parliament punished me last Friday to prohibit participation in the session on Friday and today. But I saw myself on the list, so I came here, I don't know what happened and why the Rules of Procedure didn't respect myself, and why I'm even here today in this assembly because I got a double notice, so when I'm done, if you can give me a vice president why my name is even here and why the President of the Parliament is in violation of the Rules of Procedure. But I repeat, it would be awkward and embarrassing for you to read my name, and if I wasn't here to say that I didn't want to discuss it, but in the end, I need you to explain to me why the President of the Parliament doesn't respect the Rules of Procedure and why I'm here right now and why I'm discussing it. And now for the fourth, whole fourth, there is no Minister Marić on the fourth full and comprehensive tax reform,... four times means the same story with some changes that can be discussed. Of course, when we talk about taxes for young people who are better taxes, that story is essentially reduced to what I've been saying in the last few days about what the prime minister is at the budget, i.e. Lost even control of yourself, there were unpleasant both ministers and you who were sitting with him when I asked him if it was possible to boast so much with the growth of economic when at the same time 5% of GDP comes to Croatia from the money from the documents i.e. from the payments made by our people, which this government has largely evicted from the outside. Of course I didn't get an answer and that's not going in at all saying it has nothing to do with taxes, yes, those people are paying in the Republic of Croatia to send money to their families, they're paying and of course that's the story. But when we talk about taxpayers and discharges it's fog, I'll say that the fog and that story falls into the water is all of these discharges while we have these counties that are tombs and brakes of Croatia's development, just to tell you in the Dalmatian Zagora here in the constituency where Miro Kovac is in my constituency since the county founded 100,000 people is in those areas less. And in the area of Drniša but I know that you are often there with elections and that you will visit again, everyone who is in my constituency, you can see that it is the show. All these tax districts, which are now going to go fifth in a row, the comprehensive tax haven't brought any results yet. When you mention meat-chewing, less taxes from 25 to 13, what are you gentlemen talking about? As far as I'm concerned, I'm only looking at one segment, milk production 16% less in the Republic of Croatia than in the previous year. Pigs, never more imports. So absolutely domestic production and the survival of people in these areas, and that's proof of that. I'd like to ask someone from the Ministry, I have the 2018 data. Do you now have any information in 2018 on how much money you've come to the Republic of Croatia? These funds, of course, have something to do with these whole taxes, of course, that money is being spent, these people are being charged, even if you've allowed those people you've evicted, here's only a few last years, two, three years at least 150,000 people to allow them to vote electronically, here's when they're sending so many foreign exchanges. It's politics for you, you'll know it, mostly you older ones, politics in the '60s, '70s when even trains were organized to transport to Germany to work there and to send foreign exchanges, I'm talking about the time of the 1960s and the '70s. The same absolute policy now, the same target, same distance, means neither this is complete nor comprehensive reform. Of course, that I will also give, this is the first reading, certain amendments can't be us if we don't cut taxes to a minimum, literally to zero in mountainous and undeveloped areas of the Dalmatian Burn, examples of brick hinterland, Gorsko kotar, Like if in this area we don't give entrepreneurs and Slavonia of course, if we don't give entrepreneurs a lot more relief than in developed parts of the Republic of Croatia, there won't be any jobs in two-thirds of the Republic. So mountain and mountainous areas and undeveloped areas exclusively and the area of Slavonia, of course, exclusively triba specifically taxed..., if the triba moratorium does not pay any tax to the economics, investors who will hire people will evict you from the Dalmatian Zagora. I repeat, ever since the county's vermin, taxpayers have only a burden, and they don't have a discharge. The county's pests, the major pests are gone, the more devastating the results are gone since all the occupiers were on these parts. So all these discharges you're talking about, all the decentralisations you're talking about as something positive, everything goes through mayors and counties. And indicators of these measures are disastrous in terms of the production of agriculture and the economy within the Croatian economy as well. So this story from 3,800 to 4,000 untaxable parts of it, so please nice. I'd ask the minister to explain. We have, say, a trade chain in Austria as well as in Croatia, even more expensive are these foreign import products in the Republic of Croatia. Why our women who work as merchants? who work here, are tortured all day, even working Sundays, weekends, can't go to the bathroom why they have 10x more pay the same employer in Austria, Germany than in the Republic of Croatia if we are the EU, why, why? And in much greater profits they have worse products under the same cello-wrapped, much worse food products, I'm talking about selling us. And our employees who work, the cashiers who work, have 10x less pay than not that far from Austria where these trade chains come from. And that's what's inexplicable and it's that incentive that our people don't go there for the cash register, our wife for the cashier in Austria or Germany in the same chain of commerce. So absolutely all of these measures, this is the fourth, I will, of course, give amendments when it is in the second reading, but neither exists, so in this fourth overall, comprehensive reform of Minister Maric, there are no shifts so far and the shifts are the survival of entrepreneurs, i.e. the arrival of investors and entrepreneurs in undeveloped areas and the remaining people in these areas. If you don't break people up, that's it. Entrepreneurs in mountain-mountan areas, in assisted areas believe me, there will be no life because it is much more expensive to produce in Gorski Kotar because winter is longer. You need to spend more energy and the entrepreneur is leaving. He will come to Zagreb, so what will he do in Gorski Kotar? So we have to do everything to make these 2.3 Croatians that you moved most of them, unfortunately to third countries, so they send you money like I said through the figures 18 billion kuna a year in 2018 and in 2019 the minister will be able to boast even more about how we have economic growth and how increased consumption is. And I repeat it again and it caught the nerve, the minister was present when I asked him, I didn't have the possibility of replicating, even going with the Prime Minister's insults, but it'll be a good day's notice. Somebody explain to me what would happen with taxes and everything if you hadn't moved out and taken those people, you first moved them out and now you're taking away their dignity. So these discharges, neither are tax bonds released nor are any of these, these all four that you've had all by now, I don't know if this is more complete than the ones before but always all 4 have been more complete of this tax reform. And finally once again he said that of course this is in the first reading and of course I can't support something that's pointless. You've evicted my people and now you're taking away his dignity because in the end you're going to rent this assembly to the European public because the President of the Parliament didn't allow us to vote and at the time when We'll all remember Vukovar and that's the time when Chetnik Vukic will be here. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172074	Thank you. I am the answer you are because you first asked me a question. [[Thank you very much.]] It's a reflection of President Parliament's mercy, seriously, I'm kidding, of course. The President of the Parliament, I talked to him, he realized that he had misformed in terms of saying two days of banning speech and such a strict measure does not exist but there are two days of banning participation, i.e. coming here and participating in it. Therefore, he intended to tell you this but you were not here this morning...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172075	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172076	No, no, you weren't at the beginning of the session, but either way, of course you have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172077	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172078	Tell me what the Rules of Procedure has been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172079	Well, here's to this, and there's no harm, just to be clear, I was at the Assembly this morning at 8:00, and I was at the club, and I didn't, and I figured I was forbidden to go into the assembly here, so I wouldn't get in trouble, so it wouldn't turn out like I wanted to do the circus, and I've been in the Assembly all morning, doing my job, getting ready...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172080	Okay, but you weren't in the council room.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172081	And no one gave me information, no one gave me information. Only when I saw that I was on the list of individual discussions...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172082	If you'd been to the council, you'd have heard...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172083	..... Nobody even called the club, Mr. Secretary, nobody even called the club, I think you should have. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172084	.../The Intruder of Bucharest: And you signed up for the debate means that you thought you could come./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172085	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172086	.../Bukarica raid: You would not apply for a debate./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172087	No, no, I signed up before the hearing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172088	.../Bukarica raider: Not before yesterday./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172089	No, I always... No, no, no... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172090	All right, come on, let's get this thing straight. ... What's the injured Rules of Procedure? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[Speakers speak out loud, not included, not understood.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172091	So, the Rules of Procedure on the rights of parliamentary deputies has been injured. You have just admitted that the chairman has violated the Rules of Procedure and you have begun to justify it by being gracious to the parliamentary representative of the Most. He wasn't merciful. He broke the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172092	So I said, I said I was joking./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172093	And it's absolutely, I think these are serious things that aren't for fun, so the MP has been disabled from participating in a session of the Parliament, no one has informed us about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172094	.../Intruder Reiner: Well, your time is up./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172095	No one's informed us about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172096	.../Intruder Reiner: No one has disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172097	So the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament was violated by the chairman, i.e. the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172098	No one made it impossible, as he made it impossible for him, now the man was talking. What are you talking about? ... Well, he checked in, checked in, and he talked normally. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's not, we're not in kindergarten, really. Comrade Bull, please don't. All right, then, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172099	Mr President-in-Office of the Parliament has violated the Rules of Procedure by taking the right of parliamentary deputies. I don't need his charity. He forbade me to speak here on Friday and told me I was banned on Tuesday. Therefore, I do not need any charity from Gordan Jandrokovic, who received 600 votes, it gave me a vote, not you or him, but it gave me 11,000 people, citizens who are provincials, who he calls provincials, and therefore I do not care about anyone's charity. Neither will I ask, nor will I give it to you, but the people brought me here... [[Aggression: Fine, you're out of time]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172100	Just have a nice sit-down and get a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172101	This is the biggest shame you've ever done, the biggest ever.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172102	You're getting a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172103	You can give them 100.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172104	You have two replicas on your exhibit, the first respected representative of Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172105	A colleague of Rada Končar, but this colleague Bulj, I came forward because you mentioned mountainous mountain areas in your discussion. So, you appealed here to the government and to the minister that for the mountainous mountainous areas you should come up with additional tax reliefs and tax-delivery areas of this mountainous mountainous mountainous area, I think that your appeals are addressed to the wrong address because this is, this government has passed the Law on mountainous mountainous areas that entered into force on 1.1 this year and there is nothing in that law, it is one empty paper in which it speaks additional measures or you benefits and facilitates will be prescribed in the strategy of the development of mountainous areas and the law has prescribed that this strategy must be brought within 30 days, so by 1.4 this year, nothing has been done today, so we have no strategy, no measure, we have nothing, we have nothing but paper that had to be passed after Prime Minister Plenkovic paraded into 3 metres of snow in Delnice and said that nothing will bring anything, and that this government is going to make us so empty and that there is so that we have no government atall. Your appeals are being sent to nothing. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172106	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172107	Thank you very much. He would agree with you absolutely, neither the financial framework nor the regulation has been adopted, it is said that the regulation will pass into the law as a pirate agenda to the Minister and prime minister who visited the county and with their governments has been helping various messages to mountainous mountain areas, however, there was absolutely nothing, nor has there been a rule, the law is dead letter on paper, neither have these areas any help, nor entrepreneurs, nor, here is the example that I have now made one amendment that these areas have, that the country subsidises children and that part of the dispersal parents and those areas, however absolutely, it is only pi, a piar because of what we have become a little bit of us in this mandate, louder rurals so-called. According to Mr Jandrokovic, for parliamentary representatives who were not born here on asphalt, who received fewer votes here in Zagreb than I did in my village who has 300 people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172108	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Bulj, you were talking about this tax reform and the shortcomings of this tax reform, so I would say that, in fact, as much as it seemed demographically arranged, that it is anti-demographic especially in light of the fact that all statistical indicators show that people are starting a family all the time and later, that it's right around 30. And now the state kind of punishes them just when they turn 30, when they have to start a family, when they have to buy an apartment, so when they really need to get home and now the state is kind of banging them in the pocket even more so than before, and I think it's really bad, and it's supposed to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172110	The answer of the esteemed Representative Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172111	A colleague of Sladolev, the only measure is the job for young people, mostly I repeat in the areas and developed in the Republic of Croatia, it is a few cities and the only measure is to help entrepreneurs reduce taxes of course to young people, through certain measures to ensure kindergarten, all that is needed for school and especially a job without unloading, a reduction to 0 taxes, not a pamphlet of laws to what is mountainous mountain law and assisted areas without concrete measures, to 5 g. If you do not give tax 0 to entrepreneurs in the area of mountainous mountainous and undeveloped areas where people moved from, there will absolutely not be jobs, is the entrepreneur much more expensive, for example. ... in Dalmatinska Zagori il in Gorski Kotar only how much more expensive the energy is in the area is longer winter, longer the process, harder the whole process is more expensive, so I expect tax cuts [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] in mountain mountain areas. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172112	The next individual debate is the esteemed representative of Nikola Grumoja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172113	Thank you, Vice President. I think a colleague of Petrov's on behalf of the MOST Club presented everything regarding this so-called. The tax reforms where we don't actually have any tax discharge, in the replica of Minister Marić, I specifically explained that on the basis of the indicators, on the basis of what economic analysts say that the tax press has not been reduced at all, that this government, this commercial majority, will again cost Croatian citizens dearly, that it will take an additional 5 billion, new 5 billion kuna taxes, is interesting, and that few have noticed it after we here in the Assembly have said that this trade that happened between Prime Minister Plenkovic and Milan Bandic has led to the fact that the state buys a stake in the APIS, Minister Maric has, I don't know now which show it was, said that FINA will buy APIS, meaning FINA has become the largest investor in the Republic of Croatia, buys a part of Zagreb, shares in the Zagreb Stock, means who makes decisions at all in FINA-i to buy API, so that he has a political analysis and that he has been made by the government. This government cost Croatian citizens too much, and this morning, I was saying in my apartment that there is no rationalisation, that there is no increase in the number of jobs, not only in the entire state apparatus, but even in the Ministry of Administration that should be implemented rationalising and that Action Plan of Public Administration Reform that we have already left and provided 880 million kuna for 10 projects that are within this Action Plan, none of this is implemented. We have a so-called. Tax reform, we have shown that there are no real discharges and we have asked, this is especially what our President Petrov warned, that these 800,000 people who cannot get tax reliefs as a child's allowance or as part of a child's allowance should be provided a fixed amount. This is the only way, and the only demographic measure, and this could result in salaries or receipts growing to a large part of our population because in this way they do not benefit from this tax reform. We also believe that the VAT reduction was to be pursued, the government gave up on that promise, it was a promise that it would happen, but it is the same thing with most of what they promised they did not, of course, keep their mouths hungry. I remember once a colleague said here when counterpart Zekanovic came out of the ruling coalition then I asked a colleague there, so what's going to be now, he says he's silent that the feta tanja spread is thicker, better for them, should be better anointed and that's unfortunately so. We have day-to-day blackmails from HNS to Milan Bandic to all these unfortunately who supported this ruling majority from the SDP list and that is the fact. And they all hold hands in the air on Fridays. Says Davor Ivo Stier don't be afraid, don't be afraid, but every Friday a hand out of fear in the air along with Pupovec, with Vrdoljak, with everyone else, means everyone together in fear of a hand in the air every Friday. Yeah, it's even rhymed here. That's what I realized now, every Friday in the fear of a hand in the air, yeah. And I still wanted to say this, I see there's a colleague, Culey, who supported HVIRA in a motion to rescind the attorney general for rejecting these criminal charges against Pupovec for non-proceeding war crimes. So, colleague Culey, who raised his hand for Jelinic? On whose proposal was Jelinic elected Attorney General? So this ruling majority of HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic suggested Jelinić and you all blew up the arms for Jelinić, means together Pupovac, you, Stier, Vrdoljak and others.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172114	Comrade Grmoy, please, I have left you alone so far, we are now discussing amendments to the Law on Value Added Tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172115	That's right, and I want to send a message... and the speakers are talking at the same time. .../Speakers speak at the same time./... the truth is not easy to hear Vice President Reiner do not pollemize with me... /Speakers speak at the same time./... If you find it difficult to listen to the truth then call someone to replace you, someone who has a little stronger stomach, someone who can bear the truth call to come and replace you there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172116	Okay, I'm giving you a warning now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172117	Why are you giving me a warning?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172118	Because you are speaking outside the subject under Article 238.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172119	No, I'm talking about the fact that this is the commercial majority that is very expensive for Croatian construction, and because of that commercial majority, there is no greater tax charge, because every Friday together, you all have your hands in the air together. And that's a fact, and as much as it hurts you, I'm going to talk about it, Vice President Reiner, these are the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172120	Well, you won't. Only when it's a theme. And when the subject is the Tax Act, then you'll be talking about the Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172121	.... /The speakers speak at the same time./...why do you not allow me to talk about how you and Saucho with Milanka Opačić, Pupovac and Vrdoljak and Bandic chips together with Stier, Mira Kovac, Culej and others in fear of every Friday have hands in the air.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172122	I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172123	Why don't you let me Vice President Reiner tell you the truth and why the truth bothers you about this commercial majority that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172124	On the basis of Article 240(2), I now give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate on this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172125	All right, all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172126	Let's move on, we're going to the next individual debate. And excuse me, there can't be a replica when the word is taken away. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172127	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, State Secretary, Associates. I will certainly support this comprehensive and full tax reform, or the fourth round of comprehensive and overall tax reform. In that sense, I'm going to single out a few important elements that made me answer my word. Before all this morning and in the replica, I specifically singled out a change in income tax, which allows young people, primarily, to be fully exempt from income tax between 20 and 25 years of life, and between 25 and 30 years of life, 50% of the amount or obligation of income tax. And I said that maybe that doesn't sound as plastic as if that measure were to appear at an average salary, for example, and then on average, the net salary is calculated what is the income tax obligation, we get to the level of 664 kuna per month, so times 12 months, that's 8 thousand kuna, so times 5 years, that's 40 thousand kuna. And when it's still divided in half, since that's how much liberation in the other five years, that's all 60 thousand kunas in total. And I can't figure out how Mr. Greek calculated it to be 30,000 kunas when it's a very simple calculation based on how high it is. If we're talking about a young family then we can multiply it by 2 so you'll see that a young family is just this tax reform, only this change in income tax actually at a monthly level of around 1100, 1200 kunas have a tax discharge only based on amendments to the Income Tax Act. If we also mention if they are users and there are 9,000 of them in the past few years of young Croatian citizens or families participating, for example in the project of subsidising housing then it can be concluded that in the first 5, 6, 8, 10 years young Croatian citizens can enter into the purchase of the apartment in a way that the state 50% subsidized by the Law on subsidized housing loans and by the basis of this measure an additional 50%. Therefore, if this were to be done and it is very likely that, for example, one of the 4 000 young people who are currently in the process of buying an apartment under the Law on subsidized housing loans will be freed from the tax reform and by the basis of that law in the first 5 years of the entire payment of 1 kuna per household loan. In the meantime, if they have a child and two more years, then two children and four more years, enough is said about how far this measure is directed towards the demographic restoration of Croatia. So that's why I pointed out this particular measure. The second part I would like to point out is also the income tax where we have now changed the provision under which income tax is not paid in contrast to all other income tax obligations where it is paid to the place of residence of the taxpayer we are here and I commend it is an excellent measure, here we have now changed in a way that income tax will be paid not according to the place of residence but according to the location of the property that is rented and it is very important, a very important measure that will empower the budgets, primarily the units of local self-government on the islands or in the coast where the most of such self-government is, but are not the only ones, clearly across the coast, wherever such apartments are rented in Croatia, the income from that rent will be on the income of the local self-government unit on which the property is headed. The third thing I'd like to single out is to raise a personal deduction from 3800 to 4000, practically in this whole, whole, comprehensive tax reform, over these three years, by 80%, an increase in personal deduction. It's one very, very, very large amount, it can be bigger when the SDP says it should be 5 and I don't know why it shouldn't be 6 and 7. I mean, I don't know what that is, what kind of approach it is. We believe that this is sustainable, that this is designed because on the other hand we need to make sure that when we talk about decentralisation of the fiscal decentralisation of local self-government that one of the most important items in the income side of the budget of the local self-government units is income tax. And I would correct my colleague Petrov, he's not here, I couldn't replicate to him this morning not 800 thousand Croatian citizens who are taxpayers on income tax-free income tax so if we even increased personal deduction or reduced the rate to them, it would not apply to twice as much. So a million and 500, almost a million and 600 thousand Croatian citizens are not at all in income taxes. I don't know where Mr. Petrov's 800 came from, but he's twice as much of a "citizens" who aren't in income taxes. Not true, a million and 600 out of 2 million and 600 taxpayers based on income tax in Croatia are exempt from paying income tax. I would especially like to point out that every time I see this 4th stage of tax reform, I stress changes in profit tax. Today, with this proposal of a million euros, 7.5 million kuna is the basis for the annual income will determine whether the entrepreneur will pay the profit tax at a rate of 12 or 18%. It's almost amazing, at least to me... that 90%, 93% of all taxpayers in terms of profit tax will be participated according to a 12% rate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For me, this is an exceptional step towards tax evasion of taxpayers or employers operating in the Republic of Croatia that around until yesterday the rate established during the SDP was 20%, although it was before, but now we are dropping by twice that rate to 12% and in this relief, in this group, which will have a reduced profit tax rate of 93.9 out of 10 entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. And also Mr. Minister knows that during the very duration of the debate and preparation of this fourth round of tax reform, I was one of those who advocated that in Croatia the value added tax on the provision of services and food production and sweets was reduced to 13% for the simple reason that it seems to me that this rate makes Croatia competitive because so far we were among the countries primarily in the Mediterranean whose tourism is one of the priority economic activities at the top of taxation on this, to an additional value in terms of providing this service and production. So I'm commending, well that she came, she's encouraging, and I'm one of those who'd like to cut it down to these for, a commitment to spill in a certain way, to reduce the price of the service. But if the price of the end-product service is not reduced to me or it doesn't bother that the entrepreneur now has a higher amount to himself because it may invest in editing his space, raising the quality of the service. Therefore, we cannot only observe through the end price of the product whether this effect of the reduction in tax rate has been achieved successfully or through other aspects, this amount.../incomprehensible/... for themselves, reflect on the promotion of production, employment, etc. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172128	Thank you. We've got more replicas on your exhibit, so let's start with the first respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you spoke of certain tax redundancies specifically in the last part of your debate on those relating to profit tax. However, one of the great Croatian tax policy experts, Mr Zgombic, is the reception of several days, related to what you said next, quote: Before the beginning of the so-called In 2017, the companies abolished all tax benefits in the profit and income tax system. The 6.6 billion kunas of discharges that the government boasted at other items were compensated, and apparently exceeded. This is not what you are talking about in your debate, as you do not talk about the EUROTAT data based on data delivered from Croatia, so those delivered by the gentlemen sitting there by whom the share of the tax burden in GDP in Croatia has increased from 2015 to 2018 to 1.3%. Not a word about it in your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172130	Thank you. The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, I read this article by Mr Zgombić, and I also read this section on EUROSTAT. I am not a tax expert, what I know and I can very easily estimate it is that any rate in the income tax system, value added tax, profit tax, as the three basic taxes we always talk about here eat, has not been increased in the term of this government, but each one has been reduced. We forgot that we reduced the value added tax on energy that were and how stimulating in the Croatian economy and reduced the burden on Croatian citizens. Therefore, by reducing the rate, you know very well that the base is expanding and it affects into a larger number and larger amount of tax base. Has there been any unrecorded work on black I'm not going to talk about it? But we might as well think about it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172132	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172133	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic, in your debate, you ignore one fact, and that's next. In 2018, the Croatian Government took more taxes in proportion to GDP than it was in 2015. So EUROSTAT says that according to EUROSTAT, the share of taxes in GDP and the CNB in Croatia's GDP has increased by more than 20 billion kuna in 2018. In a simple dictionary, if the level of 2015 was revised 20 billion kunas less tax would be collected at the level of the year than it is today. So there's no speech on that side about any discharge. All these stories about us getting rid of this guy and the other guy are getting more taxes. 20 billion kuna so that your chiefs of the sector, directors, etc., who you're hiring can be fed And you're basically talking like you're doing savings in the ministries and the state budget. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172134	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172135	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Maras, in a similar replica just now, Djujic, elaborated his colleague Curaj, so now I have no reason to repeat this relationship and the correlation between the rate of tax, between tax rates and income, I would not, but what I failed to complete to Mr. Peđa Grbin. I can't argue how much the relationship in Croatia's GDP is, how undetected is the black or gray economy, but I'm sure not on the example of Croatia, but in the world, that the level of undeclared increases proportionally with the height of the rate. It's increasing, the tax base is expanding by reducing rates, it's certain, and that's how you reduce the tax write-off but you're increasing your income from exactly those same taxes because it affects a much larger segment, a much larger segment that wasn't covered by it until then.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172136	Thank you. The next is the replica of the esteemed representative of Angel Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172137	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, we're talking about the fourth round of tax discharge. The first tax discharge was in the direction of redistribution of the economy and home budgets. Secondly, to strengthen the budgets of local self-government units by, say, amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act. The budgets of all units of local self-government in the area of, say, the Varazdin County, from 4% to even 484%, or on average 59%. According to this, VAT is halved on food products and we are now talking about tax burdens for young people or young families. The mouth is full of young people, but when it comes to withdrawing certain measures, they don't have the courage. On the contrary, the current government, prime minister, has the courage and all these measures are in favour of young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172138	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172139	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, fellow Striker, I mentioned on several occasions the comprehensiveness, the integrity of tax reform. The full tax reform does not mean that it cannot be passed in the first, second, third, fourth circles. The overall tax reform implies that it observes the correlation between individual taxes and incomes, we reduced, or reduced income taxes, thereby reducing revenues to local self-government units but it was incomplete that we did not have on the other hand, passed the Law on the financing of local self-government where we then increased the participation of local self-government units in common taxes. If we hadn't left the balancing fund, so that's how I see the integrity of the tax reform, unlike the SDP, which increased one rate, the other reduced, completely to one another unrelated. During the year 3, they changed four times, changed the rates and access to these important and most important taxes. They're in office, I think 40 times changed or... They've changed [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 3 feet, those three most important taxes. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172140	The next replica is the respected representative of Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172141	Thank you. A colleague of Bačić's. I'll look back on the part where you talked about the income tax part. I think that you rulings should now clearly and responsibly acknowledge that this tax reform, especially as regards the tax discharge of young people and the increase of the non-taxable share of income from 3 800 to 4 000 kuna, is not a tax reform of the Government but rather a tax reform of local and regional (regional) self-government because the fact is that exactly the funds that are to be lost on the basis of this tax reform are going towards the burden of cities, municipalities and counties, and this government unfortunately did not provide for any compensation measure to cover these billions and 300 million kuna, except in that part for 2020. about... [[Intruder Reiner: Just a little...]] I wanted to say that, unfortunately, this government has not seen any compensatory measures, especially for that part of the increase in the non-taxable income from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] [[/Intruder: Let's be quiet that fellow Demetlika can say what he has to say. Here you go.]] So once again the load goes [[Intruder: Thank you.]] through this reform... [[Intruder: Answer...]] [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172142	Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You're wrong, my colleague Demetlik. For this part, which increases the personal deduction by 3800 to 4000 thousand kuna, there is an insurance compensation measure of about 500 million kuna to be deployed... Wait a minute, wait a minute. And what I expect from IDS, what I expect from IDS, to go up with both hands for this tax reform because right here it's talking about value added tax in the section relating to tourism from 15 to 13, where it decreases to 13%, we know what Istria means in Croatian tourism. Here is further changing income tax that goes in the favourite units of local self-government, for example in Istria, where very, very large apartments, buildings, cottages that rent Croatian citizens who do not live in Istria, and now the funds will go to Istria. That's why I expect you to vote on this thing the day after tomorrow when we decide and still support this tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172144	The next replica is the respected representative of Misic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172145	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić's. This government has stabilised the budget, which is a very important thing, freed it, actually allowed an untaxed share of up to 7,000, next year 12 grand, very important for entrepreneurs. Profit tax 12%, as important as 18%. Support for young workers, a very important thing for entrepreneurs and young people to do. Picking a bigger tax, that's exactly what the government did, stabilized, actually forced those who, who didn't pay to pay, which so far we know it wasn't true that 40 billion, don't laugh, any unpaid taxes in this country. And now that it's charged, it's a problem again. Therefore, those who do not know and who do not actually have and have never met with wages and separation from their own account do not know What the government did. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172146	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172147	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As an entrepreneur, you know very well how well, how many Croatian entrepreneurs with these 3 so far and this announced round of tax reform have actually contributed to discharge and business. And not only when we talk about tax reform, about changes in income tax on change, enabling, which we may not have mentioned so much today, to enable entrepreneurs to pay their employees up to 12,000 kuna per year on an annual basis, that, in an untaxable way, we helped the entrepreneur reward his worker, and that he did not, I say, at the monthly level, adopt such changes, at the monthly level, give 1,000 kuna to each employee by salary, without having to be taxed. So, I agree with you, you're an entrepreneur, I say I recognize, unlike others who don't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172148	The next debate will be the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172149	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start with something I didn't plan on, which is a reference to the debate of a respected colleague named Bačić who spoke before me. In one interesting, I don't know what to call it, but we're going to tell the answer to the replica concerning the gray economy that the more tax rates are, the more it automatically means that the larger share of the grey economy in each country is. Dear counterpart Bačić that this is how Denmark, Sweden or Finland have more tax rates than Croatia, especially when we talk about income and gain, would have a far greater share of the grey economy than Croatia has, and so do you and I know that this is not the case. So it'd be good to think about it sometime before you go out with these kind of statements. But to return to what I planned to say, and I will begin with actually one commendation, the Honorable Deputy Prime Minister, in June 2019, so a few months ago I referred you to a representative question related to the Income Tax Regulation and it concerned the way in which the tax is treated as a supplement for the cost of the worker's diet. And I am extremely pleased that you have adopted everything I have written in this debate, and I think that the solution that you have now offered, or the solution that is now in the regulation, that the workers who have been sent to work elsewhere and the workers who live in a particular area are well, and that is, of course, something to be commended. However, praises with these stops. Because for a start, what we have in front of us today and what we have in the past three years is neither comprehensive nor complete and least of all is reform. Tax reform would be if one government decided that it would completely change the structure of tax revenues in the Republic of Croatia and that, like some other countries, it would turn to some other sources and rely much more on other sources rather than primarily on consumption tax such as VAT. That would be reform. Whether it would be good or bad depends on the way it would be prepared depends on how it would be proposed but only then would it be reform. What you've been doing for the past four years including now are only the only adjustments in the existing tax system without any will, intent or desire to make that tax system in its scope with all its shortcomings that it has. And that's a fact to say, this is not a reform, this is just a correction. This is a transfer from one column to another to repair the system. And to ensure what is shown in the Eurostat report, which is that the state is getting enough money not to meet its needs, not to meet the needs of the people of the Republic of Croatia, not to raise the quality of public service that I would accept, but only for the sole purpose of maintaining in power, to buy those who are presumed to support and vote for this government. Because how else to interpret a proposal that I hope has given up and will be resolved in a much better way that, for example, soldiers who are in the Republic of Croatia's missions, such as Kabul or Kandahar, if they are wounded, will receive the status of Croatian defenders. These are respected colleagues and colleagues of the proposals that this government and this government are trying to buy voters. And they will be paid by all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and through this tax reform. I've talked enough about whether or not it's a tax discharge. This is the data, this is Eurostat data, this is the Eurostat table. And if you look at the table, you will see that in 2018 and 2017 only three EU Member States had a higher share of GDP tax. This means that only three EU Member States have increased the tax burden and tax revenues from the Republic of Croatia. And that's the truth of colleagues and colleagues, that's a fact. You can talk about unloading now. It's just that the difference is that you don't make this your income would be even bigger, but it's not really a discharge. What you're proposing is in many, many segments wrong. I also spoke last year when I showed you that income tax reform is exclusively and only intended for 1% of those who make the biggest incomes in the Republic of Croatia, 1%. This year you went a little wider and we're going to increase the base from 3800 to 4,000 kuna. Compliments and better than what was done last year, but is that reform? No reform would be to give up the measure you introduced last year from a neoliberal and unpreservative measure that contributes and only helps the richest in Croatian society and to introduce such a base of income tax that will allow all or at least a large part of those who are employed in the Republic of Croatia to receive and over 3800 to 5000 kuna to receive from 600 to 1000 kuna more per month. But you don't want that, your proposal goes the other way. You're going with the Youth Discharge. Dear colleagues and colleagues, high school usually ends in Croatia at the age of 18 or 19. With the Bologna study system, the study lasts almost 3+2 or 4+1 or 5 years. You come out of college when you're 24, and now you're talking about a measure that should help younger than 25, so those who are studying will be able to use this measure for a year, and I'm going to tell you one more thing, my first salary was $30.00 when I and like, as a graduate lawyer started working, I wouldn't feel this measure, and you know why, because I don't pay taxes. So, the college-educated lawyer who starts working as a trainee doesn't mean anything to you, and you know who it's going to mean to and who's going to be the happiest, so... Because due to their high incomes, they will be able to achieve this tax relief in full, the average citizens of the Republic of Croatia will benefit from this, neither young nor those older than them. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Allow me two, two concrete suggestions and please consider them, the first concerns hospitality, that I've already spoken about in the replica of my colleague, please reconsider, you've set out in a better direction, this in reality you shouldn't have touched if when you're already fixing it, don't just stay on the food, let this relief be made possible by serving drinks, of course non-alcoholic. And secondly, the special tax on coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, I absolutely support, the intensity and reasoning given in the law is good and completely, it says completely that in this way we must fight the monster that comes from highly sugared drinks. However, I must ask you to explain to me, if you look at the reasoning of the law relating to coffee and non-alcoholic beverages, you are very clearly saying that this is being introduced because drinks with high sugar content have a whole series or have a lot of empty calories and no nutritional values. However, because of this many drinks replace these sugars with sweeteners and they do not have these calories, and you have added sweeteners and sweeteners here, so I ask you that if it is possible to consider the second reading to throw out those with sweeteners and sweeteners in order to in the end line and give an alternative to the consumers of sugared drinks that with those that are more harmful to this one, I will not say healthy, I would not go that far, but I will say less harmful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172150	Thank you. We've got a few replicas. She's the first respected representative of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172151	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Comrade coat of arms, you've already started talking about reforms. Minister Maric certainly spent most of his time with all ministers representing a series of laws with us, which shows an effort to try to solve something, but he cannot. So, in order for tax reforms at all to be called reforms, there should be a number of other things and a number of other preconditions, first and foremost it would be good if, say, the Minister of Economy spent so much time with us representing laws, so I'm telling you in a transmitted sense, or I don't know, the minister who's in charge of demographics, so let's see this series of things, and then all of this together is the consequence of all this. So it's clear that this isn't about reform, that it's about cleaning up, that it's about creating some conditions in the best possible way that it is, but is he good enough that we all have to ask ourselves together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172152	The answer of the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172153	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, what I'm about to say is not as much of Mr. Vice President Maric as it goes to Prime Minister Plenkovic and what I'm about to say, let's be completely open and honest, not only does he refer to this government but many governments before him, but the mistakes of the predecessor cannot and must not justify your mistakes. The Republic of Croatia and the government headed by Andrej Plenkovic lacked the will to make any other reforms in any other sector, from economy to public administration, to show, call reform, tax policy as a reform of economic policy. The tax changes try to compensate for the complete lack of ideas in all other policy areas, especially economically, and that leads us to the results we have, and they are not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172154	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172155	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Grbin, this structure of tax revenues and the rate of growth of tax revenues relative to GDP gives us a clear picture of Croatia's economy and what is really the most dangerous in this whole story, GDP growth, although modest in the Republic of Croatia, it is at this moment suitable for the riching of smaller, smaller groups of people, so rich people have more and more with this GDP growth, but if we happen to have some crisis that was before, the truth now is that we are members of the EU, but trust us if the crisis occurs that will hit the poorest part of the population of the Republic, and it is the most dangerous thing to see from a picture of these tax revenues that you warn about. So, above all, reforms that would then only change the tax picture of the Republic of Croatia because the Republic of Croatia has no higher tax burden, higher burdens than other countries other than VAT, but the structure is quite poor.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172156	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172157	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Žagar, last week during the budget debate, a colleague of Boris Lalovac, who knows a lot about it since he was also Minister of Finance in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in a period of time, pointed out that the budget we adopt for 2020, and this tax reform can be difficult to look past him, no, there are no fuses in the event of a new crisis, and that is the problem. And when you talk about inequality, and just a set of measures that were proposed last year, which I was then intensely, now slightly less, they were talking about a tax burden that would feel 1% of the richest in the Republic of Croatia. To show you how narrow the tax reform was and Minister Maric didn't have a salary on which he could feel that tax reform That's the problem. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172158	The next replica of the respected representative Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172159	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleague Grbin, you said that this measure of tax disbursement of youth income was not affected because our youngsters, who regularly finish their studies, were about 24 years old. Life, I would disagree with you, you and yourself are aware that right now on the labour market we are lacking people in the real sector, in crafts interests, so in the units of the local stipend young people precisely for professional occupations, and I think that this measure is affected precisely because those young people who have committed themselves to the real sector, to craft interests, just like this, are motivated to have pay reliefs, especially in those first years of employment, and thus to make it easier for them to provide other things that are needed for family formation, to solve the housing issue easier, etc. As far as students are concerned, it seems to me that we have had some relief in working through a student service that is not being taken. when calculating for scholarships. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172160	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172161	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My message is basically the same this year as it was last year, don't target one segment, last year they were rich, this year they're young, so I still prefer this year's goal, try to make a measure that will be more comprehensive, raise the tax base for everyone, raise it from 3.800,00 to 5.00 kn, thus ensuring that the benefit of this, call tax reform, has both the 24 and the one from 28 and the one from 32. Because as we need, as we need jobs for the youngest who entered the labour market, so do we need for those with 35, 40, 50, etc. years, and they're losers of this, call tax reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172162	The next individual debate will be respected representatives of Grozdana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172163	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice President, respected ministers and Deputy Prime Minister with fellow Members, has already said a lot, I would only repeat and say what the objective of each intervention is, so we can call it tax reform or fiscal policy measures, but the goal is in any case to reduce the tax burden, to make the tax system predictable, simple, that whoever in that system was an employee or entrepreneur can also plan long-term and each unit of local self-government and, of course, that the tax system is more just and also socially sensitive. It is easy to criticise and say why it did not happen in one wave, at one time, etc., but it is these very stages that took place since 1.1.2017, so every following year, and here in this year and from 1.9.2019, they are actually saying that this system is very sensitive to each change and that in order to achieve the full effect it is necessary to plan in the way that it is designed, whether it be recognised or not, the total tax discharge that can be measured, measured nearly nine billion kunas and in all segments of the tax system. When we talk about value added tax, in this circle it is very important to say that, changes have happened, what many have warned about, which is that food and drink are really at a lower tax rate, and that is with those other tax rates that have been selectively delivered, it is now 13% and it should be very supportive because in this way really in relation to countries in the environment and those countries from which tourists come, we are actually approaching tax rates as it is with them and thus we can really be much more competitive. When we talk about income tax then we should say that in the term of this young man's non-taxable portion of the increase means from 2.600,00 kn to here now 4,000.00 kn, it's a huge leap and what's important to say is that all this is then reflected on units of local self-government that draw from it over and 60% of their income as which unit, but mainly it's the biggest, biggest income from the taxes they make. So, in that part too, it is very important how and how to project liberation because of course this government is all that it has taken up to 3.800,00 kn has made the same compensatory measures as it predicted in this range from 3,800,00 to 4,000,00 kn and here in this class alone it is therefore over 507 million kuna. The colleagues when they talk about what happened during this period then forget to say what can also be read from statistics, which is that the social gross product in the Republic of Croatia has increased here by over 50 billion kuna since 2014, that is what should be pointed out very much that all this was based on, therefore, on certain shifts in the overall creation of gross products. I would point out the same with income tax that, and I said that in the replica, which is very important, all these measures that are and interventions that have been made in the Income Tax Regulation, and then it is visible that from 2018 on, there have been huge shifts in terms of rewarding workers from employers, and in 2018 it is over one billion and 200,000,00 kn and only for that measure of work and the results of work and there has been a measure of 473 000 employees, meaning employees, and in 2019, when these measures have been extended, so it has also been applied to food costs, and then it has actually made it possible for this pausal or this justified credible documents, whether it is helping children's kindergarten, so all of these measures have been used so over 680 000 acquirers, so the employees, and it actually has a lot more value of the money that the money that has been offered to the customers in fact that they actually have a lot of value, and the money that the money that the money to pay, and the money, and the money in fact, and the money that the money that the money that the money, and the money, and the money that the money, and the money that the money that the money. Therefore, this is not to be ignored because interventions thus significantly raised the level of normal income from, from the income basket, a level which was then allowed to achieve a much better quality of life, but of course that the higher income from value added tax was achieved at that time. All these other interventions that occurred in these laws, whether in fiscalization, or in the OPZ, so in fiscalization, we all noticed the problems that were happening with so-called. offers that were not fiscalized and which in this way actually allowed a part of the traffic to really not appear. What is still very good, and what has been recognised, and these are excise duties that so far have been consumed only by freight transport operators, so truck freight carriers, now this right can be consumed by those carriers who use the train commercial transport of goods and passengers, as well as those to whom it is, they have the exemption from paying excise duty on electricity. In fact, it is possible to channel as much transport across our territory as possible and that transporters benefit better and better from it, and thus we actually allow our corridor, which is very important between the east and the west, to be greater. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172164	We've got one replica of the esteemed Velligay representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172165	Here, thank you, Vice President. Well, here's colleague Peric as a person who has a lot of experience actually in the work of the local self-government unit, you've done a lot of, in fact, in the debate you've partly touched and these changes in the fact that the fact is going to harm the units of local self-government, it's always so, somewhere you take, in fact, to give someone and it's good that we have compensations that are scheduled for this year, but if not, I would ask you for your opinion and perhaps one attitude that you will have, and you have shown it on the board, I have to say about what Minister Maric said today that there will be no compensation for the young people's taxes, and unless there is indeed a single blow to the income of the local self-government unit in 2021. Then I guess we should also talk about what the local budget expects. self-government 2021. [[Intruder: Next...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172166	...responsible representatives of Grodana Peric will be the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172167	Well, yeah, I said, and the point is that it's very important in all of this is how we project and help young people, and at the same time not to reduce income to local self-government units. This is how it is now proposed, and that the return is done at the end of the year, which is in 2021, in fact, in one way enables units to prepare for it, and I hold that the units of local self-government will, given that there has been an increase in income tax revenues, that they will then work and increase the number of employees, and thus achieve much higher income from income tax, and then in 2021, that impact may be less than some projections have started.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172168	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172169	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected secretary of state with associates, colleagues and colleagues, so here we have a fourth package of tax laws that further relieves our citizens, entrepreneurs, craftsmen, the economy for 2.3 billion kuna and together with the previous three packages is nearly nine billion kuna. It's hard for me to understand when someone says it's against this one that this isn't good. It was nice to hear the opposition, some opposition MPs who said they couldn't say that nothing had been done. Thinking about which category of citizens to place a special accent, what to discuss today, it was difficult to decide whether to talk about the discharge of craftsmen, economies, tourist workers, settlements, municipalities or cities by the sea, our young, young families because there is hardly a category that will not feel this fourth package of tax reform or discharge after the adoption of these laws. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County and as I am happy to say that I do not have a person in our area who does not live on tourism and tourism, especially the cheerful provisions relating to this activity, and that the proposals have also come from the HDZ Club, or we have often been able to make comments and suggestions, and here with this package of laws there will also be such changes, namely covering the application rate of 13%, a reduction from 25% to 13% will finally be obtained and will be obtained and applied also to preparing and serving meals and treats in and out of catering facilities, so that, thus, the state will deny VAT worth 900 million kuna. In addition to all that is said and related to all other craftsmen, it means rewarding employees who have also become a new non-taxable reception, as well as the accommodation and nutrition of employees who we know were missing during the tourist season, are also additional, plus which will of course use and use our catering and tourist staff and which will certainly affect better, even better results in the coming seasons. So far, this government has made it clear that tourism and tourism contributions are almost a fifth of Croatia's GDP, that tourism contributes to the recognizability of the Republic of Croatia and so far we can say that it is for these 3rd years. The Croatian Tourism Government has done a lot, so we record significant increases in the number of nights of 16%, that the number of tourist arrivals has increased by 20% and revenues by 17%, along with all these amendments and amendments to the law, these results will be better expected. Tourist cities and municipalities have had many objections so far, as the Income Tax Act determined that income tax belonged to those cities and municipalities where the tenant has a residence. According to these changes and additions to these injustices, long-term injustice is corrected, namely the resources of those settlements, cities and municipalities wherever the room or apartment is located, and revenues go to other centres, for example. in our Sibenik-Knin County, we can say that perhaps the highest percentage of private accommodation is owned by those who do not stay in the area. In my Vodice, over 60% of the tenants who are not, have no residence in the Vodice area, and thus we were denied or income of nearly 3 million kuna belongs to some other municipalities and cities, and these changes of laws will be the same for us. The town of Sibenik has 64% private accommodation, which is not owned by Sibenik, while e.g. Dubrovnik 36%, Zadar 34%, Split 30%, but there is almost no coastal city and municipalities that have tenants in or around 90% owned by their citizens, citizens who have a place in their territory. Also tax discharges relating to young people up to 30 g. The age is commendable and it is also a demographic, social and economic measure, and we know that as far as demographic revitalisation is concerned, we must be aware that the Croatian population is getting older and that we are facing more and more negative phenomena of this process. However, the Croatian government is taking significant steps and we can say that in the previous period there has been a change in income price for the achievement of child allowances and more than 500 kindergartens and numbers have been significantly better, in 2018 there were 417 children born more than before, the number of deaths has been reduced, the number of housing issues has been resolved, with the help of these measures more than 5300 families have secured their home and is glad that in those families over 850 children were born, we were happy to read recently that in the Dalmatian islands more and more inhabitants are coming to demographic turn, here says Solta from the last years, from 1800 to 2200, in Vis there are 20 families more, the Long Island records an increase of 190 locals, in Croatia last year 26 000 Croats returned to Croatia, so together with these measures we expect even better results and even better statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172170	Thank you, dear colleague, for moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Dragica Vranjš, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172171	I thank the Vice President, the respected representatives of the finance ministry today about this tax reform, otherwise every year because it is my committee in which I act I speak more in detail, but this year I will refer to one of the nine laws that are changing in this tax reform, which refers to income tax. Namely, the changes and additions to income tax particularly in that first article are long-awaited changes from the area of sub-bibics that we have been discussing for a long time in our coordinations in this area, meaning in the area of Brela, Baska Voda, Tučepi, Makarska, Graca, Podgora, and as we can see and hear it was still a problem in other areas of Beautiful Ours. Last year, when income tax revenue was flat-rate, when it was passed down to the unit of local self-government, the problem was even more obvious because by determining the units of local self-government income tax on the income of the pausalist, which belongs to other municipalities and cities if their residence or residence in other municipalities and cities, and the property itself is located in the area of the income-determining person, it has indeed shown that this and the principle of belonging to the income tax itself, and it is very important that, from the very passing of the proposals, the submission of the proposal of that law to the Assembly until some period when the debate on the very owners was registered, but if we remember even better, for the time when we passed the package of tourism laws, from the very passing of the proposal, to some period when the law was submitted to the Parliament, where the debate on the very laws, and the number of the soars in the period, was possible. In particular, in the municipality from which the income or flat-rate owners who do not have residence and residence in the Baška Voda municipality is about 25%, thus the income tax of our municipality is increased by a third and what is crucial means Art. 1. that changed that income tax we have long worked on through the Committee on Tourism and it was not easy last year when we presented this problem once again on the Committee on Tourism the representatives of the Ministry of Finance on the Committee of Finance and when you return home and say that although you are now determining income tax, but namely from a flat-rate contribution means unpopular in your area, it was, of course, to raise income tax, but that one large part, one third of your income that is generated here from tourists who come here, who use that infrastructure, which use that accommodation, the accommodation organisation, which rents those apartments, means income from them at all, does not belong to you and one third of what you determine will not continue to belong to you, it was not easy to communicate with our employees of the tourist community, the community throughout the sub-biological community and the whole of Split-Dalmatia County and what is important and what is dear to me already means the first article in the 4th century. 57. The income tax law that truly this income belongs to the units of local self-government, or it is the exception that it belongs to, the belongings of income tax to look at means not residence or residence, but the place where the property is located, or the accommodation unit, I do not want to owe to the rest of the tax reform because the colleagues said it, but we can only imagine here and when we look at the Sibenik-Knin County, the colleague also mentioned Vodice, when 60% of the renters who pay the flat tax on income are not at all compared to the residence or accommodation in that area, how much this affects development and how unfortunate it is, and especially in these areas where tourist numbers are huge and where a small municipality can compare with the nights of the City of Zagreb, especially that we do not talk about the parachalists, so that we definitely thank you, and this will certainly affect when you come to visit us in the area where we come from. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172172	Thank you. Next debate, dear colleague Domagoj Mikulić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172173	I thank you, dear Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Minister Maric with his associates, colleagues and colleagues, we are entering the fourth round of tax reform that envisions the disbursement of the 2.4 billion kuna, with it the total tax discharge that the current government of the Republic of Croatia has carried out in all four rounds will amount to nearly 9 billion kuna. Given the large number of laws and amendments, and a united debate on laws, I will refer to several segments, mainly those relating to our entrepreneurs, I am glad that the good news for our entrepreneurs is that by adopting the Tax Tax Act, the application of the tax rate will be extended to 12% of all taxpayers who have achieved a total income of 7.5 million kuna, that is growth with today's 3 million kuna, and that means that 93%, or an additional 10 000 entrepreneurs, will pay a income tax of 12%. The entrepreneurs, when this proposal is adopted, as a cost, will recognise both the costs they have for the accommodation and the nutrition of employees, the payment of kindergartens for the children of employees, but also the separation for the supplementary and health insurance of their employees, I think it is a significant impulse for a large part of our entrepreneurs. What is truly commendable, and it has come upon really great reactions from our guests is a reduction of 13% for preparing and serving food and sweets in, but what is most important and outside of the catering facilities, we must all be aware together that we in the Republic have a strong and important branch of tourism, and in this way we help our hosts invest precisely in their facilities, in workers, in groceries and in general in our service and for further development and investment, because this would ultimately have a major impact on the tourism offer of the Republic, and only on the research information 30% of the tourists in the Republic are coming just motivated by our quality and diverse enogastro offer. As a young person, of course, I'm glad to see that youngsters are being introduced by the age of 30. In a way to keep young people up to the age of 25. Life reduces income tax by 100% and those from 26 to 30. The tax liability will be reduced by 50% to taxable income from non-permanent work of up to 360.000,00 kn. In this way, I am sure that by increasing the net wage, we contribute to stopping departures and the trend of leaving young people and highly educated persons, this refers to those 260 000 young people to 30 g. who are employed and in this way will have higher incomes, this refers to reducing the departure of persons, the most of which is up to, between 25 and 29 years of age, and last year they were abandoned by 5000 of our Republic, this applies to all those who are increasingly difficult to decide to leave their parents and their loneliness, and they do so on average only when they are 32 years old. creating among other things a great cost to your parents. Today, young people are becoming increasingly difficult to deal with the challenges of time, with the finding of suitable employment, and they are becoming increasingly difficult to buy real estate and other problems, so this direct increase in their income is definitely a good step and signal to young people. The only thing I don't understand in this whole story that is the goal of all those who consider this measure negative is that they are constantly, listening and full of their mouths to all young people, preventing them from leaving, and then when the government gives this particular measure that will help our young and craftsmen and farmers, scientists, they do not care. I really consider this an excellent move, my opinion shared by many many young people, this is indeed an excellent step towards improving the conditions and standards of a young man, so I am glad that you ministers and this government are insisting on this demographic and social scale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172174	Thank you. Dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172175	Thank you, Vice President, respected ministers with associates, now that we're looking at the whole debate and everything our colleagues here have been saying and commending normal and cuddly, they've had other visions, I think the main, main motto and the main story has been all day long, and that's just an increase in wages and when we look at the overall tax reform, all four of these circles. In all four steps, and when we look at it, it's the last 3 years. More than 100,000 new jobs have been opened in the Republic of Croatia, and only in active employment policies have been spent more than 6.5 billion kunas in this next period, that it has given a lot of work through the incentive for self-employment and through trainees and trainees, professional training, etc., we have come to this issue, and this is an adequate salary for a certain type of job and the increase of the same, so that this fourth round of tax reform when the government is always asking how it will increase wages, how it will go, whether the salaries are adequate, I think this is the only answer that the Ministry of Finance can make, and this is precisely the elimination of the deficit tax on income for under 25. and a reduction of 50% of the same tax per person between 26 and 30 years, when we count only the increase in the personal deduction of 4,000.00 kn from 3.800,00, it is a direct incentive and direct inflow of income and an increase in the net salary that employers must be clear about how and in which direction they definitely go further and I think that beyond that, and that moreover, the Government can definitely not change any legislative proposal or any regulation or certain coefficients can not contribute much, more than this and this is one clear demographic measure that would stop the outflow of all young people who may still be abroad today, or are thinking that maybe happiness or higher pay or better living standards would provide a vanca, especially those highly educated people we talk about regularly in this high home. We must note that the average net salary has increased and increased by €846.00 and that there are still certain deductions that employers are also related to health insurance, giving young people an opportunity not only for young people, but also for all to increase the net, net wages themselves. We must stress and think that there are no more grants, no more awards for excellent students and students, no more grants paid out of the budget, no more receipts for the EU budget, and no more receipts for textbooks, work notes, notebooks and other education programmes, especially unemployed persons, which, when we look at scholarships, and the student work we discussed last year in the third round of tax reform, were very burdensome for households, and that parents and students were considering which awards they accepted, just so that they would not lose the status of a abstentionary member or that they would not give God a tax tomorrow. As for the VAT Act itself, we don't have much time here, but we should actually look at this fourth round of tax reform, look at all four steps, not only to stick to what will come into effect 1.1.2020. We should also mention a reduction in VAT rates of 5% on medicines, a reduction in VAT rates and electricity. In particular, emphasize this VAT reduction to 13% for fresh meat and fish and this continuation of the reduction to 13% for serving dishes and sweets. We know that these 13% are related to fresh meat and fish, I don't think the tax has shown any excessively good results in the sense that our caterers haven't so much jumped into the price reduction of certain goods and services, but now here's when we put a 13% reduction into serving food and sweets we'll finally see what the results will bring, but I think about us from the coastal counties that are related to tourism and how it will be a significant incentive and how we will follow this particular development, along with changes in income tax for renters, this lump sum that some colleagues have mentioned simply returned that principle of justice to the tax system and are just returning that money to where it is being realized, which is in units of local and regional self-government where it is located, i.e. where they're alone, where they're all real estate locations. We mentioned something through the replicas in the opening part and questions of the Minister about these excise duties and a special car tax, we are not going to open it now, but I believe in the precedent next year that the minister will make an effort to put a little bit of this commission around the directive and be the first, first, green economy to abolish most of the giving, and also tomorrow VAT on electric cars, but all in all these last 3 years, 9 billion kunas of dispensing citizens and entrepreneurs a great commendation to the minister for the systematicity and here what is with us and just so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172176	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague of the Sun's Head, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172177	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, you spoke of discharge, I would just like to remind you that since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, this was the first government that, when it entered its term of office, brought exactly the comprehensive tax reform as the first important step towards change in the Republic of Croatia. However, I will look back at something else, which is the part of which you have spoken about young people, about discharge, and I will remind all those who question this measure that currently according to the State Statistics Office 121,000 young people working in the Republic of Croatia is under 25 years old. So this is once again a strong demographic measure, and all the aids that will be granted on behalf of this measure are in the table, so I would like my colleagues to study it closely. Examples for your county 9.5 million kuna or for my Međimurska 2 million 600 thousand kuna. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172178	Answer to the line, dear colleague Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172179	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Glavak, you have well noted that we are all looking at the exclusively percentage of highly educated young people, but this is also what a great measure for professional professions. It's a good thing you pointed out that this was the first government to make such a huge comprehensive tax enterprise. I have to point out, and we have to go back a few years, and that's the program that we actually went to the election, especially this category of junior MPs, which is Choose a better future. Just 1.1.2020, with this fourth round of tax reform, the programme on which Minister Maric and a few other ministers worked at the time, is exactly what I think the last item that will be, which is promised in this programme Choose a better future and is related to the work and employment of young people. This is the last item, and I think from that program, this programme is now comprehensively achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172180	Thank you. Let's move on to the next debate, dear colleague Marko Weldergay, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172181	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates, here's as much as any tax reform of course has its own good and bad side. What I would have had for a start would have one remark, according to me and the illogicalness, which is what we are actually discussing these laws and we will adopt them after we adopt the state budget. And they're on the one hand, they're actually going to be the product of some things that we're going to adopt first in the state budget itself. It is, however, proof that this measure is not so carefully prepared as you and the ministers assured us, that it was more of a prime minister who actually assured us when this presentation of the state budget was, but fine. I will, of course, look back, given that I am speaking here from the aspect of the local self-government of these changes in, changes in income tax, I will say that essentially they show that we are going, once again actually show one direction that you have set, which is naturally legitimate, politically for you, which is that we are going towards abandoning one progressive income tax, which I am going to say world-class cannot accept because income taxation today is reduced almost to, almost at one rate. So basically one abolished, the other one is set to one too high limit, and of that you know in the end that they themselves profit most from those who have the highest wages. Income tax, I will say pro-forma is left to local and regional self-government, but there remains a regular instrument of state policy implementation, and you do not think at all that as a compensation you actually give to local self-government a certain part of other state tax revenues such as the value added tax. So, the result of all of this is that income tax today in Croatia will say that it represents one, represents one exception, and not making it from the aspect of local self-government cannot possibly be good and we need a new model of funding for local, local self-government. So, with the latest changes in the income tax system, we set the threshold for taxing income at the rate of 36 at 30,000 kuna per month, so at this rate we tax only a fraction of income less than 2% of employment in the Republic of Croatia. So we can practically conclude that today's work in Croatia is being taxed at a rate of 24% or not. Here, now and the new proposed tax reform, so you're proposing to abolish the income tax for employees up to the age of 25, so there's a 100% relief, and by 30 percent, you're also raising the amount of personal deduction from 3800 to 4000 kuna, and there's the compensation foreseen in the state budget, and there's no problem in commending it, but what's actually devastating in terms of local self-government is that there's no compensation for young people in the projections that you've provided in the 2021 budget, meaning in the projections presented in the 2020 budget, so no compensation is foreseen for 2021. Of course that can change, of course, that you've often changed some of your opinions, sometimes a little and your boss, Prime Minister Plenkovic, has leaned on it, so you've given up on that real estate tax that you've been very firmly defending, but normally that some of your announcements, that one of your claims that all of us in local self-government units are actually worrying. I'm going to say that, of course, like all of us, I have nothing against these measures because it would be really crazy to be against it, against an increase in wages for young people, but when we bury a little under the surface of that whole measure, we actually see what I said at the beginning that the measure actually introduced quite ad hoc, without one broad public debate, first, it challenges and certain negative reactions. You mentioned yourself before that there were good and bad things and that there was one negative repercussion. So it's disputed from the aspect of the article. 51. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which states that everyone is obliged to participate in the settlement of public costs in accordance with their economic opportunities and that the tax system is based on the principles of equality and justice. So some European countries have introduced this measure as far as I know it, in fact only Poland and perhaps it is from their constitutional and legal point of view and right, but here something which is certainly very, very doubtful. The additional problem I'm going to say here is that the employer simply offers the young person a contract on working with a smaller gross salary and which will then lead to the same net amount as the young employees in this company now had. This can happen very easily in the private sector, in the state and public we are aware that of course it will not happen, I will say that it does not need to judge employers only now, because this measure is the fact that it will create certain problems especially in manufacturing companies and I come from the end of Croatia and yet the production of good work has survived and then you have some two to three categories of wages and indeed it is possible that the situation mentioned in the public sector, namely that a young person at the beginning of his working life has a higher salary than his superior. You know what this can actually create in this single production process and what repercusions it can have in view of the problems that exist today and we have in the north already a problem of labour draining towards the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia. So people who remain living in the Republic of Slovenia, however, migrate daily and find their jobs for better wages in Slovenia. One more thing I would like to draw attention to but well, we are listening to today's debate, I can also appreciate that it was originally said and still stands in the e-consumption that the aim is actually to reduce the tax obligation for young people to feel the effect immediately when paying their first net salary. Now the fact is that young people will feel these effects only in a little less than 2 years, so somewhere in the summer of 2021, so I say if I mentioned before in the replica of my colleague, if it was already responsible to me that it means 2021, and we'll see what happens then and there's something that young people will be waiting for a long time, it's hard to talk about and appreciate that it's one of the great and genius measures, the measure of demographic policy. Here, these are some simple doubts that exist here, the fact, you can agree or not, the fact is that they are there and that they are actually something that is mentioned through e-consultation, something that I have received observations from the field, but if it goes in this direction, I will welcome this decision but of course I will ask for compensation for local self-government units, and that in this way all local self-government units are compensated in a 100% reduction amount which will in 2021 and in the coming years arise in relation to 2019 because the fact is that the units of local self-government are, in fact, with these compensations in some way, make it impossible for them to grow and that they will not benefit from growth, the colleague mentioned earlier, are working on that you have greater employment, and what in those local units of unemployment are actually almost no? I come from one of those local units where unemployment has fallen to 70 people. Let's say in early 2014, it was over 500, so it didn't fall, it actually increased employment from 1050 to 1600 people today. Here I think it would be fair, to be fair, I don't need to explain to you here how important local self-government is especially for people in smaller environments, from maintaining municipal infrastructure, roads, public lighting, cemetery etc., here we are working throughout Croatia thanks to EU-wide kindergarten funds and today but not gardening unless local self-government has the money to maintain them, to hire aunts in them, followed by a new EU accounting period where, according to all the announcements, we will have a larger share of co-financing and all these are arguments which require a strong local self-government or to secure existing funding or to go to something new, on territorial reshuffle, to a brand-new model of funding units of local self-government, but this is a debate on another topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172182	Thank you. We have replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172183	Thank you, Vice President. You've expressed a few views that I disagree with, especially this for adoption. the proposal for a budget by the Government and after that, tax reform. I mean, if you have a clear vision, I don't know if you've already proposed a budget to your council in your city, but here's the responsibility of the government to propose a budget to us here in the High House in time. And normally if you have a stable majority, then you don't even have a problem with a tax reform. You said there was an increase in employment in your city, and I congratulate you on that, but I believe you have to give the government a little recognition and your units of local self-government together plus the government, plus these measures have led to increased employability. And as far as these compensatory measures are concerned, I would like you to first say how much you received from the return on income tax that the government left to local self-government units, and then just asked for these compensatory measures, and also to adopt that the minister said he had already secured 500 and a few million kunas for these compensatory measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172184	Thank you. Come in, Mr. Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172185	Thank you. I don't know if I'll be able to answer all the questions, considering there were a lot of them. Here's to thank you first for your congratulations, but you don't have to congratulate me on the business of the farmers in the area of the town of Pregrada, in the area of Krapina-Zagorje County thanks to whose investments have actually been achieved and thanks to whose investments Krapina-Zagorje County first came out of the crisis and first showed positive economic indicators. As far as the local budget is concerned, we all know what the deadlines are like and these deadlines need to be met. I find it very difficult to mention these local budgets sometimes, and I also trust colleagues who are local self-government, and actually work and stick to those deadlines. Because in Croatia, the Law on the financing of local self-government in the last 25 years, I think it's been changed 20 times, so almost every year and a half. Most of these changes were at the end of the year, usually 11 or 12 months, so now you stick to the legal rules when your country changes the rules that should budget you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172186	Thank you. Next replica, respected counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172187	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Vesligaj, I know it is difficult for you from the SDP to acknowledge the good work of the Ministry of Finance with all three or four rounds of tax reform, but your presence of Mr Matjana and Sabine Vosovac tells us that you are giving full support to this tax reform. What I didn't understand you said was that progressive taxation of income is a secular issue. So I don't understand whether it's some kind of confiscation tax or not, maybe it was a mistake and I don't know what you were specifically thinking. But you can't ignore the fact that in the third tax round given your original income in your municipality, your municipality received approximately 8.3 million kuna, and now through compensatory measures, given the increase in personal deduction from 3,800 to 4,000 kuna from compensation measures, therefore publicly, precisely, transparently not only you but also all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172188	I thank my colleague Babic. Come in, Mr. Vesligai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172189	Thank you very much. First, to correct you, it's not the community. It's the city. I was before and in the replica of Minister Maric when he said we were not against that new law on the financing of units of local self-government and I can say it again. Yeah, she got partly thanks to it, but she got the most of it anyway... the employment of these 500 new people who got hired thanks to the investments of businessmen and entrepreneurs. So, first of all, thanks to that. And he should be humbled when public incomes are shared, and not speak we have given you. It's public income. Don't give me a clue about it. And the second thing, so the flat tax is part of some kind of neoliberal policy, a flat tax has been created as far as I know in America in the 1980s, has spread to most of the Eastern European countries, and it goes for the rich to pay less taxes. And that's why I said it was a world-class issue, and you're obviously going that way with your tax reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172190	Thank you. Dear colleagues from HDZ, counterpart Šipic, colleague Bacic, colleague Šuker, I would ask you nicely that if you need to discuss leaving the plenary hall and settle it outside, and do not disturb your colleagues while they are arguing. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Vesligaj. I think we should commend every measure of dispensation for young people, but I think that's where the problem sets out for youth. Here you and I are about the same year somehow I still think we're young, and here the Ministry of Finance officially said that we're not young anymore, setting the criteria for 30 years. And now my question to you, how do you think about actually one measure that should be demographic is that someone after 30 years is no longer young? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172192	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Vesligai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172193	Thank you. Well, I don't know, by law, as far as I know, it's probably been the Ministry of Finance that's been going on about it for up to 29 years. So we have in the units local self-government formed advice of young people and can be selected persons up to about 20 or 30 years, so it's probably legal. And now we could talk about what the definition of youth is. But here I'm gonna say I'm not against that measure again I'm gonna do it again, obviously it wasn't clear to someone in this whole debate, but I'm not for you to give, and on the other hand you're taking. What's gonna happen? Look, if there's less income in the local self-government unit, so what, it's going to go up the cut and there's going to be higher kindergarten prices, higher utility prices. So who's paying for all these givings? Well, they're paid for again by the young. So what? We're spilling from the hollow to empty at the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172194	I thank my colleague Veligai. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172195	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, so this one, after a full day's debate on this set of tax laws, is hard to say something new... Or it's hard to say something smart and new. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm going to focus this on one segment, it's on local self-government or on the repercussion that these laws will have on top of it. Therefore, even in the second round of tax reform, the Law on the financing of local self-government units became the original income tax exclusively of local self-government units, counties, municipalities and cities. All the more, therefore, further reforms that went in terms of discharge, have just focused on that part of the tax or income tax, so we can make it very clear that again by who knows which time the old rule that the discharge goes on is not central but local, local states. When we talk about this Law on the financing of units of local self-government, which was adopted in the second round of tax reforms, it should be said that, that a large number of units of local self-government, especially cities, have received quite a share of new funds, but some have lost it, especially those units of local self-government, which are the poorest ones in mountainous mountainous areas, islands and those in areas of special state concern. Namely, they had a share in the income tax of 80 and 88%, respectively, by this new law, so they lost almost 30%, 30% in income tax. However, the government compensated this in a way that, in 2018, 2019 and 2020, this difference would be compensated in the 100% part, that already, while in 2021 it would be 60, 60% of income and 2022. 30%, this is a somewhat more stringent measure because, in such a longer annual period, the unit of local self-government can also programme more seriously or plan and plan its budget, however, this new compensation measure of 507 million kuna, which has been adopted in view of this fourth round of tax reforms, is planned exclusively for 2020. and it's not in projections for 2021 and for next year. The Ministry, but also a sound financial mind expects us to conservatively plan incomes and plan expenditures, but it's very difficult when you, when you fall asleep under one rule, wake up with one law, and then wake up with a whole new law. Local self-government units are encouraged, this is good, to participate in EU funds competitions, to build kindergartens, to build homes of culture, firehouses, roads, so as to withdraw EU funds, and to make this as much money go into infrastructure as possible. However, in this way, units of local self-government are deprived of their financial capacity to successfully, successfully and successfully implement these projects. So I will say something that may sound almost heretic to my colleagues, Commissioners and mayors, which is that it might be better if it were 507 million kunas, because it is only one year, and if we exclude the City of Zagreb, no unit of local self-government will get more than one million kuna, it might be better if that money was invested in a fund that would co-finance EU funds' programmes and projects to local self-government units, especially when we are aware that in the new programming period co-financing, therefore our personal part, would be much greater than it is in this programming period. Today there has been a lot of talk about this measure, therefore, of young people's non-taxation, representing it as a demographic measure, it's in principle okay. However, this one in my view would be much more effective if these funds had remained to the units of local self-government because demographic tools are not equal in Zagreb and Karlovac, as they are not equal in Babina Greda or what I know somewhere in St. Petra in the forest, so local self-government units have specific problems, depending on whether they are located in the rural area, whether they are located in the mountainous mountainous area, whether they are small units of local self-government, whether they are units focused on tourism or on crafts and on the economy, whether in these municipalities and cities there is a large outflow of the population or something smaller, so it is specific and it would be much more effective if demographicism or if the tools for demographic measures had the units themselves. And finally, to conclude, therefore, a better, more efficient, overly local self-government cannot be reformed exclusively by tax laws, it is necessary to make a full reform of local self-government that includes a lot of things, so not only a way of financing but perhaps a territorial reshuffle, to finally ask myself, to gather courage, whether we need counties, such as counties, in this way this is just scratching by, by, surface and this is not, this is not, this is not a set of reform laws, and in this way we will not make the long-term unit of local self-government more efficient than we do here to refer to this part of the cost of diesel fuel, as these excises unfortunately Croatian railways will not become a competitive company because, in order to become a competitive company, we need much more effective reforms in this company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172196	Thank you. Replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172197	Thank you very much. As soon as I can, Mr. Matteljan, a colleague of Mateo's, is an interesting suggestion regarding this compensation fund, perhaps you could think about it, I think it's a pretty good idea. However, this second part when you talk about young people, or this part about reducing taxes from 100% to 25. And 50 to 30 years, you don't have any mechanism as a unit of local self-government, in this case, state up to 25. disowns some 500 million kunas and up to 30, 800 million kunas in favour of these young people. So, it's cca 1.3 billion kuna, it's not a meaningless amount for young people, so for all those who are here today, Bačić was saying how much that actually means for one average salary in the Republic of Croatia about 600 kuna at the monthly level, or about 8,000 kuna at the annual level. So as a unit of local self-government, you don't have a mechanism so you can do it, and the state has it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172198	Thank you. This is my colleague Mattelian's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172199	If local self-government, i.e. if the municipality or city had enough financial resources, they would also have tools for demographic measures in their community. And I say once again the same demographic measure in Zagreb or in Babina Greda, so here because they are not equal problems. Of course, if there are no mechanisms that we do local demographic measures, so why are we serving as a community, because that's exactly the question we have to ask ourselves. Are we even as meaningful to something if we can't manage demographics in our area as much as you do, as you say, we don't have the tools for that. We're about to pass such laws to give us these capacities, but we should also be given financial resources, because we're the only ones who know and who can manage micro, so to speak at micro locations of demographic measures, we locals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172200	I would like to thank my colleague Matjana for his reply. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Damjan Vucelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172201	Dear colleagues and colleagues, chairman, an empty chair from ministers and co-workers, estimated that Croatia loses 26 billion kuna annually from tax evasion. And why is it so in a country that's third on a scale of countries with the highest taxes in the world? Well, because at the top, it was decided that we would be one poor colony, where our Quislin governments and politicians sold us for their own wealth, political progress and power. Taxes are the forced income of the state, and citizens, craftsmen, OPGs, owners of small companies are literally drained, taken by feet, shaken until they are thrown out of their pockets and the last coin. As long as they don't end up on the road and until they don't have the means to live until they've fallen into life's debt, until they're in hell, they're in hell, they're blocked, they're in dereliction, or they're simply leaving this country. You HDZs encourage a gray economy and no honest entrepreneur can survive in this country unless it remains fair. Well, everyone's cheating on your country on taxes, and that's your fault. You squeeze them so much they don't have a choice, they have to cheat or they'll close their shop. By cutting taxes, you will charge not only entrepreneurs, you will also charge citizens, you will reduce the grey economy, boost economic growth, and eventually you will get more money in the state register. But what are you doing? This kind of tax repression is unremembered in our premises. Citizens must be aware that each of them gives 50%, over 50% of their salaries for various taxes and taxes. Even at the time of Francis Tahi, when the riots rose, the country was not so taxed. Then the riots that ended in blood were raised, and watch out for 3/10 of the produced, given 1/10 to the church, 1/10 to the property, 1/10 to the state. Today we pay almost twice as much, and where the riots are. Matija Gubec fought under the code for old rights. Ironically, we would have to fight under the same password today, but what is ironic is that we would have to fight for a return to be at least at the level of agricultural feudal Croatia, we would be happy with that. And what a corrupt country we live in proves repression against the poor population, it is destroyed, displaced, and further impoverished. While a corrupt elite with political ties successfully avoids paying taxes, could they do so if you weren't corrupt too, so in this country you can no longer buy bread without bribes, but therefore you can have an empire and you can't pay taxes. Non-payment of taxes in Croatia is unofficially one of the forms of state subsidies, and these same criminals who do so will, of course, return the same to their political metrics directly into their pockets. Gentlemen of the HDZ, let us remind ourselves of a little Ivica Todorovic his tax inspection has not entered Agrokor for 20 years. We can only guess what the tax debt is during his reign, but the latest information from the media is 135 million kuna. We can remember Tomislav Debeljak, the entrepreneur and owner of the famous and donated shipyard Brodosplit. Neither does the state nor tries to charge its 17.7m kuna while at the same time giving it loans in billions of kunas for ships that the entrepreneur does not even build. Nadan Vidosevic, our trophy criminal hunter, owes $12.5 million in taxes. Marinko Mikulic, a self-proclaimed Croatian paper king and HDZ who owes the state an enormous 215m kuna. Among the most famous natural persons is pensioner Marijan Kunina, who is presumed to have been involved in crime with the Croatian Railways and the question of whom all of our politicians have dropped the commission. His tax debt is 85 million kuna. Now that 85 million kuna is taken from his pension and it will take him about if we don't count interest 80,000 years to pay back that debt. These are all cases for USCOC, and they are undoubtedly linked to colleagues in this assembly right across the street from the Parliament in the government. And can this be done without political support directly from the very top? Not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172202	Thank you, colleague Vucelic. Next debate, dear colleague of Snow White Sabolek, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172203	Thank you, dear vice president of HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, most developed countries have a relatively high tax burden due to the financing of a larger share of public spending in GDP. The correctness that more developed countries have a higher level of public spending is explained by the so-called public finances and the political economy. Wagner's law. This law says that in the economic and social progress of a country, there is a regular link between the expansion of state activities, cultures, prosperity, etc. This results in an absolute and relative increase in state expenditure. Croatia is located in the top 5 most burdened countries in the EU, with Hungary, Poland, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic. Croatia is relying mostly on VAT, and it is evident in the budget that it plans to raise 56 billion kuna only from the tax next year, while another 16.5 billion kuna will be collected from excise duties. Croatia full of life, a small country with big taxes. For one decent salary, a 40% tax has to be paid, and that is, after a third has already left him for pensions of the existing pensioners and contributions to health care, and from what gets the net, it will again be taken a significant part as VAT when it decides to buy something. If we put aside the fact that Croatia certainly does not belong to a group of regulated countries in which public money is used rationally, i.e. those in which taxpayers are mostly satisfied that their money is available, it is obvious that the better-paid worker in Croatia is significantly more taxed than the average in other EU members. In other countries, the highest income tax rates are applied only on very high incomes and have an untaxable basis significantly higher. What's paradoxical is that the tax rates no longer necessarily mean higher revenues to the state. In economic theory, there is something called the Laffer curve, and it graphically shows that by increasing the tax rate of growth and tax revenues, but after a certain point of tax, the increase in tax rates no longer fills the additional and tax cashiers but actually vice versa. Let's say, when VAT was increased from 23% to 25%, VAT revenues not that they didn't notice a significant increase but they even fell. A similar result was when in 2012 income tax reduced the entry threshold to the highest tax rate of 40%. The revenues also fell instead of growing. The same thing, for example, just the opposite of a positive effect happened when they increased the non-taxable base and spread tax classes in income taxation. The workers remained more fruitful of their work, net wages increased, resulting in increased household spending, which is otherwise due to a large part of GDP growth, which then filled the country's budget with more than expectations. Tax cuts resulted in an increase in state revenues. Therefore, the direction in which the announced tax reform in the Republic of Croatia should go should be more than clear. Reduce taxes, and primarily income taxes. It is already certain that they would have positive side effects, which are then strengthened by one another, such as the reduction of the grey economy, the slowdown of outflows abroad, the competitiveness of the country would partly increase, become more attractive to investors, new investments would generate new employment, etc. So the conclusion is to cut taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172204	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Stephen Curaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172205	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear proposings and colleagues and colleagues, I don't know what I should say now, given that there are no colleagues from GLAS or SDP, so it makes sense that I'm talking, but of course I'm not saying this for them, as they didn't say it for me, but for the citizens and for the proposings, at least that's how it should be, but obviously some people like to have a little more attention when they talk. It doesn't bother me because I'm not here because of them, but because of the citizens, and I'm just going to look back at these once again, the repeated efforts of the SDP, I don't know just whose kitchen that came out of, and we're actually increasing the tax burden of citizens because the income from taxes is increasing. So two things that absolutely don't stand, they don't matter because it turns out that when we reduce the tax burden to grow our income from an economically clear postulate that we have to find one limit when it's in perfect equilibrium. So it's clear that at the beginning when we increase the tax burden to grow revenues, up to one moment when they start falling and vice versa. And it's very clear and simple and I don't know why it's being manipulated, I believe more of them know it, but here, at least it sounds so nice. But what I want to just apostrophe and mention again are six suggestions in this first reading that I want to make. The first is to consider the possibility of giving non-taxable people on vocational training, Christmas, nutrition and accommodation, etc., that is one. To facilitate this income tax for young tryouts, find a model for craftsmen who have, who are owners of crafts that have income from independent activity, and younger than 30 years old. Of course, right away at the start, we'll take out the cobwebs. I'll talk about them later. Also, one of the things we're talking about is that we'd like to point out for sure that we have to understand that someone who's willing to work in private from a kind of flat-rate trade, he gave up all the rules that belong to the Labour Act, such as cancellation deadlines, severance, sickness, jubilee awards, untaxable rewards, free days, all of which he gave up, and then he has the right to pay or receive more net taxes or pay less taxes, but only in this segment can he accept that if in that way he wants to throw out that institute, or the possibility that someone who actually worked with one employer, continues to work all 8 hours at that same employer only as a co-worker, then those measures could be taken but everything else would be counter-free entrepreneurship and free choice of every man because he chooses to destroy his own pension, choose his own future to be better now and not leave him as a right now and not to leave him as a right. As far as the Income Tax Regulation is concerned, I would like only to consider increasing the fee for the use of a private vehicle for official purposes by 2 kn on higher, 2.5 or 3 given that this is already almost not known, 20 years, 15 certainly and do not have to speak what were the fuel costs at that time, at the very end of the maintenance line and all that. It's also something we talked about previous changes, as far as... The shares, they have moved to be based on capital receipts, not on income, and remained on 24%, and our proposal was, and I remind you once again, that it may be considered in the amendments, I know that they are not covered by such an article in this law, but that the same thing about the future is to bring it down to 12% and one proposal, lastly, when we talk about this tax or the exemption of income tax for young people, that, as measures, compensatory measures are considered especially to cities that are not in that balancing, that we consider giving up as a state, to give up income from a memorial rent where it gets about 40% and revenues from buying social housing where it gets about 55% and thus help those cities that will be most affected by their tax revenues, in view of the reduction of taxes on young people and on the other hand, they are already due to their development of something in the fund and the most of money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here are those about six suggestions that I hope you'll consider between the two readings, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172206	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate, no colleagues from Maras. Final word on behalf of the club MOST of independent lists, respected colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172207	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, ministers with their associates. This is the fourth round of the whole, the debate ended in the first, so the first race or first reading of the fourth round of full reform, so this is the fourth time, but I will emphasize what I noticed in this debate and what it is to me that I would like to do. And the MOST club, which we would like. As a matter of fact, behind each round of full tax reform we have a worse situation in the matter, here I know, the minister boasted all the time that the discharge would be. Smaller taxes on... Food products, vegetables, meat, that it would affect something, so it didn't affect anything other than what increased imports, it happened, meaning increased imports and decreased domestic production, and now they're going to say that, it's slightly cheaper for our citizens, yes, but these citizens are mostly as long as it's cheaper, 100,000 citizens have gone outside, so now what you ministers are boasting about economic growth is basically boasting about the economic growth of those people who left Slavonia, G. Kotar, Like, Slavonia, who have gone to be in other countries, are now sending money and payments across signs, which is a huge part, 5% of GDP. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 5% of GDP, and if it wasn't for that 5% of GDP, at this point, I haven't received a reply from either the minister or the prime minister, which would be if it weren't for that 5%, if they had a projection, for example 2018 is 5%, now it's much more. So Croatia gets the most from its emigrants that the government has evicted from the Republic of Croatia and that is one of the key problems. Is economic war essentially something that's developmental and what's perspective or what's essentially the biggest damage that's happened, we've essentially moved the best and the best people to pay us money through the sign, to spend their money, to make it through VAT and other things, essentially tax various,... various essentially, filling your budget, this budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Another very important thing that I would like to point out here is that in 2/3 of Croatia, in essence, these are mountainous and mountainous areas and assisted areas that simply have no momentum, entrepreneurs have no chance of surviving in these areas, however, it is absolutely nobody's concern, that I was talking about when the law was passed while the former Minister of Regional Development was still here, but the law was passed on both mountainous and mountainous areas and on these areas, however, there is no measure yet to be passed, any. So, here they need concrete measures, mainly for people who survive in these areas, we absolutely don't have those measures when we talk about entrepreneurs, of course, that in G. Kotar of a man who's going to do something much more expensive is this production like I said individually, of energy or in the Dalmatian Zagora, and there's no survival, there's no demographic measures. This story about young people is going to be much better because of this, no, just jobs in areas where they move from, if they open up in Dalmatia, in my, jobs, if they let the entrepreneur have 5 years or 2 years or 3 years no taxes, let's let's let people not have in these areas essentially where, we have basically 2/3 of Croatia empty, so let's let these people, entrepreneurs, in these areas to develop, in a way that they don't have taxes, a certain number of years, a certain time, so when people get busy, when it becomes competitive, however, there's no more labour and no more entrepreneurs and what was, has moved out, and that's the key problem. And all these stories tax circles, we're running out of people, nations without nations, no people is empty. We must bring to the benefit of the people, the even development of the Republic of Croatia. Of course the minister doesn't care at this point that he's looking at the cards as it turned out in the media, it might be much more important to him right now than to hear the voice and cry out people in those areas. Two-thirds of Croatia are empty ministers, you are expected to encourage production, to dissipate entrepreneurs, and I suggest zero percent of the tax on entrepreneurs in these areas is the only demographic measure of law is the working place of a young man and a young family, and this is all essentially a holiday in empty hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172208	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. Final word on behalf of the prime minister, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Zdravko Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172209	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's a thank you for the debate, as was the case, and we'll go two times in the last two readings. Today is an open debate, we heard a few good interesting comments, more was actually a reference to certain specific measures, we didn't really get to include everything, but here's my fellow secretary of state, assistants or directors of customs and tax administration, along with our deputies, we've written down all of this, and the only thing I can say is that as soon as we get back to the Croatian Parliament with another reading, so some sort of appointment plan for the government somewhere at the end of November, we come here and get all this and discuss it, and then we hope to vote until the end of the meeting this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172210	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have a replica of dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172211	Thank you very much. Ministers, this government has passed the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and Undeveloped Areas or supported, but we have no measures, so rules and certain measures were expected. Are you thinking, I'm going to give the amendment to cut taxes in the areas of mountain and mountain undeveloped entrepreneurs? Here I'm saying that for a few years or a certain time they don't have taxes is the only thing we can adapt to an entrepreneur in these areas to create jobs. So the only demographic right measure is the workplace in two-thirds of the Republic of Croatia from my Zagora to your Slavonia, the Gorski Kotar. Do you even think about how difficult it is to be an entrepreneur in these areas where people have moved from and if something is not done urgently and if entrepreneurs are not encouraged? If their benefits are not greater to entrepreneurs, i.e. zero percent for several years in these areas of mountain and mountainous and assisted areas. The only measure is hiring people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172212	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. I'm closing the debate. Here you go, colleague Curai. ... You've got a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you've got a replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, then. Here you go, colleague Curai.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172213	Here's a thank you. I'll be very brief. I won't be long. I don't have a replica, I just wanted to mention there's a lot in the debates talking so neither this nor the previous ones as far as I know the tax changes and everything that's been done didn't go to harm either the burden of citizens or entrepreneurs. And I think it's a good practice that should take one position that every four years' term of office can't lay down rules that harm entrepreneurs or increase tax repression or burden so that they can plan their investments in a timely manner. That's the case, and right now, no one is taken more than they are freed to stay more for both the economy and the citizens, but I would say at the beginning when the rules of the game are established the only way to change it is in the favour of citizens and entrepreneurs and it's actually been going on here for the last four years, and I think it should become a rule instead of this exception. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172214	I thank my colleague Curai. Answer, Minister. Do you have an answer? You don't, thank you. I'm closing the debate. I thank Minister Zdravko Marić, Secretary of State Zdravko Zrinasic, Director of Customs Hrvoje Čovic and Director of the Tax Administration Mr Bozidar Kutleša for the reasons. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u172215	Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 780. The motion is Government, the debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting the following conclusion: “1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on value added tax is hereby adopted and 2. All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when determining the text of the final bill." Please vote. I find that most of the votes 84 for and 23 against us have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174704	We move on to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 779 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate, based on Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. I would like to ask the representative of Mr. Ivan Malenic, the Honorable Minister of Administration, to give us an additional explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174705	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. I welcome all of you together. Law amending and supplementing the Law on officials and tenants in local and regional self-government. Namely, the rights and responsibilities of officials and subsistence staff in the administrative departments and professional services of units of local and regional self-government or administrative bodies of municipalities, cities and counties are governed by the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government. In July 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a Regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government where the article 28 of this Act is complemented by a new paragraph 3 which stipulates that, due to the need to work on the implementation of the project financed by EU funds or programmes, a person may be admitted to the service for a period of time during the duration of the project as opposed to the solution to which the service is for a certain period of time to carry out temporary operations or operations whose scope has temporarily increased for 6 months and may be extended for another 6 months. This supplement refers to the possibility of the duration of the service for a period of more than one year to carry out the tasks of project manager, project administrator, coordinators and other persons working on project management tasks considered by officials in the administrative works and services of local self-government units. It is also prescribed that persons employed for the direct implementation of other project activities, i.e. in projects which are not considered as officials and tenants, are not subject to general labour regulations. In accordance with Article 4. The Law on the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues contained in the Croatian Parliament's section of law remains in force until 30 November 2019, resulting in the need to adopt amendments and additions to the Law on Officials and Residents in local self-government. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. A law on civil servants which allows for the employment of civil servants for a specified period of time for the purpose of working on a project financed by EU funds or programmes for more than 12 months or during the duration of the project. If the proposed law of service is not passed for a period of time due to the need to work on the implementation of the project, it could not last longer than 12 months, although projects generally last longer than 12 months, some even up to 72 months. In order to ensure administrative capacity necessary for the implementation and implementation of the projects, employees of those tasks should be given a new employment advert, the selection procedure and the reception of new employees who are yet to be posted to work, even though employees have been trained in these jobs. This would call into question the provision of the administrative capacity of local units necessary for the implementation and implementation of projects during the duration of the project as well as the continuity in the conduct of project management operations. These projects are carried out in the public interest, i.e. the interest of local self-government citizens, as their realisation will improve the quality of life of citizens. It is therefore big infrastructure projects, such as projects from the European Social Fund, such as the project "Try for" women's employment programme. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants, which has been redefined in the course of a public examination or has changed the name as well as the way in which the examination will be carried out in general for all officials regardless of where the public authority is employed. According to Article 89. The Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional self-government on the programme of a state expert examination and the procedure and method of laying down the examinations shall apply rules on civil servants. It is therefore necessary to align the name of that examination in both laws. Finally, the Law on the State Administration System raised the question of the continuity of the employment with the same employer for officials who, by virtue of the law, take over units of local and regional (regional) self-government related to the exercise of the rights of the service. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of The State Administration System Act stipulates that public administration offices in the counties are established under the State Administration System Act to continue to work until specific laws enter into force to entrust certain public administration transactions in the jurisdiction of the State Administration Office to the counties. The adoption of this law therefore ensures the continuity of a legal solution which has been in force since the entry into force of the Regulation supplementing the Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional self-government and is allowed to enter into service for a certain period of time because of the need to work on the implementation of projects financed by the EU programme during the duration of the project, so for more than 12 months. Thus, as I said, it ensures strengthening the administrative capacity of units of local and regional self-government and continuity in performing projects. Therefore, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I propose the adoption of this law by emergency procedure in order to ensure continuity in the performance of projects financed by EU programmes or funds and which are in the public interest of units of local self-government, which are conducted for more than 12 months. I would also like to point out once again, as I have mentioned before that the current legislative solution which is in force in the light of the derogation to the Regulation supplementing the Law on Employees and Residents is applicable until 30 November 2019 when the said regulation remains valid and it is therefore necessary to adopt this law in an urgent procedure in order to ensure the continuity of work on projects.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174706	I thank the ministers. We have a few replicas. Dear fellow Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174707	Thank you, dear Vice President. The respected ministers with their co-workers, therefore absolutely clear that the objectives of amending this law are to strengthen their capacity to implement and apply to EU funds. I'm only interested in what you mentioned, given that certain actors in this law will not be considered officers and tenants and will apply general labour regulations. Just to make that clear, it means for all persons who are under this law to be employed, they have to go through equal employment treatment, so the announcement of competitions and testing and reception in service or possibly not. So that's what's left of me questionable because I'm reading that they just have to so far been a problem with those particulars that they could only be for 12 months, and with this we're giving them the right to work on the project a lot longer and that's actually the only goal of this, but let's get that straight in the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174708	I thank my colleague Curai. A fellow minister's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174709	I thank the honourable MPs for the question, so as I have said, there are a number of projects in local self-government units financed by EU funds or the EU programme and to establish the continuity of work on these projects, and we know that so far there has been a maximum limit of one year, and these projects last longer, most often for many years, and some even up to 72 months. With these amendments to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local self-government, we allow the continuity of their work to be completed successfully. So I stress, it's about local self-government units and most often it's about projects that are for the benefit of citizens in that local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174710	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174711	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. It is necessary to highlight the specific importance of making it possible to work on certain units of local and self-government especially because of projects. We know how many employees are now required by certain municipalities, cities of counties related to the implementation of eu projects. I'm interested in the departments' side when you're doing an analysis of what effect this is exactly going to bring, i.e. What number of employees will this apply to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174712	Thank you. Minister Malenica's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174713	Thank you, Your Honor. So as I have said so far, it has been a practice that after a year the competition has to be re-implemented, the procedure is being conducted, the question arises whether the person who worked on the project for a year whether he appeared again in the competition, whether the continuity of work was being established, this was the project to the units of local self-government. And I still need to stress one thing that this does not increase the number and will not increase the number of employees in local self-government units but only enables the continuity of work on individual projects. As for the figures, we do not have a figure at this time because of the different sources of funding for all these projects whether from funds, whether from the EU programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174714	I thank the Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174715	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister. First of all, I thank you for this good intervention that will solve the problem of our units of local and regional self-government for the reason that the projects last much longer than a year and this way will no longer be questioned by those who work on these projects. However, I wonder if the units will have to have a job in their systematizations that is structured under the conditions of the person who is being admitted to work on the project and will have to be published through a job plan for such people who will work on the project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174716	Thank you. Minister Malenica's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174717	I'd like to thank the honourable MPs. So it's about people who are officials of local self-government who must thus be listed in the systematization according to... and the reception plan in service. And I would also mention the problem that we have so far had with the interest of employment on projects where they were mostly employed for a year because this was a restriction in this way. So whoever is employed has a guarantee that they will work for the duration of the project. So far, he has had a guarantee that he will work for a year at most because of these restrictions that existed in the current law. And by amending this law, we will achieve this by ensuring that persons who are employed have a guarantee that they will work during the duration of the project.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174718	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174719	Thank you very much. Ministers, this part of the law also applies to people who are civil servants and subsistence officers who cross from the state administration to the county. Do you even have an analysis of the effect of these counties as a minister? Do you have any analysis to tell us the meaning of the county? I can tell you my analysis. what we live. Here you are close, since the founded counties of Sibenik-Kninska, Split-Dalmatia in Dalmatia Zagora has 100,000 inhabitants smaller, and in the counties the triba extends either floor of the building or towards the waterfront in Split... exactly according to di also. What's the point of county anyway? County stands to end, they don't make any sense at all. These people are purpose to themselves. This is where the mayor became the lex sheriff your predecessor brought to Pharaoh, and the mayors, the mayors and local leaders had to be obedient, if they don't obey, then those projects will all stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174720	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Minister Malenica's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174721	Thank you, Reverend Bull. So as far as county and mayors are concerned, you're a few years ago as I recall you were running for mayor, so I don't know if you went out in a campaign with that thesis to end... Yes, and you're running for mayor. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, the county has certainly had its own sense of purpose, they also have their own additional meaning by trusting these 200 different jobs that should be carried out from January 1st within the county administrations, as well as local self-government units, so this law also applies to the county as units of regional self-government. There are also numerous counties that carry out various projects that are actually the engine of development of a particular environment. So in that sense, it is not at all a question of the county's status.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174722	I thank the Minister for his reply. Comrade Bull, you've had your chance, you've said, and you'll have another debate. I hope you will not run for the Croatian Parliament again and ask for the Croatian Parliament to be abolished. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Dear counterpart Ivan Šipic on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174723	The Honorable Ministers and Associates. My colleagues and colleagues. Those who deal in the field with eu funds and carry out them best know that after euphoria and decision-making to withdraw and sign contracts and ceremony and facebooks and publishing, boasting, promotions which is the same part of the job know that the hard part and the hardest part of the job comes when such a decision is made, and that is the implementation. Implementation that requires both people and abilities and people who will firstly be able to face many challenges that when concrete implementation occurs and in any area, as you said yourself, from the project Zaželi to the infrastructure projects. We know, especially in these times when a new period is ahead of us to get a lot of new and preparation and that one uncertainty lasts on the issue of us leaders and local self-government leaders in this negotiating sense of what will bring us, what reliefs, but also what challenges, not to say problems in what from the first decision, as I said, and to the final report when the entire team of people in all ministries, along with local leaders, comes to what, I would say, most solemnly then, that you have done the job satisfactorily, that you have not received a strong penalty and that if you were already penalizing, and leaders, colleagues know very well what it means today, that you will come out, so to say, as we say in Dalmatia, with a drill, i.e. with your own money, not so much returned, but not so much with your participation that you don't bend and so I say weaken your own fiscal capacity. Well, that's why, every law, every regulation that goes towards making it easier, that is. One of the most responsible for implementing hundreds, hundreds, hundreds of projects, and one billion kunas, not only hundreds of millions but billions of kunas. It is precisely one of the proposed laws, here and we have heard from you ministers, in that one introductory part, that is one of these laws, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Residents in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government is complemented by the existing law because of the need to work on projects financed by the EU Funds programme. The addition refers to the possibility of the duration of the service for a specified time, for more than a year to carry out the tasks of the project manager, administrator, coordinator and others working on project management tasks, considered by officials in the administrative departments and staff of the unit of local and regional self-government. People employed for the purpose of carrying out other project activities, i.e. on the project subject, are not considered employees and tenants of the local unit, but, as we heard, they are subject to general labour regulations. This law provides for the continuity of the staff carried out in the public service, public service and services of units of local and regional self-government for officials and subsistence who take over units of local or regional self-government by law. It is important to note, and this is always important to point out that the salaries of employees in the implementation of projects financed from EU funds and programmes under the grant Treaty are also provided by EU funds. That's what we on the field know best, what are the amounts, what are the percentages, what are the salaries, and little is said to have both the savings and the funds that we could use or maybe should have used to implement the projects, maybe we can direct them to something else. Although our country is still three and insufficiently efficient in using EU funds, local self-government from year to year, it is increasingly successful and stronger in preparing and negotiating EU projects. Analysis of official data from the Ministry of Finance on budget implementation shows that the cities of the EU funds withdrew over 314 million kuna last year, 3 times as much as 2017, when just over 89 million kuna was withdrawn. As an example, I can list one of the smaller local units, mine, here, so the town of Trilj, where we can really praise the EU funds where large funds have been withdrawn and prepared, especially in terms of these funds, for further planned economic growth. So over 74 million kunas have been secured from EU funds for economic development which has repeatedly exceeded our basic budget, so with these resources we have solved the project of municipal equipment, our economic zone, we have solved and implemented many tourist projects and infrastructure projects, the implementation of the project of building an entrepreneurship centre is under way, only for it more than 20 million kunas. Contracts on childcare financing, a new firehouse, have been signed which should end next year. One of the capital projects is a project of agglomeration worth nearly 100 million kuna, and for the entire Cetina region, there are no colleagues of Bulja, so more than half a billion kunas from EU funds through agglomeration projects, which will significantly help, not only in the creation of new jobs but also in helping and preserving, not only the Cetina River but also others, the Ruda River, all possible plums and springs, and we contribute directly and in this way not only to drinking water that the whole of Dalmatia drinks, but in this way we will protect and increase the safety of life in all forms. The adoption of this law shall ensure the continuity of the legal solution which has been in force since the entry into force of the Regulation supplementing the Law on Officials and corporals in local self-government and shall continue to apply by way of a step in force of the proposed law. In this way, even after the expiry of that Regulation, it is possible to join the service for a certain period of time because of the need to work on the implementation of projects financed from EU funds, therefore for more than 12 months. For example. and we heard from the minister, and we know who we are in practice, the project began, not that day, not just on the day of the decision, not just the signing of the contract after the public procurement process was carried out, but it has all its different stages that can last up to 3 years. In us surely, in the Cetina region of agglomeration will last if God gives more than and almost five years because it is a huge, huge means. Here, in this sense, we should welcome this bill, which I said, wants to help and facilitate local communities in implementing all European funds at all levels as we have mentioned here. That is why the HDZ Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174724	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174725	My colleagues and fellow MPs. So this law, in part, is in line with the Law on the Establishment of State Administration and the SDP Club has said everything about the law. So all those benefits that the promoter said would happen to that law don't stand. Will the state administration be more effective after that? He won't. Will it be closer to the citizens? He won't. Will it be more rational? He won't. Will it lead to decentralisation? He won't. In this intervention, however, the proponent also states that the introduction of this law will greatly increase the capacity of local self-government, so municipalities and cities in the implementation of eu funds. Unfortunately, I'm afraid not. Why? So he does it from his own example. In 2007, I was and I am still the head of the municipality, which, therefore, was, in 2007 when neither structural nor cohesion funds were present, but only those pre-accession ones withdrew and implemented the most projects throughout Europe. That sounds so nice now. But if I had to brag again, I'd rather hang myself. In fact, we have spent our own capacities and we have been in many problems until we have solved it, but young, old and crazy, we have come to an end and we would never engage in such a thing again. Today, units of local self-government that are seriously engaged in eu funds are using consulting services that are eligible for cost and why not. However, this intervention is necessary because you have passed the law that you have passed and therefore I see no reason why the SDP, that the SDP club does not vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174726	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Matjana. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, dear colleague Curaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174727	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, the Honorable Minister... very briefly in this part. [[The speaker doesn't understand because he got away from the microphone...]] So it is absolutely clear that here is working on something that is necessary to increase capacity, implement projects, obtain and implement all possible activities and activities that precede the negotiation and implementation of projects themselves. And it remains only for me and I also understand here that people who are employed for direct implementation of other project activities, so if it is not about the business of project manager, administrator, coordinator, etc., as regards the management of the project that they are not considered householders of the local unit, or local self-government. So it's like a project I think you want or something that's absolutely clear. You mentioned that there will be no increase in the number of perpetrators, now I don't know if that's true or not, I don't think that's a solution if there's an increased need for employment. My question was in any way to hire these people whether they would then have to follow all the rules in employment as they have so far. I believe that, yes, means contests or ads and everything else. And that is where we actually lead to what we wanted, and use this route and make a statement to the Minister as many times as I have spoken to this speaker, and this is exactly the condition and that is the very system of employment in the state, above all, the state public administration, of course, of course, that is probably what happened to the local one, and that is, through the unique competitions carried out by an independent external body, in particular, it could be an external evaluation agency for education and the formation of a single ranking list for admission to the state or public service. This would absolutely exclude any possibility of whether at a local, whether at any level in public services that public procurement bonds are accepted because someone's godfather, nephew, cousin, party membership, anything else here would simply be selected and based on a ranking list, it's nothing new, it's done and the EPSO system is doing it at European Commission level, a certain percentage of the resolution of these tests guarantees you some place on the list and application for a particular competition if two, three, means the first five or the first 10 that have applied from that list come to the interview. And in this way, that first selection, the main selection would have killed anyone who claimed that someone was there for any other reason than competence. Of course, this would also lead to an increase in the level of expertise and staff and possibly to make it more efficient and more economical for public administration. And I think it should start somewhere. Of course it has all the different obstacles, implementation, there are lawyers, economists, technical professions etc., etc., should go somewhere, should be seen with what is most used, primarily legal and perhaps economic interests, there is no problem making a unique rank list and then later adding others depending on what is required. So it's wound cancer I mean all people, young people, everyone here is bitter, that already comes to such cases as one kind of car, I won't say auto-censorship, but people already think that there's really someone there to know that something like that would work so they don't even sign up anymore. We have a situation where competitions are being debated in state services where no one is answering, it's this little weird and impossible, but it's happening, too. But not because there aren't so many people as how many people think they're free to apply because it's already all arranged and it's actually the cancer of our society's wounds and the kind of politics that we all have and that's what we should start working on. I took this opportunity to turn to it and, of course, draw attention to it. Of course, the HNS Club will support these changes, all that leads to the better absorption of European funds, and we welcome and always will support them especially because our ministries are on their own at the top of the withdrawal of funds already measured in billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174728	I thank my esteemed colleague Curai. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174729	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, distinguished ministers with their associates. Here is this proposal to amend the law. I see here that as I said in the replica, one part is about hiring people on projects, but I have to make it clear here that the projects regarding eu funds Croatia is at the beginning of withdrawing funds from eu funds, so in employment, you said about extending deadlines i.e. to be long-term employees of those who are on a certain time to be in the project. However, the fact is that it would be this acceptable, but the fact that employment is mainly in the county and probably also in these projects is probably missing the expertise and quality to do all these projects, that this is one of the problems because we are at the bottom of the retreat. I am not talking about bargaining, implementation, but by means of withdrawing funds, we are at the bottom of the EU below Malta, and I am saying that we are making a lot more payments to the EU budget, and that would be understandable. However, when we talk about the competition, what a colleague on behalf of the HNS Club said, so it always comes to me that you are the Minister of Sibenik-Knin County, so you know about that competition in Krka National Park was accepted by a person regardless of what the person was not accepted, with the status of defender and doctor of science Mrs Ljiljana Zmijanović not receiving what she was on that basis alone, but was also a Croatian defender, but that is why the person who got it was accepted, and you know Briška you are my Dalmatian and cherry, i.e. The shrubs and the two parties of the CNS and HDZ were caught and received. And that's the fact that you're leading and that's why it's at the bottom of your retreat. As for organized i.e. The state administration, you could talk about it and you're right that I was a candidate for mayor and my one of the main slogans was that I would do anything to lift the county that is holding back the development of my Dalmatian burn, and the island. The Dalmatian burns only then I said that 100,000 people have moved from Krka to Neretva since the beginning of the county. This means worse than all the occupiers of the Turks, all who have gone through the rally have always been a great source and the potential of the people, a large number of inhabitants have been in these areas. So there's a huge problem the county has and you know it very well that the counties are purpose to themselves. Everything they have to run about and are still strengthened, although you're not the one to blame, I'd like to hear your attitude, lex sheriffs they're mayors even strengthened. The congregations were weakened as well as the city and municipal councils, and so it was essentially given to the sheriffs to do whatever they wanted. And we won't talk about concessions on the good seas, what the county has done to the islands and the coast. They've made a mess of individuals, so there's a coalition down there, hey coalition for, say, Ben's assembling. There is one fine beach of Bene and the HDZ coalition and their coalition partner. And you give your family a nice concession, and that's one solid coalition down there, and that's how it works. It's a family county. Yeah, I'm running, I've had the courage to run and there's been a little... they've even fallen for me, it's made sense to control everything there, those boxes, they were completely different results, but it doesn't matter. It is important to send a message to prevent the development of peripheral local self-governments because of Split's Sibenik and other counties and it is very simple. Here I can colleague Šipić has mentioned here 500 million kuna investments in kindergartens,...a quick road amendment I believe a date on Sinj, a date on Knin, a date on Drniš, I believe you will support it. I believe you will also support that the co-financed state of mountain-mountan children's kindergartens, aunts, is not enough building, that they will co-finance because the Law on the mountain-mounted area of undeveloped areas has not been introduced, but these are plain pamphlets. And of course I expect those projects in that area to come back to life. However, the county of everything the tribunal has to take care of is absolutely a disaster. Waste management and you are out of here an example of waste, said Minister Ćorić, so that we would say to the European Commission that we have met the conditions, let us close 27 dumps that have the same sanitary conditions if mine in Vrgorec is mine in Sinj where the mayor of Trilj also postpones waste. And he did it a year ago, same waste in the area of Sinj, in the area of Sinj you put it off and everything ok, everything ok.... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174730	Dear colleague Šipic, I ask you nicely not to disturb your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174731	That's the nervous thing to do. ... I don't know what this is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm left with the opposition, I think I'm from the opposition here, so nervous. How many of you are there? Look, and of course that waste is being driven 120km away, is it not good-looking for the Ministers I am against this waste management, and the county says Lečevica, even your county is rebelling against the Licevica waste management centre and it's a firm fight against it and I am thinking rightly in this case, is that it's disastrous projects? 30 million kunas spent, hiring what was around the tribal job, and now you ministers can go and pick mushrooms there. So much for the waste management center, and at the same time 120 kilometers from Vrgorec will be chasing waste in Sinj. No, you won't. You won't. Here, I'm standing in front of the truck, not going after it. Of course, there's a colleague, Šipic, who jumped out later, and I'm sorry he didn't initially call him Minister Coric to stop it, but then he jumped in, and we'll find a solution. Let the populists go there. Well, the mother of Jesus. More expensive Vrgorcans, two or three times will be... The transport of waste, ecologically with old cars, combinations of those who are in ruins, means the very difficult financial capacity of Vrgorca, I will not say that from Sinj go to Vrgorac, but it must be taken care of by the Split-Dalmatia County. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't care, absolutely. Irrigation of the Sinj field, one very important project. Either Kninski or Peter's field, meaning in itself, that's all along the coast and very important tourism, no such projects. No, that's why people move out. So county's the problem. The only thing we have, Your Honor, is that when it's... The analysis so remember the municipalities that are loyal to the county, whether Sibenik-Kninski, Zadar or mine, have, if they took out a sample of asphalt, they would see exactly election cycles, local, presidential, only asphalt throw away. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Even if they did, when the elections were right, then Imotsky's route, down one, one municipality, I see 10 trucks of county roads. They're begging people to pave the way for a voice. And even... Can we get to the cube, don't need it, don't need it... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So there's no dipping chicken, no more than asphalt, you know, it's not like an egg, but it's blacked out of asphalt, they don't have coke. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, so many missouts from the county just to use people for votes. And that's why, let's say, my Cetina, he mentioned to you colleague Šipic, he's the mayor of Trilja. The Cetina River produces 40% of the Republic's hydropower, 40%. And we're fighting for a date on the highway, a project difficult, 2016 launched, 2016 a feasibility study was launched, a variant was chosen, the project weighs 200 million kuna, it can't. Stopped. Stao, I give tomorrow the amendment again, I will year by year, so Imotski, so Ravca-Drvenik, the only thing neatly ahead of the elections, distinguished ministers, mayor, ministers, you will probably come before the elections and you will probably open stone foundations, guards, lambs, insurance, rotations, talks and it has already happened to Ravca-Drvenik a 10-fold tunnel. And what's to be done? And what, I've said that 100 times and what lambs it was, it's being eaten, behind it... is made,.../incomprehensible/... is literally genocide over the lambs and remains on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's not good stuff when we talk about county. In my opinion, ministers, counties are a problem, decentralised healthcare funds, when they go, go to the county, decentralised funds when school goes to the county. And then the county approves of the local leader who is loyal and close to the mayor. Let's remember, not to these others. Because the mayor's role, the mayors are in a difficult situation. If he's not good for certain projects with the mayor, it's a disaster. As far as we're concerned, when we're talking about the state administration, it means here, and now such an incompetent county still gives us the authority of the state administration and the employees. Now imagine what it'll look like. So I know when they were seeing employees in the county, so more they're now investing in PR or forming, no portals that they didn't cover,... It's huge money being invested. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the mayor had been with someone, okay, that's nice, but every news, I mean it's being invested, it's, like, 5, 6 PR employees, 7, 10, 15. I believe that the counties in this kind of impediment not because they think that such results are and it's unfortunate to be a local leader, not to be obeyed by the mayor. And that's what I'm saying, I mean, seriously, now that I'm the mayor, I'd say it. And there are huge powers in the mayor in one person lex sheriff, huge. The congregations are simply powerless, except for something about the budget and something about spatial planning in that sense, and otherwise everything else is essentially in the mayor's hands and now we're such a bad mayoral organization, we have a county more than almost as many cities, more than the United States. I mean it can't work, I'm serious, I mean this is hard for me to say, me, me, look. Split is my city, Split-Dalmatia County is my city. Knin's my town, 13 years I've worked in it, I've been an employee of the 4th Brigade. That's mine, my end. But I'm sorry to be so raddenly emptying those ends. As far as health care is concerned, the same county and now we've strengthened the county, and that's the view, and as far as the projects are concerned, here's counterpart Šipic mentioned that, agglomeration. Well, it is a project, co-worker Šipic, Croatian Waters and company owned by local self-government. These are these projects and these projects should be pushed. And these projects were already to be carried out, but we know that we are running out of financial time, and we know how far it can be implemented. I hope we get involved alive and harder, not to shut down the court in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn, Sinj, so there's no one in the library department, i.e. to enroll in the cataster particles that are required to clean up so that they may, or consent, have a clear path for the agglomeration project. And Sinju shut down the court for us, and opened in 1873 during the reign of Francis Joseph, who came to Sinj, then to the Alak of Sinai and opened the court for us, and Sinj lost the municipal court. And there's no, there's no people, there's not enough personnel, what's got, it's redeploying to other places, and now this project is suffering because there's no people in the cataster who's going to type all these solutions, and the consent on that route, and that's a huge problem, I've been pointing it out here to the Minister of Justice. That's the problem. It's a huge investment, a huge EU fund project. So we're messing around to work,... We make fun of these projects. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the Justice Department was making fun of these projects in my case. As far as I'm concerned, once again I'm going to say my position, I think it's urgent, an urgent need to review the county and have courage and courage and really shut down the county. When I look at my Dalmatian Zagora where I live and live they are the key to bad development, demographic decline, here's a colleague.../incomprehensible/... let him confirm these facts from when the county was founded which is a demographic dimension, I, if I lie, will deny myself. So that's the end of it. Here, you co-workers who come from these parts, it's an empty area, a dead area, schools are shutting down, schools are shutting down, meaning absolutely dead area, and we've been tribaling to be the most prospective, most developed primarily this Split background, the Sibenik hinterland, the Zadar hinterland, it's becoming dead. Zadar doesn't do anything about the highway or something because there are ports, that is. A gazelle who basically gave foreigners for very small money, but the county as a county looking at my Dalmatian Zagora, including Skradin, which I am going through is a catastrophic situation. That's why I'm giving you this information so that you as minister think, I'm giving you a solution, and the only solution and the only real act is to shut down counties that are exclusively for the control of election cycles, and only for that. And when I went to the mayor all the time I kept saying this, County Tribba shut down. And if I go next time, if I decide I have no idea, someone else can, if I go, I'll do anything to shut it down. It controls schools, they control health care, and everything falls apart, the health services in ruins, and we're now the state administration assigned these people to them, and they're simply purpose to themselves. and control of party personnel. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174732	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Indeed, colleague Bulj does not need to call any parliamentary representative during your debates, so I would ask you nicely not to do so in the future. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174733	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague of Bulj has been injured by Article 238. Rules of Procedure, he was completely off topic. My colleague Bulj, I'm really fond of you as a man, but your debates are spinning in a circle of one and the same regardless of what the agenda is. This current debate would eventually fit if we had a reshuffle of the state administration or an amendment to the Law on the establishment of a state administration, but now it has been completely missed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174734	I thank my colleague Jelkovac, I agree with you in part that he wasn't in the topic, but unfortunately he's not the only one, but leave it to me that I'm worth it, so thank you very much for the suggestion. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. Comrade Bulj, you already have two warnings, if you abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure now, you will receive a third. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174735	The violation of Article 236 of the College has hurt, I know that President Jandrokovic was in China that he abolished those groups, but you will not tell me what I will write and what this law applies to. You might be able to write it, I'm sorry, this is freedom of speech, I've talked about county here, and here it concerns the deputy and officials from the office of the state administration who crossed means under the county, and I am loudly telling you that the county is cancer of the early Croatian society. And since the vice president's been giving you a little bit of a lecture on me, how he doesn't have the power to do business or register. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That he gave the kind of attitude that my speech was, moreover, that he made a very good visit to China and that he offered well that dictatorship from China your president's assembly. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174736	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I told you nicely before you called in the wrong article, 236 was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and which article was injured you didn't say, so you misused the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. On the basis of Article 240(2), I give you a reminder by taking away the word until the end of the debate on this item of the agenda. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Dragica Vranjš.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174737	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Minister Malenica and his associates, distinguished fellow MPs and MPs, here's my colleague Bulj, if we can get this one back on the subject. As far as today's topic is concerned, however, what was somehow mentioned in the previous debate in front of the Most, and counterpart Bulj mentioned that we are always a net payer which is not true. Since the Republic of Croatia joined the EU, it has always been a net recipient, not a net payer, so this is very important when we talk about EU funds. What we allow today's proposals to implement is a simpler and safer EU fund implemented by local self-government units and when we talk about compared to the former national funds and why it is good to use the EU funds I always say that the effect of that kuna or one euro is important to achieve that one EUR did do what it used to do before EUR 3 because when it reports each project is seen its sustainability, it is always important to see its effect, economic cost-effectiveness, and unfortunately, especially in local self-government units, projects have often rested on young employees, as well as fellow Mateljan, a little crazy full of enthusiasm, and it is certainly good when we report projects that sometimes if we forget the human capacity that must be involved in the implementation of each project, that alone, the tender documentation tells us how acceptable or how much human capacity it is expected to be on each project in the future. The unit of local self-government is the bearer of various projects in its area especially infrastructures they carry projects although we have kindergartens that are public institutions, sports centres, schools, firehouses, but all these projects are mostly carried out through units of local self-government that are both mostly and owners of infrastructure facilities. In kindergartens, we know that kindergarten principals come from the ranks of aunty kindergartens, as well as school principals from the classes of teachers, so that all of these services that are in the city have to be further strained to implement these projects, which is both justifiable and reasonable. But when they're spent and especially when it's bigger money, and when we talk about smaller units of local self-government, especially in my area, they often rest on one of the head of a single management department, there's even in my field those who only have the chief of staff, possibly the secretary. It is very important that the person who comes here in the right sense of the word begins the project when the person who is employed when being stalked and really understands the intensity that has been assessed by the evaluation body, which the applicant has reported in the project itself. It is therefore very important that this person and the way in which it is employed be tailored to the project itself, not only by a regulation that has so far been allowed to be employed in a local self-government unit on 30.11.2019. We have the project "Wishful" most of them are familiar with them, they last about two and a half years, so employment has been at 12 months. All major infrastructure projects are mostly more than a year, and this is particularly expressed along the coast when we also have a construction ban most of the year, so it is very important to watch that part. And I really appreciate that this has gone completely through with this intervention, and I would like to stress that only a year is not a limit for employment to be set out in the implementation of the eu funds of projects if the project is not only a guarantee to the employer or the municipality and the city, it is a guarantee of successful implementation of the project. And we saw that every year double the amount of colleagues, Šipic, said over 300 million kuna, are implementing units of local self-government projects from eu funds. I personally participated not throughout the period through the unit of local self-government mostly through a non-profit organisation on projects over 100 million kuna and I know how important it is and how hard it is today to find an employee who will do it well, and there is another big challenge here to find the contractors for all these infrastructure projects, so that definitely regulations should not be something that costs eu projects, they should be dynamic and adapt to them, even though sometimes it seems awkward to change some law and regulate some law, but we are passing so many laws in the Croatian Assembly so that we really need to be quick. And I welcome that this is in an emergency procedure this date, which is planned quickly and I certainly believe that many municipalities of cities and municipalities feel relieved after these laws and I welcome and support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174738	I thank my esteemed colleague, Vranesh. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Gordan Maras. He's not present. Dear colleague Maria Mačković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174739	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected MPs and MPs. As longtime unit leader of local self-government, so over 20 years, and since '93. Until '99. As an official in the local self-government unit, it would be unfair or unforgivable not to address the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional (regional) self-government. The more the debate today in this House was about officers in local self-government units, and in a negative sense, that they were mainly arrests or workers. I believe and come from the area of Sisak-Moslavina County where there are 12 units of local self-government, so there are 12 municipalities and 7 cities. I know that all those in this area are very valuable and that they are fighting for projects without working time and there are no units in this area that are not implementing at least one European project, and most of them are implementing two, three or four projects. I also don't think that these officers in those units are guilty, that in some way responsibility if these officers don't work is on the heads of the local self-government unit because they are in charge of the local self-government unit functioning and fulfilling its task as a law of the day. So, in addition to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government as a long-standing leader, as I have said to the units of local self-government, I would like to share my thoughts on the subject of local officials and subsistence. Local officials and tenants in my view are, by their own size and type of work, real specialists for all matters relating to life and work in the local environment, especially in rural border areas. Local self-government officials are the first link between residents and the central state and their work and work of leaders depends on the daily life of residents in local self-government especially in smaller areas. They must know and be educated for a wide range of knowledge, skills, have enough patience to solve everyday problems of interest to the local population. Their competence comes from the construction of municipal and social infrastructure and environmental protection, animal welfare, social care, the whole range of tax laws, social and firehouses, the Law on Sports, Culture, Agriculture, starting from a programme of availability to enforcement, veterinary, education, scholarships, fire departments, protection against natural disasters, pre-school education, the management of care for institutions in culture, commercial societies in their possession, the care of young people and persons of third age, traffic in their territory, etc., etc. In addition to day-to-day jobs, they must take care and have accurate and timely information on competitions from national funds, i.e. EU ministries and funds, as this opens up the possibility of applying to EU funds. Any official who wishes to do his job, which is not exactly or defined under quotes, is possible, together with the head of the local self-government unit, to respond to all the challenges ahead of them regarding projects running for open EU competitions. There is no agency or service that can apply projects to some competition because it was said that mostly agencies are paid without co-operation with local self-government officials, as small units of local self-government are drivers of development in their environments. By 2008, the working and legal status of local officials and tenants was properly resolved, i.e. the special Law on civil servants and general labour regulations, which created a lot of difficulties for the leaders of local self-government units. After a long time, the Law on Officials in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government was adopted and published in the National Journal 86/08 and amendments to Laws 61/11 and 4/18. It was then adopted with regard to local officials and subsistences of the Law on their salaries and a regulation on the classification of jobs in local and regional regional self-government was adopted, thus facilitating the conduct of official relations in local self-government, which is commendable. After all these passed laws, there was a need because certain units of local self-government were running or working hard on their projects and running projects in an EU competition. It is not easy to run for projects it is not easy to get, you do not know whether it is easier to get it, whether it is harder to implement it because implementing EU projects in local self-government units with a small number of employees that my unit 5 and I, the 6th volunteer and as a leader who must be guided by the attention of a good master, must respect all the procedures that we have signed in accordance with contracts for these projects. So we can't afford those of us who have little resources to get some corrections on the projects that we've run for and who we want to implement. Then, the Government of the Republic of Croatia added Article 28 to its regulation to assist units of local self-government, enabling the employment of officials and subsistence on projects, so as to help us employees in local self-government units. As the Government regulation provides for a part that falls within the competence of the Croatian Parliament, this Regulation should, as far as I know, cease to be valid on 30 November this year. So that regulation defines what the state is, which is local officials, and what people who do not belong to local employees are the ones who are directly involved in the implementation of the project and which are subject to general labour regulations. For all of these meanings, officials and possibly the person implementing the programmes are mainly insured in almost 100% of the amounts by the projects we have received and implemented. Next thing I know, this law, the final bill that we're talking about today, complements the gaps of the existing law and makes it easier to work in the local self-government, means the doubts we had are gone. It is certainly necessary to support the draft of this law and in its articles, the law has made good use of the situations on which we have had, shortly before saying that work on activities related to the management of a project financed by EU funds or programmes, that this service is for a certain time during the duration of the project, and that persons employed in other project activities are not considered officials and tenants of the local unit and are subject to general labour regulations. Finally, I believe that the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Servants and Landowners is finally defined by their legal status, so their rights and obligations as well as those local officials and subsistence officers are certainly when their status is defined, and they are, as I said, the first link between the people in their territory. [[I thank my esteemed colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174740	Thank you. We have a replica. Dear colleague Maria Jelkovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174741	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues, you have said well in your debate, officials in local and state administration are often unwarranted even though they do work hard and professionally, so that I agree with your debate, and in the contribution of the officials to the changes in this law, they are bound by the continuity of the employment, and I think it is a good thing that in time you have anticipated these changes precisely because we now have this mass takeover of officials who have been in the offices of the state administration in the county so that these people are not actually punished because they have passed the law and become local officials, and therefore they would not be granted the right to add to the loyalty of the service, I think this is a full guess, that at this point they are going to this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174742	Thank you. Answer, colleague Mačković, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174743	You are rightly respected MPs, I believe that this law as I have said, the bill, the Final Proposal of the Law on Local Servants and Landowners gives security to local officials and tenants for even more valuable and efficient their work in local environments because they work for the needs of their residents and they are the holders of activities in their area and fight together with leaders for progress and improvement of particularly small rural environments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174744	Thank you. Final word on behalf of the promoter, Honored Minister Ivan Malenica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174745	I would like to thank all the representatives and club representatives who have supported this law. I believe that even though my colleague Bulj did not explicitly say that, but he supported this law because he believes that the Aglomeration of the Sinj area project is very important to him, and this law provides for the continuity of the work of officials who are employed on European projects, which is certainly one of the projects. So, most of you come here from local self-government, whether you were in charge or you were in charge of local self-government officials, and you know best what the intensity of the work on projects is funded by EU funds and programmes. So here we hope that these amendments to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local self-government will enable local and regional self-government leaders to successfully implement the numerous projects they are currently carrying out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174746	I thank the Honorable Minister. I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank Minister Ivan Malenica, State Secretary Katica Prpic and Assistant Minister Dejan Dracula for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we will continue our work tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a statement on the amendments. And I thank you for a pleasant rest of the day. SESSITION INTERNED IN 19.24 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-11-12-0.u174747	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and Detentions in Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. In 779, the applicant is the Government, and the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal of that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 97 and 97 votes unanimously, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Officials and corporals in local and regional (regional) self-government.
