ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137555	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Customs Service Act came into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, and its provisions were leveled on 2 occasions on the second time in 2014 on the second time in 2016. Based on... the administration is the application of customs excise and tax and other rules, and the law itself regulates the work, the work of the customs administration organisation, through the authority, and the obligations and responsibilities of customs officials and their legal position. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The 2018 National Reform Programme established a reform measure to bring together inspections under the State Inspectorate as a basis for the more effective conduct of inspection operations carried out by certain central authorities of the State Administration. The business of the customs administration, prescribed by the applicable Customs Service Act, includes, among other things, part of the business contained in the reform measure, which took over from 1.4 this year in part the work of the State Inspectorate, the new Law on the State Inspectorate. Therefore, the main objective of amending and supplementing this law is to align it with the Law on the formation and division of the Ministry, as well as other central authorities of the State Administration, and with the new Law on State Inspectors, and given the re-establishment of the inspection system, i.e. taking over part of the affairs of the Customs Authority, by the State Inspectorate, as I mentioned 1.4.1 this year. Therefore, this draft law proposes to exclude, from the rules of the customs service business, the exclusion of operations involving, supervision of the enforcement of the rules governing the general conditions for the exercise of the activities of companies, traders, individuals and crafts, in the sense of registration, authorisation for work, solution, consent, second approval of the competent authorities, the subject of establishment and the company. It shall then monitor the implementation of the rules governing the provision of trade and the provision of services, the detection and prevention of illicit and illegal trade, the supervision of the enforcement of the rules on the prohibition and prevention of the performance of unregistered activities, the control of movement, availability and traffic of dangerous products and products for which the placing on the market is prohibited or restricted or for which withdrawal from the market is ordered, or products which do not meet the prescribed technical requirements and pose a serious risk to health and safety. Afterwards, surveillance in the area of transport of goods and services of catering activities and the provision of services in tourism and the collection of tourist tax. Following that, supervision of the implementation of the rules on the prohibition and prevention of unregistered energy activities with oil and petroleum products. Further supervision of the implementation of the regulations governing audiovisual activities, supervision of the implementation of regulations in the area shall place on the market forest reproductive material, and supervision of the application of regulations governing the restriction of the use of tobacco products, except in the field of supervision, traceability and monitoring of tobacco products, and the use of a security mark, which shall, by nature, constitute the area of jurisdiction of the customs administration. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is further nomtechnically governed by certain provisions of the law, with a view to making the norms more precise and correcting the observed uncertainty and defects, including in accordance with the provisions and other regulations. In this respect, a normative statement is specified in relation to the definition of the concepts of the system of analysis and risk management, data management from that system, as well as data collected or established in the exercise of supervision. Also in accordance with technological development and regulation in comparative and European law, the use of technical equipment for the purpose of ensuring the identity and identification of goods is regulated, and the establishment of an area of state border and border crossings is normised. Finally, I only note that the implementation of this law does not require the provision of additional resources in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137556	We've got five replicas, first mate Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137557	Thank you very much, President. Dear Secretary, we are talking about a very important law, but I must warn you, since you are part of the government and we fellow MPs, of something that is at the level of environmental disaster. Yesterday, toxic industrial waste from the DIF factory in Knin ended up in the Krka River and reached the Krka National Park. I would once again have your secretary, all of us here, your President-in-Office of the Parliament, to warn the Minister of the Environment to protect the waters in the Dalmatian Zagora. It's an ecological disaster. I know you'll also have the right to give me a warning, but I don't have any other instrument as a parliamentary representative from that area to point out that. Once again, Minister Ćorić will be instructed to immediately protect the Krka River, from which water is fed and used throughout the Sibenik area, industrial waste... In the river. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137558	I thank my colleague. So I won't give you a warning, because then you'd say I gave you a warning because you warned me about environmental pollution. But, like this, you have instruments, you call a press conference, you call the press, you can organize and do whatever you want, but please, it's really a subject, we know which, so let's not do this kind of thing right now. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure at all, and please. Now I'm going to give you a warning, if you're going to use it now. Please, fellow Bull, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137559	I'll give up, but I really don't have any tools to warn you, because for press, everything is taken, and this is happening... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137560	Comrade Bulj, I'll help you, so I'll call the press, so here at the door go and give them a statement, please. Comrade Dark Taritash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137561	Thank you very much, President HS. So with April 1st, the State Inspectorate began to work. These amendments and additions to the law go into emergency procedures related to the functioning of the State Inspectorate. I actually have two questions. One question is that we haven't been able to get an answer, which you probably don't know either, but I'm curious about how many from the customs service people go to the State Inspectorate, so how many people are going to be in the State Inspectorate and how many people are going to stay in the customs service. And the second question, is this the last law from your portfolio, so to speak, that we get about the State Inspectorate or are we going to get more laws? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137562	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137563	Thank you very much, ma'am. MPs. So, as for the transfer of civil servants from the customs office to the State Inspectorate, 72 passed at this time. As far as our regulations are concerned in the light of the harmonisation of these activities that have passed on to the State Inspectorate, at this point we have no regulations that are within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance that they should be further aligned with the affairs of the State Inspectorate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137564	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137565	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State. I wonder if you can tell the Croatian public what percentage of our customs duties are being paid into the EU budget and how much money have we paid to this end of the year? And I'm also interested in answering, can Croatia introduce self-protective customs duties on imports of agricultural products, since that import has destroyed Croatian agriculture and perhaps something should be done to protect domestic production, if there is still something to protect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137566	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137567	Thank you very much for asking. As for income, they move on average between 300 million and 400 million kuna. Of which, 20% is paid to the EU budget. As regards this second part of the issue in terms of agricultural and other products, it is the exclusive competence of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137568	He's a friend of Sagar's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137569	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State. I'll explain it a little more clearly in my debate, but whether it was a failure or not to take care of an article. 8 of this law, which states that the customs administration is managed by a director who is a state official with the post of Assistant Minister of Finance who then manages and works of the Central Office and is assisted by the Deputy Director and Assistant Director. Since we have legal procedures for the State Administration System Act tomorrow, where ministerial assistants will no longer exist, so whether this relationship should be changed now in this package and in this article. 8. How could we not come back to this, that if we had to change the law again?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137570	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137571	Here, thank you very much. So in accordance with the coordination carried out by the Ministry of Administration, it is decided, given that there are several legal regulations and sublaws, that they will go after the Government's conclusion and that, by means of one regulation, these novels will then, in the sense of all other legal regulations or sublaws, change in terms of the assistant minister that they are no longer in the existing law. So, in order to simplify the procedure, given the exceptional number of legal regulations. And, if you allow, only in the context of a moment ago, so there would be no misunderstanding, so 20% remains in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, 80 EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137572	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137573	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. What I must protest in the adoption of this law is the fact that we have passed more laws in this House than any other topic in the Republic of Croatia because of HDZ and Andrija Mikulić, even a few of the presidents of the City Assembly in the City of Zagreb. We applied 20 laws to catch Andrija Mikulić from HDZ. How much effort have we made to hire people, to stop emigration to Croatia, from Croatia, to make our pensioners live better and have more pensions, to raise minimum wage, to make HDZ and most of them are nothing But for Andrija Mikulić, we made 20. [[/Intruder: Thank you. Thank you.]] The law to be incarcerated [[Intruder: Thank you fellow Maras.]] HDZ, Prime Minister Plenkovic and him, realised. [[Intruder: Comrade Maras, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137574	You do this one more time, you'll get a warning. I'm begging you. to respect time and what I say to you as chairman. [[I have to finish my sentence. /]] Please sit down. Would you like to respond? Now we're going to the Committee's reporters? Do they want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate. The first is Anton Kleman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137575	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here, we have another law to comply with the State Inspectorate Act. So, it's a law of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia, where we have united after, I would say, a failure, of 4, 5 years, when all these inspections returned to their kind of resolute ministries and proved to be very inefficient of this kind of action and there were very many failures and I definitely would not agree with my colleague, Maras, that this was done for one man, but it was done because of the efficiency of the inspection services themselves, so we heard from the Chief Inspector himself that, unlike the previous mode of action, the operation of the State Inspectorate would be, to a large extent, advisoryly, that there would be less and there would be one cooperation between the inspectors on the ground and the economics themselves. I am deeply hoping that this will be the case and that the State Inspectorate will justify its re-forming. As we know, it is a very extensive job and perhaps it is and may not be justified to criticise it now that laws have not been passed in time, but here, this is now just the beginning of the work of the State Inspectorate and it will certainly be further organized to be the right one but it will be dealt with as soon as possible, one of these laws is also this law where practically some obligations and obligations of the customs service are transferred to the State Inspectorate itself. Therefore, in this law, it is proposed that the list of customs services exclude operations which include the supervision of the implementation of regulations governing the general conditions of the exercise of the activities of companies, traders of individuals and crafts, registration of authorisations for work, solution, other approval of competent authorities, subject to business, headquarters and company, supervision of the implementation of regulations governing the operation of trade and the provision of services in detection, the prevention of illicit and illegal trade, supervision of the enforcement of rules on the prohibition and prevention of the conduct of unregistered activities, supervision of the movement of availability and transport of dangerous products and of products whose placing on the market is prohibited or restricted or for which withdrawal from the market is ordered, or for products which do not comply with the prescribed technical requirements and pose a serious risk to health and safety, supervision in the field of the transport of goods and services, the catering of services of services and the provision of services of services of services and the collection of the duty to be subject to the necessary use of the legislation in the field of the law of law of law and the law of law to the law, the law of law of law of law, which impose. So all of this goes to the authority of the economic inspector, which I think is very good, I will just go back to one of these questions which in some ways made me very sad and solidarity with fellow tourist inspectors who were formerly tourist inspectors are now economic inspectors, that they could not, with their powers, join me in reviewing the rooms and apartments that were not registered. That was one absurd. So you could, as a tourist inspector, only legally registered and registered activities to control and to the neatly registered tenant, could have been someone who rented apartments on black, couldn't do anything but call the customs service and the police to determine it, while they came to the scene of what is said crime, was no longer in that apartment, they were not subject to absolute treatment. Now, this power goes to the economic inspector, the economic inspector will, as soon as the issue is determined that someone on black rents, it's clear to these transfers of powers, it will be able to intervene on the spot and will be able to sanction the work on black as well as a series of these other activities that encourage illegal competition in the Croatian economy itself, which I think is very good, for such cases I don't think absolutely should be, there should be zero tolerance, so there should be no advisory action, but I think that should be repressive right away, so we should already be able to tackle that grey or black economy as we like to call it. In any case, the HDZ club will support this law, I think it is good and here, through these changes and the transfer of powers to the economic inspector, I think we will return the dignity to the inspectors themselves but also increase efficiency to overcome irregularities in the Croatian economy and on the market, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137576	Second debate, dear colleague Ivan Pernar on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, since he is not losing his right to speak. The third is the Club of Independent Representatives, the Honorable Tomislav Zhagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137577	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with an associate, colleague and colleague. This is another one in a series of laws, technical laws, which transfer this process of removing state inspection from individual ministries to the State Inspectorate and have no objections. I think the only thing that's going on here is the fact that we've lost a lot of time, and we've lost a lot of time, and we've lost a number of these laws with the establishment of the State Inspectorate, and I don't know how many laws we've changed here, and as we can see, he's now announced the Secretary of State if I understand it well, and Article 8 of this law doesn't change in which the Director of Customs Administration is in the ranks of the Assistant Minister, and it won't be from tomorrow, not tomorrow, from the moment the bill is passed if the system of state administration is passed, so the Ministry of Coordination will answer to the coordination that there will be a change of law in the part where the assistant ministers are deleted, so we'll have a series of laws that will come here again, and I guess that'll need procedure, but if so, yes. What I would like to point out in this law, I think that Kleman, in front of the HDZ Club, said that in this way, to unite the affairs of the State Inspectorate and what is most important, which he said, as we have already said here several times at the State Inspectorate, to try to include the advisory part through the inspection, so that the inspection does not only serve to punish but to better comply with the laws and that the whole system would then not only be more effective than that repressive system is an appropriate level of offence. Namely, I have to mention in this context something that is now, this morning I read it to the media, and before that, just to point out that the customs administration, through the customs administration, comes 1/5 revenues from the Croatian state budget, so of 25 billion, that is 20% of the budget, of which is the largest part of the excise fee of over 15 billion kuna and 9 billion kuna of VAT from this part, of course this VAT is included the one, the total collected VAT of which is the most significant revenue of the budget of 60 billion, pardon 50 and some billion kuna. So it's a very important state institution, customs service, customs administration, through which we see, that a very generous part of that money going through, and now that part of the inspection will go to the State Inspectorate, and we hope that there's a lot of money in question, it's all done. However, here I have now said what I agree with my colleague Kleman from HDZ, but what I disagree with, and I have repeatedly pointed out in the debate, it is not about repression, it is said the State Inspector cannot enter someone's private space, because it is justifiable that he, something of this, is working on black, has not reported. It was a similar thing to subletting agricultural land. The inspector comes, but he can't actually do anything, because there's no proof, no contract, so who's gonna make you a crazy sublet deal. But what I resent to the Ministry of Finance, Secretary of State, to you in the ministry, so you have all the tools, so I suppose you have, so where are the accounts of this man, from where did he get the money? If he's working on black, so there's something you can see, there's a trail of money, why isn't he working on it anymore? There's an OIB, I don't know, is there really a need to get into the house, to figure out how much money there is? We had a case here with one of our fellow MPs, who had an hour, I don't know, extremely valuable, so I guess somewhere there's evidence of how he got to that hour? I think the IRS in that sense and the Ministry of Finance can do more. But now let's go back to one part I read in the media this morning, which is ultimately tied to the inspection work itself, which has been removed from this law. Namely, they'll send or 19,000 fines have been sent. Watch out for 19,000 fines. From 10 to 100 thousand kuna for the company from 5 to 20 thousand for the director of the company. These are all those who have not submitted annual financial reports on business or have not submitted a report on inactivity. There is a strong assumption, likely, that many are not out of ignorance, that they have established a simple society of limited responsibilities, have not handed over that or have not made a statement and will now be exposed to such penalties that are extremely high. There is a possibility that they are complaining and should be directed to complain, so the criminal court will then give them a lower sentence, but it certainly is not good to punish people in this way for something they did not mean to do or were not informed enough. He says it doesn't justify it in terms of legal violations, but let the Ministry of Finance take care of this account, because you must, State Secretary, you must know, that the people who go into liquidation of the company, here yesterday we had the law, was Minister Bosnjakovic, however, to welcome such a law. Duing the business ladder will certainly make us in that sense increase our position. We can now start an online company, the core capital has fallen significantly. So, like in that joke, it says how much it costs to go in to the party, no matter how much you go in there, you want to get out, and now you're gonna pay for the way out. So is our business world. The establishment of a company quite conveniently, but only the closure of a company says some, that according to the new Law on Contributions, if it goes up to a year, it can... A considerable cost of 40 thousand kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And about that, take it to the Department of Finance's accounts. As for the other amendments to this law, we have no objections to see, just to say, there's no reason not to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137578	We're going to an individual debate now, dear colleague Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137579	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, I will start with this first thing he mentioned may not be directly related to all the articles and articles of this law, but it is very much related to the principle of duty and how this government works. So the 15 thousand fines FINA will send to people who have forgotten to send their report on inactivity, as a rule of inactivity and who will pay fines, 10, 15 thousand kuna for it, and penalties will be sent by Zdravko Maric Minister of Finance. It's usually people who did their job that didn't keep working, because they retired, etc. but will receive astronomically high penalties from a man who has violated the principle of public duty in the case of Agrokor and in the case of the Minister of Finance, which he now deals with, which has established the commission and has not paid any penalty. So, fellow Maric, for his injured principle of public duty, did not pay any punishment, he will now send 15 thousand fines to ours, as a rule, to older people who have finished their business and to collect fat fines on behalf of the state and FIMA. It's just about the brief intervention, about what you said on behalf of the club. I see that fellow Shuker, few people, isn't exactly about the subject, but I had to just say it because it's a huge injustice, which this government is doing. Now let's move on to amending the Customs Administration Act, or what I said in my initial presentation. It is a shame for colleagues and colleagues that because of one man, one party, HDZ and Andrija Mikulić, we are changing over 20, 30 laws in the Croatian Parliament, we have spent so much time here to please the petty political trade, Milan Bandic, Andrija Plenkovic and Andrija Mikulić. That is why the Croatian Parliament was sitting and sitting here today to change the law so that one HDZ person would leave the seat of the president of the assembly, the second one came, rotted with Milan Bandic and to get an institution to feel powerful, to have 1500 inspectors, to have leased into all possible empty space that has state and inefficiently manages state property. He was hired by a former INA building in the very centre of Zagreb for which the state will pay astronomical money. So that's why we're changing this law, which is why we've spent hundreds of hours here discussing and the effect of this law is going to be one function and one entanglement of the HDZ on a powerful function that will then put possible for the first time in the Republic of Croatia that this inspectorate is put into political hands so that Mr. Andrija Mikulić and HDZ determine who will be sanctioned, who will be reviewed by the customs administration, or former customs officials and who will not. And then normally in this situation, the legitimate question of Croatian citizens is where justice is, or where there are the same criteria for all those living in our country. And now I'm going to tell you how, like, the customs administration did in the last year. The owner of a flower shop in infidelity, in Koprivnica because of 10 kuna closed flower shop, because 10 kuna because an employee of the customs administration came in to order a Margarette, went out the words of the lady very quickly and closed the place down. For 10 kunas. Secondly, in Đurđevec, in that part of Croatia, employees of the customs administration are obviously the most active and the most agile person is sickened, ended up in an emergency room. And what does he get? He's getting a fine because a customs agent came in and didn't find anyone in his shop. So the man's sick. Normally, if you go to the E.R., if you don't have God to give you such health problems that you can't be in your shop. But no, our inspectors were so jealous that the man who saved his life decided to punish them. Now, that's what hurts our people to see from one side of Zdravko Maric who has sinned over the principle of public duty and doesn't pay any punishment, no punishment has been paid, entertained on the back of an entrepreneur in Moscow, which is, of course, the vast majority of our citizens can't afford to sleep, but to imagine that the scene of a minister sitting on the shoulders of a single entrepreneur's pussy, I think it's an unprecedented scene on the political scene of the EU, meaning in some countries that we consider to have some democracy developing, etc., I'm not saying maybe in some other countries where it's not yet at that level, there may be such scenes, but such scenes in the EU can't be seen. He does not pay any punishment and to a man who is sick, a man who is for one, or for a woman who is for one Margarette, because she has not simply arrived to issue her own account, she is being shut down by a local. And then a legitimate question arises for the vast majority of our citizens whether HDZ is doing this on purpose with a political trade to have a repressive apparatus, that it can affect whom it is pressured, not pressured. Never before has such a prominent political official been in the position of a state inspector, ever. What's it got to be about now? Probably a) because it is torn within the HDZ in the city of Zagreb that Prgomet inherits Mikulić and that there is a normal transition in the party and no. 2 That it can be decided later on who will be under political pressure through inspection. And we spent hundreds of hours in this Croatian Assembly because of HDZ, Andrija Mikulić, Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandic. Which is why colleagues and colleagues have not spent so much time solving the problem of minimum pensions in the Republic of Croatia that should be at least at 75% for full-time average wage employment in the Republic of Croatia. Hundreds of thousands of our pensioners look at this Assembly and wonder why Andrija Mikulić and HDZ are more important than them, which is why we do not discuss them, which is why we do not solve their problems. Which is why we have not also created a certain legal framework here, legislation to prevent hundreds of thousands of our youth from leaving the Republic of Croatia each day and to crack Ireland, Germany, Austria instead of building their lives here. That's not what we're talking about, that's what we don't have here, that's what we're talking about here, and when the opposition proposes HDZ laws, it doesn't allow them to be discussed, and when we gather 30 signatures and give a debate about reforms that the government doesn't have at all, then it's pushing into tiny nights and there's an incident situation like that that happened a week ago. So what makes the citizens wonder, why is Andrija Mikulić, Milan Bandic and Andrej Plenkovic more important than hundreds of thousands of our emigrating from Croatia? What makes them more important than our pensioners living with no pensions? How can you ladies and gentlemen not even think about how our pensioners survive? These are not European values, you want to satisfy yourself. This is the sole purpose of these laws that we have seen here 20 and more, which went for the satisfaction of Andrej Mikulić HDZ, Andrej Plenkovic and Milan Bandic. Just as you think that in the next election, HDZ will in itself receive votes even though nothing works and has done nothing for the retired, nor for the young, nor for those who live honestly from their work. So you haven't done anything in the last year and a half two days and you're looking for some trust with but to me candidates in the European elections to give you the citizens of Bianca, you won't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137580	We have one replica, Comrade Sagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137581	Thank you, dear colleague Maras, so this is about committing a part of the violation of an exceptional and obvious social danger that directly undermines the stability and fundamental meaning of the tax system arrangements with directly harmful social consequences for the stability of the total tax system of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, a criminal act directly aimed at the tax invasion of broader scales, the illegal treatment of obvious social harmful meanings and consequences, which undermines the legal order of the Republic of Croatia directly and deeply, the tax system as a whole and the financial stability of the entire country, and endangers the financing of public needs, thereby the functioning of society as a whole. This is not from the verdict of the former prime minister, this is from the solution of one photographer in Nasice, so there is a tax press in Nasice or general inspection must be proportionate to the initiation and therefore I say the tax administration has data, if this photographer has a huge wealth that he can't prove then let it be a punishment, but not for 50 lips he didn't betray.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137582	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137583	Thank you very much, Mr. Sagar. You've said everything to this verdict. That verdict is probably resolved in a year. The HDZ president extended his trial for 10 and more years to end up in prison for those things that, on behalf of the Croatian government, HDZ worked then as president and prime minister. 10 years and more. A photographer due to 50 lipes gets fines at that time, takes his hard-earned assets, closes his place, and disables his constitutional category so he can work and feed his family. When you are the president of the HDZ and of the government on behalf of the HDZ, then you stretch out and you receive for me insufficient penalties, minimum penalties for misdemeanors and evils you have done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137584	We're going to an individual debate now, dear colleague Culey, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137585	Your Honor, when the former entrepreneurship and craft minister speaks of customs, inspections, controls, penalties, justice and justice, and then I would call it chaos control. Why would a man like Mikulic be the chief inspector, for what? So that one address can be addressed who is responsible for the failures and failures of the service, not as in the former system, and also in yours when you were a minister, that no one knew who was responsible. When you're crying over 50 lips and punishments to entrepreneurs as former minister, I don't know how well you've contributed to your portfolio, but I'll read about how this portfolio of yours worked back then and what the legacy of that same resor you've made during your ministry, what it looked like. Exclusively, the Super Super Club, without work permits and conditions of fire protection at the Zagreb Super Night Club at 3:30 during the theme evening, the thematic evening, 4 people were more easily injured confirmed by police, many condemned, and President Kolinda G. Kitarović appealed to refrain from commenting on the motives of the attack until the end of the investigation so that tensions in the public were not raised, and tensions were raised by the same chaos creators who still control chaos in this free Croatia when they mark something that was wrong, which was wrong and what was wrong. And they do it like this, says one of the club's visitors, I just wanted to get out of the club I didn't dare because of the stampede that was created the only way out was in those same narrow stairs, and they were chaos, uncontrollable chaos. Super not a nightclub but is officially registered as the space of the citizens' association. What citizens? Those who are always on the call where the place is, in the square, around, protest only on them important topics. Or the Association Photo Judge Katran, imagine the name Katran, whose president is a D.K. the space of the so-called Super Super nightclub does not have any working conditions, and the Household Activity Act, in particular, the Regulation on the fulfilment of minimum and technical conditions, has been established which rules and conditions must be met in order to allow space from the competent office of the City of Zagreb's economy to meet the minimum and technical conditions for work, which in this case did not happen. Super has no work permit, no solution to meet MT and other conditions, works contrary to all legislation in the Republic of Croatia. All relevant inspections, services but also the Ministry of Tourism of the Republic of Croatia are familiar with this case and have done absolutely nothing. What's the problem? The problem is that the inspections transfer responsibility to each other. That's why because of more inspections that transfer responsibility to each other has no responsibility as well as in the former state, no one is responsible. And you know who's responsible, the one who created that chaos. The tourism ministry does not give any answers on the illegal pursuit of catering activities, and the area continues to work regularly, performs its activities, turns millions of kuna cash, without any kuna tax paid. That's how it worked in your time and when there was no control, no control and where the chaos creator made it possible for these and such associations to work until today. It says the entrance charge is for a ticket issued without fiscalised bills, and it is known that you were against the fiscalisation introduced by your minister Linic. Which is why, precisely because this is considered a mandatory donation for people who are not even members of the association. On occasion, individual persons, i.e. guests and catering facilities, shall be taken data for identity cards and entered in the application for membership in the association. So if an inspection would come, then they are considered members of that same association although it is clear to all that they are only supposed members of an association that actually carries out catering activities, etc., etc., it is a lot of what is stated, which are irregularities, irregularities that no one controlled for only one reason that there was no control and there was no responsibility for this disorder. The controlled chaos and mess that you made possible with your laws. And now that someone's trying to be responsible and to monitor your chaos and mess, what's being respected, that he came from one party. So anyone, not Mikulic, could have come to try to establish work in this mess that you, too, have allowed to be in your term. Why weep over the fate of an entrepreneur who hasn't fiscalized an account? For what? If it wasn't a crowd at the facility, if he could issue an account, if the cash register was right, which is why he wouldn't get a warning, which is why he wouldn't talk to the inspector to correct that mistake. The mistake is the biggest and I'll tell you when the inspections are sent controlled from the end... Especially when it comes to major events such as Vinkovci autumns, such as church years, such as cyrbies, fastings and others when inspectors are sent to a crowd of people, into a crowd of believers, and to charge on the stand one auctionary heart for which no bill has been issued, just because there is a big crowd in Maria Bistrica and then the inspector gets a warrant to go into the crowd and to charge at the stand for a craftsman who makes the bidding hearts for one kuna, two, five, irrelevant or 10 that he could not get through the register in time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a controlled chaos, not what this government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137586	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of fellow Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137587	Thank you very much. Mr. President, my colleague Culey hurt the Rules of Procedure, he said clearly a lie, that I was against something that the government I was sitting in was bringing, it's just practically impossible, and I'm asking you to react when you hear such a statement, but this was one of the most embarrassing performances, but I'm going to explain it in the replica. He attacked people who because of their diversity were attacked with tear gas and now he accuses them that they were to blame for what happened because they were in a club. Not attacking the savage [[Intruder President: Time's up, please.]] or those attackers who attacked them there in 2017. [[Intruder president: colleague Maras!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137588	I'm now giving you my first warning since you don't respect what he's saying to you as chairman for the second time, and I'm asking you not to do it. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here, you have the replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137589	Thank you very much. Mr. Steve, this is what you're all...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137590	Comrade Maras, you have now received a second warning and you are losing your right to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137591	For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137592	Please, have a seat. Because you're provoking, we don't call ourselves names here, we call ourselves deputies by last name, and we don't do circus work in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137593	So, what's this all about, what's it about, somebody telling me, Mr. Goran, what would I get mad about? Well, that's no provocation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137594	Comrade Maras, there is a common practice as we speak here at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137595	It doesn't say anything, sir. It's a name. It's no shame to call a gentleman by name.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137596	No, it's not working here, it's not practice here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137597	There are hundreds of examples of this. I'm called Mrs. Ljubice, Mr. Branko, Mr. Schucker, I've never been Ivan, but I was saying, Mrs. Ljubice, why didn't you warn me, what difference does it make? [[Intruder president: colleague Maras.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137598	Comrade Maras, I beg you not to make a circus at the Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137599	Well, I don't, I said Mr. Steve.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137600	No, you work, neatly, you keep going beyond what's prescribed by the Rules of Procedure. Continue now, I will allow you to speak but I warn you to stick to the order of usual practice and how we operate in the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137601	Mr. Steve, I'm asking you to make...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137602	Comrade Maras, are you deliberately challenging now? ... I ask you to treat MPs as usual in the Croatian Assembly, which is a respected colleague, last name, etc., we will not be called names here. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Go ahead, and I warn you not to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137603	So wait, but what's the shame? What's a shame?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137604	It's not a shame, it's not a practice. There's a certain one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137605	So don't impose your practice on me, Mr. President. You have no right to do that. You have the right to do whatever you want by the Rules of Procedure, but you have no right to tell me how I will treat myself if it is within the limits of decency. Call someone Mr. Gordan to tell you, what's rude?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137606	No, it's not, you won't do it because it's the destruction of that practice and those achieved standards of decency that exist here in the Croatian Parliament. We're not gonna call ourselves names, and I'm asking you to hold on to it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137607	Can you give me back those 10 seconds now? Please. Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Culey, what you've just said is a great shame. In 2017, at the Super Super Club, there was a savagery where they came across representatives of the LGBT community with tear gas. And you've now transferred responsibility for this incident to those who have been attacked because of their diversity and you justify it by the lack of a club technically like this or like that. It's a shame what you're doing, instead of insisting on such savages sanctioning themselves and removing themselves from our society for re-treatment, for punishment, for anything, to attack our fellow citizens who are by something different from them with tear gas, shamefully, Mr. Culley. On the other hand, Super, Super and Katran are bright spots of the cultural scene of the city of Zagreb and should be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137608	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137609	Dear colleagues, Maras, Katran, Močvara, Blato, Mt., LGBT or any other I am not interested except in the part where they pay their obligations in this country. Which you and I and everyone here are getting paid. Isn't that right? The fact that someone threw tear gas at his soul on his responsibility. But given the creators, the chaos that we see every day in Croatian society, we can say that this chaos in the club is also great, super, possibly controlled, with certain syringes, which I have met in my previous life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137610	Second replica, fellow Misic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137611	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleague Culej, the inspections certainly in the state need and inspections should do their job, they are a need. As I did as a craftsman, I met with a lot of inspections, of course that punishments, certain crafts, certain companies should be applied safely, but there are sometimes justified and unwarranted reasons. Imagine now a store, where the Internet stops and the party wants to buy something and doesn't work for an hour. You need to close your shop and you can't do it. But that's not the question, the question is when to track a craftsman through a tax application, how much he reported, how much he gave, how it works and how it works, that's what the IRS have. If we had kept accounts in this country, and I'm talking until now, we'd have been charged, a lot, a lot more taxes, of course, that we weren't even these guarantees, which, which certain parties gave to the Uljanica, we can see how controlled... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137612	Thank you, reply to the line, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137613	Dear fellow Misic, you as a longtime entrepreneur, recognised in our county, who employs more workers, who live than what you have ensnared, created, together with your associates, make competition, just like this, super, super, unregistered clubs, who do not report what they do and what they do. But they're super cool, you know why? It's only because they're responding to someone because they're under their conductor's baton. And you no matter how much traffic you report, you'll never roll with the creators, like with, who created super super... Like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137614	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137615	Mr. President, I just have to react, 238 is hurt again. Kolega Culej said he is super competitive to Mr. Misic, if it is known that Mr. Misic has a TV and technique service, he cannot compete with a club that promotes culture and has certain activities in the City of Zagreb. So that's impossible, the TV service, can't compete with the club on Zagreb's Trnje, Katran and super cool. So the Rules of Procedure got hurt, that's obvious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137616	Of course there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure and you get two warnings, a loss of words you have, that's clear to you. You complain to the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, so they'll explain why. And the last replica of the esteemed colleague, Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137617	Thank you very much. Comrade Culey, you asked yourself in your debate, which is what the distinguished representative Maras as minister did in the government, which we remember what they contributed to, so that today they would deliver here and call them all for inaction or for bad watches, etc. I personally remember that he was several times in conflict of interest ruled, that he visited Las Vegas with his friends, spent some money, I remember that he promised to open 70,000 new jobs, pardon 50, and closed 70,000 trades, and I remember that in the end today, that he regretted seeing everything he did as a minister, today becoming James Bond, who saves the world, and I guess the European Parliament too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137618	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137619	Fellow Boric, often those who knew how to leave some clues behind, who were not honored to return to clean up after themselves, but in no way can they succeed, because there are always witnesses of the times and witnesses of the past, there are always some who know what happened, what happened, and besides, it is written in some files, books, in the memories of those who were concerned, and thus our dear colleague, cannot possibly clean up after himself, no matter how much he was here among us, no matter where he went, that trail that he left behind, as many who left behind in the Croatian state, will have to leave their dirty thresholds at that time, even in front of his conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137620	Thank you. We've come to the end of the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Customs Service Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 612. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, and I am voting on the final proposal for that law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes 101 for and 4 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Customs Service Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137623	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. Here we are today ahead of you with the final proposals of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, memberships in tourist communities and tourist tax. Thus, the strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 as one of the measures is to re-establish the systems of tourist communities and build an efficient system of management of tourist destinations. Following the above, the tourism community system needs to be revised, rationalised, not only against the implementation of measures of strategies and the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 but also in order to increase their overall efficiency, in particular at regional and local level, in order to ensure all conditions for the systematic implementation of destination management tasks and to ensure a sufficient source of funding. In 1991, therefore, the first Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism was adopted in the Republic of Croatia, where the current system of tourist societies and alliances was replaced by a system of tourist communities. After 14 years of functioning of tourist communities, a new Act on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism was adopted in 2008 which, among other things, changed certain forms of tourist communities, as well as the way in which the bodies of tourist communities were formed and operated. A total of 312 tourist communities were registered in the Republic of Croatia by April 2019 following the provisions of the applicable law. So some of the fundamental changes in the bill are as follows. The establishment of a system of tourist communities according to the model of destination management of organisations. In this context, the system of tourist communities is restructured through association and rationalisation within the system, with the application of the principle of financial self-sufficiency in a way that promotes the association of tourist communities, as well as the establishment of tourist communities for the area of several units of local or regional (regional) self-government through the allocation of financial resources. Furthermore, redefining is the task of tourist communities with respect to the principle of self-sufficiency in order to enable them to perform normative organisational and financial functions according to the principle of destination management, so new tasks of tourist communities are defined exclusively as operational and include product development, information, research, as well as distribution. Then, the tasks of the regional tourism community are focused on operational activities with certain strategic elements and through 4 main groups of tasks, strategic planning and development, the management of the tourism system, information and research and marketing. And then, the tasks of the Croatian Tourist Board, as national tourism organisations, focus primarily on the implementation of marketing and promotion of tourism at national level. The possibility of determining the president of the local and regional tourism community by the municipal chief or mayor and mayor, depending on the local and regional (regional) self-government unit, for which the tourist community is established. The time limit is limited to the period during which the president of the tourist community can represent the tourist community in case the tourist community has not yet elected a director, so for the longest six months. The exception to this rule is HTZ and regional tourist communities, where no time-limit is foreseen, a limited period in which the president can represent the tourist community until the election of directors. Next, limiting the share of staff's gross salaries in total incomes, the tourist community to 40%, and this does not include employees' salaries in tourist information centres. Afterwards, professionalisation of the functions of the director of the tourist community through the introduction of the 4-year term of director to ensure continuity in the performance of professional activities, as well as the achievement of a higher level of responsibility in the performance of the director. The existing tourist communities of places that have already been established are not abolished but continue to act in accordance with provisions relating to local tourist communities established for the area of a local self-government unit. So we move on to the law, the final proposal of the Law on memberships in tourist communities, and here we have the next newspaper. The membership law in tourist communities, it has not been significantly changed, after about 10 years, since the adoption of 2008. The proposal for this law, which regulates the tourism community system, will determine the tasks of the tourist communities differently. In order to ensure the material conditions for the implementation of the modified scope of the business of certain levels of tourist communities, it was necessary in a different way to regulate the allocation of tourist membership funds or to modify the current allocation of funds. In order to reduce non-tax administrations, the fee rate has been systematically reduced over the past 3 years, so in 2015 it was reduced by 15%, 2016 by 5%, which certainly led to economic recovery and, in the current bill, we also overlook the reduction of the burden on the economy over 5%. For tourism communities in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, membership fee is the main and the highest income, and therefore special attention has been paid to the calculation of membership fees in tourist underdeveloped areas. The papers introduced by this law, which will simplify the process of calculating membership fees and submitting TZ forms, will create a better business environment due to administrative discharge and reduction of business costs. Therefore, tourist classes are abolished and membership rates will no longer be determined depending on the tourist class. The number of rates for the billing of membership fees is reduced from 28 to 5 so this is a reduction in the administrative burden of the economy, a significant reduction. A part of the payment of a membership fee is deleted, the payment of a membership fee for as much as 21 activities is deleted, and a part of the debtors reduces the coverage, the reduction of non-taxed duty and the reduction of administrative burden on the economy. One big newspaper in this law is, the bonds of payment of the membership fee become and the banks in part of the revenue and fees and fees and it is one important newspaper in this bill. The funds collected from banks will be allocated according to the number of residents of the municipality, city or county for which the tourist community was founded, which is a fairer distribution of membership funds. So, this specifically means, as regards the income of tourist membership from banks, that it will be collected and literally brought down to absolutely all levels and all tourist communities in Croatia, which we consider an excellent and encouraging measure, mainly for less tourist-developed areas. Special attention has been paid to undeveloped areas, so legal and natural persons carrying out activities in assisted areas, hence the development indices of the 1-4th group, will pay the membership fee reduced by 20%. So, in some of the other changes that we made between the two readings and the administrations that you proposed and potentiated in your discussions, so we also introduced a fund for the tourist underdeveloped areas and continents of 9%. of these funds, funds will be allocated over a period of 5 years to regional tourist communities that generate revenue of less than 500 thousand kuna per year as a difference to 500 thousand kuna. After 5 years, the funds will be allocated to tourist communities and regional and local areas in undeveloped tourist areas through public competitions, and 2% for associated tourist communities has been renamed the Association Tourist Communities Fund. So, specifically about this fund for so-called. We have a whole range of tourist communities in underdeveloped areas that have original incomes somewhere between 110 and 150,000 kuna, up to 200,000 kuna in that range. So from now on, from the entry into these laws, each of these tourist communities will start a year with 500,000 kunas of original incomes, which we consider to be a significant incentive and change of the model of co-financing of tourism communities or the development of continents and the development of less developed tourist areas. The tenants and OPGs submit a simpler TZ form and pay the membership fee in a flat-rate amount, the possibility of delivering data is introduced the basis for the calculation of the membership fee via the e-tax system. Newspapers dealing with the distribution of tourist membership funds are next. 2% of the funds are allocated to HTZ's special account for projects and programmes of the associated tourist communities, regional tourist communities receive more funding from a new law to 15% of the distribution so far was 10%, and the Croatian Tourist Board gets less funding, the new law gets 20%, and so far it was 25%. So there is very clear and our intensity that, apart from redefining our tasks and levels and decisions and decisions, we have decentralised and funds and generally through this whole model of legislation based on destination management and decentralisation, we want to give more significant powers and financial resources to lower levels because we believe that they can only be competitively developing their tourist destinations that would be ready to compete at global level today. All mentioned in this law are relieved of the economy by over 5%, it is important to stress that due to the change in the way in which the tourist membership fee is calculated and the increase in efficiency, the total income will be reduced in only one small part. The criteria for the funds, for the distribution of the Fund's tourism underdeveloped areas and continents and the United Tourist Communities Fund are prescribed by the minister by a regulation. It's the same change we made between the two readings. And we come to the third law or final proposal of the Tourist Tax Act. Therefore, the law has also not been significantly amended since the adoption of 2008. The proposal for a new law regulating the system of tourist communities will determine the tasks of tourist communities differently, as will the Law on memberships in tourist communities. In order to ensure material conditions for the implementation of the modified scope of the business of certain levels of tourist communities, it is necessary to regulate the distribution of tourist tax resources in a different way. Tourist tax is, as a rule, the highest source of tourism community income, so it is important to ensure continuity, as well as an increase in revenues financed by tourist communities and carry out their tasks, which is the intensity of this law. Some of the fundamental changes in the bill are the following. One of the main characteristics of the bill's proposal is decentralisation in decision-making. The decision goes down to regional county level. So the height of the tourist tax is no longer made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by the regulation, but the county congregations take responsibility for the development of their destinations and they decide on the height of the tourist tax, or the City of Zagreb. The way we will control and implement this procedure to be of maximum quality for tourism is that the Minister will by regulation bring the minimum and maximum amount of tourist tax, and within the minimum and maximum limits, the County Assembly of each county, or the City of Zagreb City Assembly, determines the amount of tourist tax in the previous opinion of the tourist communities, which is of course very important to us. Unless the County Assembly of the City of Zagreb decides on the height of the tourist tax, the minimum amount of tourist tax prescribed by the Regulation shall apply. The decision on the amount of the tourist tax shall be taken by 31 January of the current year for the following year, i.e. for the following year, for a maximum period of two seasons, for a period of one period of time from 1 April to 30 September. Special attention has been paid to undeveloped areas, the development index 1 to 4 groups and offers them the possibility to determine the amount of tourist tax in the amount of up to 30% reduction compared to the amount of tourist tax established by the regional tourist board of the tourist community, but that is only if they wish to do so. 2.5% of the funds that are paid to the special account of the Croatian Tourist Board for tourist underdeveloped areas are now called the Tourism Undeveloped Areas and Continent Fund, 2% for the associated tourist communities renamed the Association Tourist Board. The criteria for the allocation of funds of the Fund to underdeveloped areas and continents and the United Tourist Communities Fund are prescribed by the minister by a regulation. Part of the funds belonging to the local tourist community and up to 40% can be used to finance projects that are of paramount importance and to co-finance projects from EU funds. Nautistics can pay a tourist tax per night and a cot, it's one newspaper, so far they can only pay in a cot for a vessel longer than 7 meters with built-in beds. The height of the sheets is also determined by the minister's rules so far by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That the inability for municipalities and cities to decide whether to introduce a tourist tax for sea and river cruisers so the collected funds belong to municipalities and cities 85% of municipalities or cities and counties 15% and are used to improve public, tourist infrastructure and for projects and programmes of sustainable development. This is one big newspaper that we have brought in, so it was initial and was a proposal from the Ministry of Tourism which, in the meantime, we withdrew in the first reading because of the need for further consultations with the Ministry of the Sea, with cities and municipalities and, of course, with the port administrations in order to operationally come up with the best way of implementing this, and I must commend all the cities, the port cities that participated in these talks and the adoption of this plan, and where the cities of Dubrovnik and Split, which were most prominent and supported the initiative, therefore, that the tourist tax for cruises in international vessels can be introduced. It is very important for me to decide whether or not to introduce a tourist tax for cruisers to the units of local self-government to decide on their own, and if they decide to do so, too, they decide how much that amount will be. At the same time, one newspaper on this income or distribution is that 85% of the total income remains a unit of local self-government, exclusively for investment in infrastructure projects, tourism infrastructure and possibly a sustainability programme of tourism, and we know that our major tourist destinations have already gone to a large part in significant programmes of this particular type. And 15% of course goes to the county, the county also to finance infrastructure and similar projects. So, the paper is that the allocations of tourist fees are the following. 2% of the funds are allocated to a special HTZ account for projects and programmes of the associated tourist communities, and this is one of the measures of destination management, so we financially want to encourage all those who want to co-operate together and together create one logical whole, a tourist destination, and if, as such, they have both additional incomes and access to one special fund. Regional tourist communities receive more funding from a new law, so 15% compared to the 10% so far. The Croatian tourist community is getting less funding, so the new law gives it 20% in terms of the current 25%. The paper is also about the distribution of tourist tax, 65% of local tourist communities have so far been 40. Regional tourist communities are getting more funding through a new law, getting 15% by now. The Croatian tourist community is getting less funding through a new law, so 20% so far has received 25% and national parks that have so far been financed by 10% are being deleted. In the end, therefore, one package of tourism laws which is indeed one of the right reforms of the tourism system where we followed the models of the best and best quality tourist destinations. Otherwise, this legal framework that we currently have in Croatia comes from the '80s. The year of the last century of the Central European countries, which began in the early 2000s, began to significantly change at all levels, and it would be good indeed that this model of destination management, therefore, is a new system-based model of tourism management, that we have brought it long before, but in any case, one absolutely needs a newspaper because we do not want to brand Croatia as just a tourist destination. The competitiveness of Croatian tourism can be raised exclusively in a way that we brand and create our recognizable destinations that compete in world markets as such. So, we are talking about logical tourist units that are already in a certain way and are market-recognizable in the Republic of Croatia, which as such with new tools that this law allows them, with new financial resources that grant them will be able to manage their tourist destination much more autonomously. We absolutely believe that we are ready for this kind of decentralisation in the tourist communities system, we want to allow them to legally develop their destinations in accordance with the tourism policy they believe in and which they develop at regional level or at local level, and through this decentralisation we also raise awareness of the public in all our destinations how important it is that they participate in the decision-making process and how important it is for all of them, so service providers, that they are, in the management of their tourist communities or the management of their tourist destinations. We have also sent a very strong message to the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities that we are doing economic disbursement, not only financially but also administratively, which is particularly important to our real sector. We also sent a very clear message and a complete change in the way of modeling and understanding of tourism on the continent because the proposal for these laws has put continental tourism and development of the continents in a significant focus with new funds created, with new financial resources that are being sent down, with the distribution, so we took from the top of the system and dropped to lower levels of significant income, and this is, in particular, in the case of county tourist communities, it means that around their revenues for you only these changes and redistributions will grow about 40 to 50%. Which is indeed one big positive step, and with these means they will also carry out new, new powers and tasks that we bring down to them and will take full care of tourism in the area of their region, or in the area of their county. I thank you and stand at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137624	I thank Mr. Secretary of State. We have a few replicas, dear colleague Ante Bacic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137625	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected secretary of state with assistants, I am only interested in the short question about this package of tourism laws, how much it will affect rural tourism more specifically in Dalmatia, especially here we look at the part of the Split-Dalmatia County where Zagora is already operating as a cluster, but we think that definitely both by and tourist communities but also by the ministries should spend more money on developing such destinations because this is the future and increasing potential of Croatian tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137626	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137627	I thank you for the question, we are just focusing our development on.../incomprehensible... tourism and rural areas, so, as I was just about to point out, we have several different new funds. First, we decentralise much larger funds at the county level which has more resources for local tourist communities, then we have the United Tourist Communities Fund just took advantage of a good example of the Dalmatian Zagora that works on the principle of an associated logical tourist destination, and as such, it will have access to a specially formed new fund of 2%, which is located in the Tourist Tax Act and a tourist membership. Also significant new incomes that occur in the Fund for tourism underdeveloped areas, so we have practically the total amount of funds collected in the Fund for the tourism underdeveloped areas is distributed in 100% of these tourist communities, which has not been the case so far. Up until now, perhaps less than 1/3 of these funds have fallen to a lower level. Therefore, significant new funds and significant new management tools.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137628	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Ante Babic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137629	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State, although there has also been talks in the first reading on the Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities, here I would once again ask for the directors of tourist communities themselves, so Article 81 of this proposal, the final draft of the law in transitional and final provisions is related to Article 22(5), which actually states that the directors of tourist communities for the longest 6 months, the right and obligations of the directors of the tourist community referred to in Article 3 of this article are the president of the tourist community. Have you thought about keeping their term for four years, or are you going to do something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137630	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137631	The reason we put the six-month provisions in place is very simple. In fact, we currently have in Croatia over 80 tourist communities that do not have a director of the tourist community and this status has been standing for a long time. Why is that? There are probably a lot of reasons, but since there is no legal obligation for the time period of appointment of directors, then the job is done by the presidents, therefore, by the mayors and mayors. We want to send a very clear message that, if there is a tourist community, it must be professionally managed, it must have its professional services and this law forces all tourist communities very clearly, that they have a 6-month deadline to appoint a director. If they do not appoint a director within 6 months, this tourist community is shutting down and it will be one tool with which we will definitely motivate them to form and that there is a professional in the system of this tourist community, not that we are dealing with it at some other level.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137632	Thank you for your response. The next replica, dear colleague Davor Vlaovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137633	Thank you, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State. It is good to talk more about continental tourism, the development of continental tourism, investment in tourism communities on the continent, but I do not think that it is enough to help tourism communities in the continent to attract tourists. One of the models that we at HSS propose to co-finance travel agencies per guest brought to a tourist destination in the continent. This was done before, and it gave good results, I don't know why it gave up because surely this way through the visibility of the work, on the branding of Slavonia, here in Berlin, Osijek County was, not enough, it should be helped to sell these packages for the continent, and it can only be if we co-financed it by the guest brought in. And the craftsman's chamber had an objection, especially for those craftsmen who pay taxes per pausal that they didn't have to pay total income membership fees, but only for that part of tourism income and related tourism, and not for the total income, I think we should specify that more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137634	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137635	Here, as you heard, a significant focus has just been put on the development of continental tourism. As regards your first proposal, which you mentioned, we already have the programmes that we are implementing, let's say, one concrete measure that is implemented at the level of the Croatian Tourist Board, is therefore encouraging the destination management of companies that are offering programmes for the development of such areas, where they are directly, exclusively for these programmes in these areas are co-financed significant funds. As for the presentation of the regional principle or representation of a touristic region, county and so on, you mentioned Berlin, that's exactly how it is. It was presented by Slavonia, we have a very large focus on presenting Slavonia as a tourist region and destination which and as it appears now in this tourist space with days of Croatian tourism that we are working and planning this year in Slavonia we will also further place it on the map, and in particular, at the level of HTZ is co-financed with over 600 thousand kuna, so one strategy of master plan development Slavonia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137636	The next replica, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137637	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State. I was very surprised when you stated that there are 314 tourist communities in Croatia. You see, this law proposes new provisions in membership. A key question arises, for me as an economist and all the people who think in that sense. What's the membership fee for? Watch out, what's the membership fee? Tourism is the most developed in Croatia and is growing at the highest rate. If there is a need for a tourist community somewhere, let them make a living on the market. Therefore, membership fees should be abolished, tourist communities must no longer be financed by membership fees. If there's a need somewhere, let's keep it on the market, so let's get out of here. Instead of paying membership fees to tourist communities, let the money be rerouted towards the OPGs, a farm that is completely neglected and we will be against such a law because it solves nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137638	I thank my colleague Lovrinović. Answer, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137639	Your Honor. It is very important to stress that tourist membership is of particular importance for undeveloped areas and the continent, given the area where relatively few tourist nights are carried out, there is no tourist tax and the only income these tourist communities practically have, so over 80% on average income on the continent and in rural areas, tourist communities are just tourist membership fees and there are no such tourist membership fees, and these tourist communities could simply not exist. Although tourist membership may be one of even a tourist tax is perhaps one specific situation because a large part of the taxpayers who pay it are generally acceptable to them because they see that these funds are completely returned to the system, they are not going somewhere in the state apparatus, but are returning to a system of tourism that is once again managed by tourism and which develops, branding and thus generates new guests and again, new revenues, and is relieved by this law, again in accordance with the action plan of disbursement...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137640	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Grozdana Peric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137641	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with Associates. In the Law on Tourist Communities, it is very good that it is finally established and preferred to join the tourist communities on the principle of destination management. In addition, it is also significant that there were many small communities that could not provide certain quality services or develop tourism, and it is also very good that you limited the cost of salaries where it is now 40% of the total revenues of the tourist community for the workers of the tourist community, but this does not apply to those who work in tourist information centres. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137642	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137643	Yes, that is exactly what you very well detected, so the destination management and the model by which we created these laws is just predicting with time the reduction of tourist communities, but in finding the bill we wanted to do so in one way in which we will encourage cooperation, in which we will motivate them to join together. We didn't want to give the law to shut down. Why is that so important? Because, simply, if there is no minimum level of cooperation and the desire to cooperate at a lower level, whatever we prescribe by law, it will never happen. And that is why we have created a fund for the associated tourist communities where we say if you think and want to develop a tourist destination together, you have access to special, new incomes, only you and no one else. And we haven't just done it in the law, we've done it in the past year and how we've done it in the field, so you could notice by the media shows that we've already done the merger of the tourist community of the Imot region, Gorski Kotar, the island of Hvar, now Ravni kotari, so Slavonia, branding Slavonia as a tourist destination, so these are the things we've already spent on the ground, preparing for the next law... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137644	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State. I welcome the decision to conduct a tourist tax on ships on circular voyages. I know that there have been different views on the introduction of the tourist tax itself, but I also know because on several occasions with the Mayor of Dubrovnik, Mr Mato Frankovic, and also the town of Split, I have talked about the fact that it is good to introduce the island tax itself and it is good that the law provides for a final position on this by city councils or municipal councils, places, ports in which ships sail on circular voyages. This is extremely good given that the city's infrastructure is in a position to contribute to a better feeling of tourists coming out on circular trips and in this way cities are exposed to certain costs incurred by tourists arriving on those ships, so it is extremely good and I believe that it will also welcome all units of local self-government in whose area are ports where these ships sail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137646	Thank you. State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137647	Thank you for your comment. Yes, you've just detected it well. Decentralisation absolute and I must really thank and praise all port cities, mostly large cities, Dubrovnik, Split, Zadar, which have helped us to make this decision and their proposals in any way, but what is particularly important to stress about is that we are income from this potential tourist tax go directly to cities, or directly to the county, do not go through a system of tourist communities. And we said very clearly in the law, infrastructure, if that's your problem, you solve it with this. If the traffic is a problem, resolve that with this, if it is a public tourist infrastructure, you can also solve it and in this way we want to send a message and, of course, sustainable development programmes, and it is well known that Dubrovnik is already implementing a very quality programme of sustainable tourism development. It can also be financed from the fund and it is an excellent message for the future of Croatian tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137648	Thank you. Next replica, respected colleague Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137649	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I would like to thank this occasion and thank the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who has changed the article in relation to the first reading. 73. Law on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, you have provided support for the continuation of the tourist communities of Jezera, Betina, Zlarin, Krapanj, Brodarica and Grebastica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137650	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137651	Thank you for your comment. Yeah, between the two readings, we've done a whole series of consultings and we've done it before. We had a little bit of different thinking given the model of destination management predicts creating destinations, so not just one city or municipality, that I don't speak places, but one broader tourist unit that as such can compete on the world market. But what is definitely the case in most of these tourist communities, places, that they are financially self-sufficient and that they have good programs for the development of these tourist sites, so we decided to maintain the status that they have, hence giving them the status of the local tourist community, ie, but at the same time legally it will no longer be possible to set up such tourist communities, and since we have conducted consultations and talks with them, they are very interested in one of this approach of destination management or association as we have foreseen in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137652	Thank you. The next replica, dear colleague of Tomislav Sauch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137653	Mr. Secretary of State with Associates. I'd like to ask you for an explanation. In fact, in the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities, banks and telecoms disappeared from the first group, meaning the first membership fee group, i.e. The rates and rates will no longer pay their membership fee at 0.16% but both are now in the third group and will pay at a rate of 0.09%. I don't understand how there's been this change between two readings since that's exactly what your optimism is about to be about, that's what membership is about. membership fee i.e. The tourism community's income continues to be charged with the fact that it is two powerful industries, I wonder if there has been any lobbying or how such a change has occurred.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137654	Thank you. The answer, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137655	I appreciate the question. So the answer is very simple. In the bill of law and all the laws we implement, specifically at the level of the Ministry of Tourism must go and be in line with the plan of discharging the economy of the Republic of Croatia and in our proposal for the law, so we have to find a model exclusively to unload the economy, not to burden some other activities or economic activities accordingly. So these were, the ones you mentioned were therefore the only two economic activities or activities that we had foreseen in the first draft of the law further, which after consulting at the level of the entire ministry and with colleagues from other ministries were concluded that we could not go into raising the economic burden but that all our measures and the final proposal could go exclusively in the direction of discharge, so the telecoms remained at the same level as they were, and only the banks were introduced as new. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137656	Thank you for your response. Dear fellow Bully has come to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137657	Vice President, Your Honors Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. He would ask for a break on behalf of the club MOST if we could consult again and send a message to you and the public that these existing three bill proposals are nothing new but a beauty that will not bring real changes in favour of the development of tourism in the cities of Croatia, especially in the continental part, or in rural areas. While we boast here about the successes of tourism, significant legal changes, at the same time in the pearls of our tourist offer that should be on all the world's websites, in all the media, I keep an example of the Krka River and NP Krka. Today, this factory DIV i.e. Yesterday, two days ago, chemicals, poisons, everything that is done at the DIV factory of fat people who also owns and shipyards Split has been poured out in Krk and is now heading towards NP Krka. The same thing is in NP Plitvice where the sewers are open, 2 million visitors, open sewers, caves are propped, smelling everything. It's unspeakable. All the world's television and German have informed it. Are we protecting our pearls? Our waters, our river Cetina, from Neretva to Krka, our Dalmatian Zagora, or are we turning it into a waste dump? Did we protect farmers in this area so we can boast about how we grow and agriculture of our small OPGs? Instead of growing tourism, we are growing importing, importing food, harmful, whether we have protected the economic belt except that our fisherman earns at sea when selling in the tourist season or because of the fascist Tajani we are not allowed to do so, so we are essentially making decisions in the interest of the Italians and not our fisherman. What have we done, gentlemen, to remain a fisherman, peasant and heavy in the Republic of Croatia? Nothing but a membership fee, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137658	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. I'll have a break by 11 o'clock and 20 minutes. It's 11:00 P.M. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:21 A.M.]] Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club esteemed colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137660	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear Secretary of State, dear assistant ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this package of laws governing the system of tourist communities, the Law on tourist communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, the Law on membership in tourist communities and the Law on tourist tax. The strategy for the development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 has just set up a reconstruction of tourist communities systems and the construction of efficient management of a tourist destination. In order to implement the conclusions of the strategy for development of tourism by the Republic of Croatia by 2020 as well as to increase the overall effectiveness of tourism communities' systems, especially at regional and local destination levels where tourism activity is taking place, it is necessary to revise and streamline the existing system of tourist communities. In doing so, increasing the efficiency of the tourism community system means ensuring all the preconditions for the systematic implementation of destination management tasks and, above all, the adoption of a package of laws governing the tourism community system and which would create these preconditions. The package of laws governing the tourism community system provides for the establishment of tourist communities according to the model destination management model of modern world systems such as Germany, France, Great Britain. The system of tourist communities is restructured through association and rationalisation within the system, with the application of the principle of financial self-sufficiency in a way that promotes the association of tourist communities as well as the establishment of a multi-units area of local or regional (regional) self-government through the allocation of financial resources. Special attention is paid to tourist underdeveloped areas and the new Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities and the Tourist Tax Act, financial instruments have been introduced. The Fund for tourism underdeveloped areas and continents and the Joint Tourism Communities will provide more transparent funding for both regional and local tourist communities in tourist underdeveloped areas and encourage the association of tourist communities. Also those who carry out their activities in assisted areas from the first to the fourth development groups, pay the membership fee reduced by 20%. Among other things, the solutions set out in those laws reduced the costs of the business of the economic operators due to a reduction in administrative burden and a simpler process of accounting and payment and membership and tourist tax. In addition, a large number of present-day taxpayers are no longer such as accounting services, activities, hair salons and the like. It is a great commendation to the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the esteemed views given in the debate. Indeed, the numerous proposals and remarks made during the first reading were considered so that, independently of this, it would stress whether it was a representative coming from the position, from the opposition, they were also considered and many were respected. When we talk about the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, a lot of controversy caused Article 73, where there were proposals in the first reading that would make it impossible for tourist communities to work, but all those comments that could be heard from the field and in these discussions were respected so that about 15 tourist communities that are extremely valuable and high-quality, will continue their work which gave support to their work and activities because in these places they primarily work on promoting their place and improving their tourist offer but thus contributes to the quality of life in the places of opening jobs related to hospitality and tourism and so forth. The Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism also adopted the proposal which was presented by our representative Kleman in front of the HDZ's club regarding the limited number of representatives of the individual members of the tourist community in such a way that the number of representatives of the individual member of the tourist community in the assembly of the tourist community is limited to 40% of the representatives in the assembly, instead of the draft law provided for 30%, and for the reason that large tourist entities in the unit of local self-government for which the local tourist community was established could be represented as adequately as possible. The proposal was also adopted to establish verticals in the process of harmonisation in the adoption of the programme of work of the tourist community in such a way as it is prescribed that local tourist communities in the process of adopting work programmes are obliged to coordinate and coordinate with the relevant regional regional county tourist community and regional county tourist communities with the Croatian Tourist Board for reasons of the systematic implementation of the work programme of tourist communities adopted at all levels of tourist communities. We also know that all of us who come from local self-government that this is the same way as the spatial plans are made and now the development strategies and the like. And it's good that those like I said strategy plans, so in this case, the work programmes of the tourist communities are in line with the higher order. A proposal has also been adopted regarding the possibility of extending the membership of tourist communities other than membership in international tourism organisations and membership in various gastro-organisations, sports organisations and other similar organisations in such a way that it is prescribed that tourist communities can also be members of related associations with international tourism organisations. There are proposals that are not accepted as a lack of time-limit for the conduct of HTZ's rights and duties by the president as well as the further existence of the Supervisory Board, however, the applicant explained in detail the reasons for its non-acceptance. Also in the Law on Memberships in Tourist Communities there were proposals, noting that large systems such as teleopers pay membership fees in proportion to where traffic is being made. Earlier in the meeting of the Assembly Committee on Tourism, the Secretary of State explained to us the way this will be resolved, although it should be said that some of these large systems are already paying for the very tourist communities in which income or traffic is happening. In the case of the Tourist Tax Act, decisions on the level of tourist tax are now being made by the County Assembly and the City Assembly of Zagreb can make a decision to reduce the aided areas. The tourism minister will prescribe the lowest and highest amount of tourist tax, introducing decentralisation in the decision-making process. We know that from this year on and regulated, that is, the obligation of the municipal or city councils to bring the amount of tax on renting rooms and apartments, which I think is extremely good and analogous, this is now going to be the height of the tourist tax and the height will be determined by the County Assembly. The law stipulates a different distribution of tourist fees in the nautical region, more remains at the local and regional level where tourist traffic is achieved 65% goes to the local tourist community, 15 regional and 20% to HTZ. In the opening presentation and from colleagues Bačić, we could hear great praises about the possibility that the tourist tax is now being paid by sea river cruisers in international traffic if the municipal or city councils decide and I think it will mean a great deal to those cities that are visited by these cruisers. There are great criticisms that as many of these guests are leaving in our midst, as many as the local self-government unit itself has, here is the possibility that through these provisions of the Law on the Tourist Community, these municipal or city councils decide how much to earn on this basis. Tourism records growth every year, for every year, not only can we say but we do have a record tourist year. Last year 2018, 19.4 million tourists, or arrivals, recorded 6.5% more than in the previous year. We had 106 million overnights, which is 4% more than in the previous year as well. However, there are new challenges ahead of us, new market situations, the Mediterranean and all together we must make our contribution either through these and similar legislative proposals but here is the appeal from this pay phone to be the best promoters of our environment, our Republic of Croatia not to be happening to us and not to do exactly what our colleague Bulj did just before when even some untrue data amounts to destroying and destroying and seeing what our tourist employees have been struggling to create and retain in our area for years. The HDZ Club will support all three proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137661	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next is counterpart Zeljko Lenart, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here's your colleague, Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137662	Dear Vice President, State Secretary with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The tourism community law in this form is about a law that framed quite well enough about tourist communities and the HSS Club will support this law on tourist communities. However, it is good that the Law on Tourist Communities is set up according to the principle of destination management. It is good that the law encourages the association of tourist communities, but I think that it should also work to bring this association together sometimes which is not exactly for the destination, I remember one example at the time when I was State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism when a certain number of tourist communities in Baranja joined and then one didn't want it and it was important for that destination because they had a port in Vienna. I also think that the interest of all tourist communities in the area of a wider destination is important to understand that we are like a very small country. During a visit to Russia, a Russian official told you goods in Croatia your capital is on the coast of the sea, which was strange to us at the time. But when you ask yourself how long it takes you from Zagreb to the coast of the Adriatic Sea, how long it takes you to reach Osijek, then you realize how small Croatia is today with the highways that we have today. I think the bigger problem with the tourist communities is their presidents. The president of the tourist community is legally the head of the unit of local or regional self-government, so the mayors, mayors and mayors. The problem is that these gentlemen often realize that the tourist community is their PR agency and then because they are financed by their budgets by the work of tourist communities they realize that tourist communities have to organise events to celebrate their persons and to make them work their entire year of campaign on this basis. Often, the presidents of the tourist communities are chasing the tourist agency. At the time, I was the Director of the Tourist Board in Sisak-Moslavina County and it was very difficult to explain to the mayor that the tourist community is not the one who brings guests, as the tourist agency does or can do. But it's been a long time, and the mayor didn't realize it. This excessive influence of leaders, units of local self-government, regional self-government damages the work of tourist communities because they have their influence on the directors of tourist communities to disrupt the work of the tourist community and this destination management according to which this Law on the work of tourist communities is going. I believe that perhaps in this law, the directors of tourist communities needed more independence from the leaders of local self-government units. It is the directors who are essentially leading the tourist community, who are developing a programme of work of the tourist community with workers working in the tourist community and they are essentially creating what the destination management in that destination will look like. Unless the mayor, mayor or mayor gets involved in this and he distributes funds for the events he wants to buy votes for the next election. The revenues of tourist communities in developed areas are far, far greater than undeveloped and very difficult to operate in underdeveloped areas if there is not enough money from the budget of these units of local self-government or regional self-government. Unfortunately again, we return to this dependence on the presidents who have the budgets of these units of local (regional) self-government and who dictate work, the pace of work of these tourist communities. Unfortunately, we are a country that is very much dependent on tourism revenues and every single one, and even the slightest earthquake, can bring us down significantly to be a significant, remethylative factor in the RS budget. So here we see what is now written in the media in Croatia, the return of Turkey, Greece, the prices they offer, they practically pay their way to the destination and give very much in the offer they offer to the guests. Whether we will feel it or not, it will show this year, I would not want to say it in advance, but tourism as a branch is very, very unstable and often often on it and the disorders that are happening cannot be done by the ministry with all its measures because often the desire of guests is very easy to apply because of the media that are very present today and which channel is very fast that some tourist country can either raise or destroy. The numbering statistics of guests arriving in Croatia are quite incorrect because they are trying to add up all those who enter Croatia and those who go out, we often see that over the weekend there are large migrations of people working in countries north of Croatia who come home every weekend, on Sundays they come back and we know that all of this is recorded. I think we're cheating on ourselves here, better to know the real truth about who the real guest of tourists is, the one who comes into the statistics, to have as much as possible, i.e. approximately as accurate as possible so that we can plan the season as accurately as possible, i.e. The direction of tourism development in the Republic of Croatia. As for membership fees, here I am not for banks to fall into the lower class because banks are making too much money in Croatia, but as far as membership fees and undeveloped areas are concerned, we have another problem for members of tourism companies to pay in their headquarters. So one company can have its own facilities in Sisak, Kutina, Osijek, and its headquarters in Zagreb, will pay membership fees in Zagreb, which further impoverishes the revenues of tourist banks. As far as destinations and tourism development are concerned, we are talking about underdeveloped areas or, as they would say, on continental tourism, we often try to force this development into measures, measures of county, cities, tourist communities. However, we must be aware that unless there are people who want to deal with tourism in order to make a profit, that is. In order to achieve some of our interest, we will not have quality destinations or quality tourist facilities to provide services to tourists. All these years, somewhere around 2010, as far as I can see, a lot of funds have been invested in continental tourism, but not so many new destinations have been created that offer quality service and quality offer. There are praiseworthy entrepreneurs who have created respectable facilities, a respectable offer, and I think that in the Ministry of Tourism we should sit down and talk to these people about what their motive was for them to deal with tourism and what their recipe is that they became successful tourist workers, that people come to their facilities. I know some people who develop tourism i.e. their companies or their holdings invest no matter how much they will receive, whether from the Ministry of Tourism, whether from the Croatian Tourist Board or the City and the municipalities because it is their commitment and precisely these people are successful. Those people who wait to get what I have listed, very often never develop a quality tourist offer on their own property or company. That is why we need to think about it in this direction even though the situation in the Republic is what it is, we are all aware that we have left the Republic of Croatia over 300,000 quality workers with their families, that it is increasingly difficult to find workers in any sector and also in this tourism sector, especially in undeveloped areas, especially in the continent. Because since, if income is low, it is very difficult to pay and decent personal income and then mostly people don't want to spend their time working for minimals in tourism. So you could talk about it for a long time, generally as I said, the law has given a pretty good framework that can be even upgraded. I'm glad you're in art. The 20th century 5th put to select the director of the tourist community, for the longest six months the president of the tourist community can manage the tourist community, because they often used to abuse it by looking for a political like person, for a long, long time they didn't choose the director until they knew it. This way you force them because, as I said in my debate, the director of the tourist community is the key to how this tourist community will function and try to work on their independence from politics and from leaders and I believe that then the tourist community will contribute even better to the development of tourism, especially in these undeveloped tourist areas. What we're going to put through our amendment is the Undeveloped Fund, which is now listed as 2%, we're going to suggest it's 5%, maybe it's a large amount, but we don't think it's because of the 5% that could help those who are quality and who have already well built an offer on their holdings or in their companies in certain undeveloped destinations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137663	Thank you. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, following on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most is a colleague of Bulj, who will share the debate with his colleague, Sladoljev. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137664	Thank you very much. Vice-President, distinguished secretaries with their co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, these existing proposals in these 3 laws are nothing new, but just an adornment that will not bring real changes to the development of tourism in the cities of the Republic of Croatia, especially in the continental part, or in rural areas. Why would he say that? To explain, the Republic of Croatia has its potential, has an increase in tourism, 18% of GDP is Croatian from tourism, which means that this is one significant amount. However, it is also risky because we do not have any additional value all the time for this increase in GDP tourism even greater, only because we do not use our potentials and resources, which are mainly food production. At the same time as tourism is growing, we are growing in imports of food products and now, as far as food products are concerned, it increases to EUR 3 billion, imports of food products and is growing rapidly. Last year there were 2.7, but now there are forecasts that there will be 3. 2018, 2019 to 3 billion, and we are dropping exports, which means we have no additional value. That's why when we talk about tourism, all the laws would be focused on small OPGs and our domestic producers, and not that the Ministry of Tourism is holding back, hitting large hotel houses, restaurants, literally those small half-boarders and pensioners, have banned them from roasting buildings or sreds or something like that, so we can't develop tourism in the continental but so on the coast if we don't have our food. And that's the basic problem. Another huge problem is that we do not have the strength to protect our territory, and it is obviously more important for the government to be in good relations with Tajani who gives fascist statements that respected secretaries says that your Klis Italy, which says that Istria is Italy, my Sinj is not Italy and it is not Italy and we would have to protect our exclusive economic belt, because it is the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the full application of the exclusive economic belt, not ZERP, is not a semi-exclusive economic belt, but our political elites when they joined the EU, did not look at this segment, but watched exclusively how whoever lifted the monument to sign an agreement before they reach the Italians, that they would agree, why the Italian fishing fleets would still have to hunt in our sea during the tourist seasons, they would have to have an additional value and not to be able to defend ourselves and to defend ourselves, because of our poor children, because of our own. So is agriculture. We've got a huge problem, I've got where we come from, we've got a block end, we've got a Sinj field. And we have to protect it, here we have the Dalmatian ham fair in Sinj on Friday, I invite you all, but the problem is that we don't have the biggest pig import, we don't have the circled production. We from the Netherlands, we don't know where, through Hungary we import GMO pork raised on GMO food. We don't have the meaning of domestic pigs and we have a branded Dalmatian prosciutto, top prosciutto, a brazen prosciutto, we have the meaning of production, it's funny to him when he's on Pag, I'm saying what I have to say, it's funny to you because you don't care, you don't care what I'm talking about, my Sinj field isn't watered down, we have a clean Cetina, look what's in Krka, what you're doing. Krka poured out of DIV from Debeljak's company, probably your friend and co-worker, an excuse of the river in Krk is being lost from the factory, the waste is now going towards NP Krka and from Krka river, symbols of the town of Knin and Dalmatian Zagora along with Cetina and other rivers are being powered by the entire Sibenik region. The Krka River is a symbol and clean water in Dalmatia, but that's not a problem for them, it's funny for them. That's ridiculous. They think it's funny when we say that we have an open sewer in Plitvice Lakes. Open sewers where 2 million tourists are coming. Instead of protecting our resources of water, river and that beauty as an additional value for tourists, not only to be on the coast of the sea, but to be able to come and look at our rivers, are they funny and the gentlemen of HDZ, they laugh at it because they have a much more important relationship with Tajani because they have to progress, they must have, so when the voice of the people from these parts is heard? So I invite you to come to the sonic prosciutto, we will go to Sinjsko Polje, clear river Cetina, a spring out, there is a colleague from my region, more water in one hour casts out the source of Cetina than all the springs in Israel. And that's where it's all watered up. We don't have a irrigation system in us. We have tourist potential, not to be afraid of something happening, to fail because we don't have any extra value. So the whole Dalmatian Zagora is empty and the tenants could live on it, something moved in Imotski, something is moving, but you can't defend someone, you can't legally defend that they can't have food in the offer of OPGs, but they have to go to restaurants, hotels, big favors. We have nothing to be ashamed of by the gastro-food industry, we have no domestic lambs or paisan cheese or synthetic prosciutto, and we do not have to be ashamed of it, that we will offer it on our table and brand it without importing harmful food and that I am right to see that the import of food is increasing. Now my colleague will continue only in the end to say that the only thing we have, we have agriculture, to be of extra value and to protect our seas, is our obligation otherwise the Italians will benefit more than that and the other EU members and let us no longer be a colony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137665	Hey, buddy of the Ice creams, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137666	Thanks, buddy. Honorable representatives of the government, so in the debate, I will refer to some of the articles that I have disputed in these three laws. So in this first law, Article 55 of the infringement provision, no punishment is defined i.e. sanctions if the salaries of employees are spent more than permitted. 30% of the tourist community prescribed, I would especially like to refer to it in the tourist boards, e.g. Cities are composed of different members, owners of business entities directly providing services in tourism, for example. representative of local television, a local chain of trade that does not know what it means to create a tourist offer and manage a tourist destination, create tourist packages, arrangements with price but the basis of membership fees which I consider a parafiscal imposition that they pay... Members of the tourist council, of course by selecting mayors, thus regularly represent their own electoral body in the middle of which HDZ rules. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for the tourist membership fee, I would also refer to the need to change the current model by which the tourist membership is collected by the TZ city of Zagreb in a way that all companies that are registered in Zagreb and operate throughout Croatia and pay the tourist membership fee, for example. The teleoperators of this membership stay with the tourist community of Zagreb. The mentioned tourist membership should remain exclusively for the national tourist community and then be returned by the national tourist community through designed mechanisms to local tourist communities in order to manage those revenues in favour of the development of tourist infrastructure, destination, e.g. the creation of infrastructure for the development of a cycle of tourism. In the future, the real and quality reconstruction of tourist communities should be pursued and tourist development agencies that create a tourist product with an emphasis on general tourism promotion. There must be a strategy for the development of tourism cities, regional and sub-regional tourist communities that would then be implemented by the tourism agency, e.g. wine roads, olive oil roads and the like, and not that it happens that the tourist community of one city is doing its own cycle route and the county tourist community is doing its own cycle of route, instead of working together on a cycle of culture and rationalising costs and promoting as a common cycle of route that includes all cities, districts and places where there is a tourist community. This kind of good part of our strategy stays in the drawer and doesn't go through, so then they don't even make sense, it's just a letter on paper. In the transitional phase until it comes to enable or stimulate the voluntary establishment of tourist communities and determine which jobs they are taking over from the current tourist communities. Development and tourism communities thus adopt an operational tourism development plan and would take care of strategies that are now without anyone to implement. We also have a lot of money in tourist communities during the year for journalists and bloggers who come from various countries, who are well-guested, but when they come unannounced, then there is a problem because the offer does not work the way it is presented. Also by... The model should enable members of tourist communities to become such members voluntarily and then have the right to enjoy the benefits of the tourist community, bear the sign of the tourist community and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us, however, this tourist membership is imposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137667	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. He is now on behalf of HDS, HSLS and HDSSB's teammate Branko Hrg. Here's your colleague, Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137668	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. Reading these laws and looking at what should be in any case is an attempt to join the areas and that small municipalities work practically common tourist communities in order to offer any tourist offer at all. Today, we have really one of these small tourist communities which, at the very least, have little meaning, unfortunately have little meaning because they don't have any money, they don't have any finances, and in principle they can do very little, possibly if they succeed in hiring a professional if they find it especially in this continental rural part of Croatia that does some work there but real development of tourism through these activities, there is no activity. It is constantly being imposed and asking whether the tourist communities in such environments because the Adriatic tourist communities are quite different, of course they have a lot of income and that they can function quite differently while the continental tourist communities really do not have such jobs as tourists at sea because of tourism itself. And now there is always a question and people's expectation of whether the tourist communities and which should make some steps, offer some programs, do some activities to bring some tourists, where to bring them, what to do. There's always some legally prescribed stuff about what's expected of them. And I think it is necessary, therefore, to go on a connection, and it is good to not go over the knee but to allow one such functional connection on a voluntary basis as well as to allow for integration into the regional tourist community because today, with all due respect, no county in the continental part of Croatia can actually provide any programme on which tourists would stay longer and have some long-term, long-term need to stay on it. And that is why it is necessary to really connect the tourist communities that would work. I'm a little vague here in the law itself, just connecting it to regional tourist communities. It is said in one section that the initiative is practically countyal, or regional, which already exists or mayors, and in the other part we have that members and members are representatives of local tourist communities, so now it is not quite clear to me where, where there is no regional, at the level of the county tourist community there will mean the mayor will give an initiative to join in some regional.../ The speaker doesn't understand. and then members and members will actually be from local communities, local communities. What is one thing in the law from before is present, it is the president and president of the tourist community. As a rule, it is under the current law that the mayor, mayor or mayor, we now see that some other person can be determined who will be but by the decision of the local leader. At the same time, representatives of those companies who pay the highest membership fee enter the tourist community council and the assembly, the highest fee, so to speak, which goes on behalf of the tourist community. And then we come up with a situation that actually makes it impossible for members to choose the president of the tourist community. Perhaps it is something that I would still, although this is a second reading, we will support the laws as a club, it is not controversial, I am opening this up as a single problem happening on the ground, and often it can actually have some consequences for the poorer functioning, because it can happen that in fact with the change of government, well now the law defines that the president or director of the tourist community remains until the moment he is there, as he proposed it means the head of local self-government in the mandate he was elected to. What will happen to the regional leaderships of the tourist communities, where one of the leaders will propose, may happen to some leaders before they leave office, while others remain longer, whether it will be linked to that leader exclusively who was the promoter, so when his mandate ceases, whether he changes, or until his term ends. So that's something that I didn't completely understand. In any case, in any case, I think that in some future time it will take a little deeper to analyze these things and even more detail how and how to put these tourist communities into functions that really have their true meaning and that they can work. I especially say the tourist communities in this rural area of the Republic of Croatia to the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, which is completely or very little touristly developed and simply a constant tap in the place can't be run forward, all of them expecting something from someone no one knows who will take the first step. I'm a little bit curious, and I have to admit this financing of tourist communities, I don't know why, for example, in a third group of companies dealing with maintenance and repair of motor vehicles or postal couriers' activities or in the retail trade of motor vehicles, small parts and accessories for motor vehicles, I don't know how to trade in large agricultural raw materials and live cattle should pay that membership fee. Here, it's not me, it's not me. It's not me. It's not me. It's not me. In particular, I got bit in the eye by this story of trade in live cattle and in the agricultural area. We are practically coming into the situation that we have not found a solution and a way to place Croatian agricultural production in the tourism of the Republic of Croatia and, at the same time, we charge some taxes for tourism. We have a little bit of a black hole in the middle, I think that in some future time it would also be necessary to look at everything in any way that connects these membership fees to tourist communities and that really membership fees are paid by those who benefit from tourism, not all of them by having an imposition from which realistically looking will not benefit. I don't understand, I don't believe a tourist will come and buy a car in Croatia, so the motor vehicle trade will pay taxes or charge taxes based on how much they sold to tourists in the end. Like this, it's illogical, and I know entrepreneurs often complain about that tax that they have to pay because they say we have nothing to do with tourism in principle, and we pay the same membership fee often I'm surprised when I see who pays everything. Here are these few remarks with the desire to really get into a situation where tourist communities in the continental part of Croatia, especially in the continental part of Croatia, actually come into a situation where they are strategically planning, to come into a situation where in some way they will be those who will come up with the content, programs on which some tourist groups will come in, to design some destinations, we support these laws, but also, of course, with a view to further considering the possibilities and to monitor the effects and effects of the law in the extreme case if there are no specific effects and effects to go to changes of the law and to adapt them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137669	Thank you, too. We continue the debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives, next on behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club is a colleague of Nada Turina-Đurić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State with associates, so here are a few words from the GLAS Club and HSU regarding the bill's proposals and the united reading of these three laws. In fact, our position is that we will support these changes even though we do not, although we do not think that these changes are in some way a little bit of a home-altering process, and it should have been put in motion long ago to do so, nothing reformal or revolutionary is happening in these amendments of the law, although as such they are represented as laws that make big changes and will significantly contribute to our tourism being more quality and better, it is not so, in our opinion, tourism far more deserved than what is being given through the proposals and these laws and some other laws that have come from the Ministry of Tourism. So, the basic idea that you put forward in the proposal is that, then, the Republic of Croatia has decided on the so-called so-called. the model of destination management or destination management and, in that respect, the structure and institutions involved in tourism in the public sector shall be placed in the best possible way to carry out their tasks. But, of course, the Polishes around it are as much as, where, why, do they contribute, etc., in this bill are actually only verified as it is now, means, almost every municipality and every city in the Republic + even some places in the Republic of Croatia have their own tourist community, most of them have their own tourist offices, most of them have their own directors or directors. So it's a pretty big drive when we look at the entire Republic, and in fact it's a real answer to the question of how much it really contributed or contributed that the Republic of Croatia has a better tourist product, I think it's a big question because we who, unfortunately, in this country, have turned both tourist communities and tourist offices into extended policy hands in a particular area. And instead of these people doing that, that's what the fact is, I'm not talking about what some of our desires are, what some of our goals are, what we'd like to be, I'm talking about what's on the ground, I've been in my political career, and I've been a regional official and a local top-ranking official and I know how it works. I think that in most cases we have failed to create independent institutions, independent of politics, financially strong enough to be able to do our tasks, but we have linked them to politics, especially the decision that the mayors and mayors at the same time and the presidents of the tourist communities who, of course, have a huge impact in the congregations of these tourist communities and in the councils of tourist communities and of course on the humane decisions, and also on the financial decisions, and at the same time in one good part of the Republic, these same mayors and mayors are actually holding to the throat directors in a way to finance them defacto because most of these tourist communities, while you are now in this law, here I have to mention it as one commendable thing, that yet some more funds are going to be left on the ground for concrete work, for the people who do this job. However, there will still be this bad echo that in fact the leaders of both local and regional self-government will in some ways have a significant impact on who will perform these duties and how they will perform them on the ground, which is not good. Tourism, we as a state should determine which place we put tourism, whether tourism is something that is our first, second, third, fifth, tenth, or our last hole in playing. In the Republic of Croatia, or lastly, it is not the last hole, but it is the hole that allows us to actually survive as a state, and in some things when they need to be really done and pulled to get the state behind it, then usually the state moves away from it, so it remains, of course, on some regional municipal authorities and on the directors of these tourist communities. In fact, what I want to open here as a question, the question is, is, is, is it really possible for us to do something with tourism in the Republic of Croatia in a way that it can be a locomotive that draws the Croatian economy, is it even possible for it to be, that someone from the profession should say, I think there are economists who should say whether it's possible for tourism to be the one that pulls because we've almost lost everything, tourism is one of the few that's left in the Republic that we can rely on and through it to place some of our products, whether we want it or not? Do we need a tourist product to place other products and how will we reason and how will the state stand behind it? Not a municipality of 500 or 1000 people who will organize 5, 10, 20 or 30 manifestations of fencing, cooking stew or I don't know what to promote tourism in this way, but are we going to stand behind this tourism as a strategic project of the Republic of Croatia? We have not yet managed to brand, no matter what we think of it as a destination is more branded, or more recognizable Dubrovnik than Croatia, we must admit. And what will we do to turn the whole of Croatia into a brand and then some parts and regions of Croatia because objectively we will never brand a municipality of 500 people without mentioning any of them as a destination. We can brand certain regions of Croatia and it will be painful and it will be difficult. Because anyone who knows anything about tourism knows how much it's invested in some kind of branding provence, how much it's invested in branding certain cities, big cities like Paris, like London, how much it has to be invested that and how much the whole policy has been behind them becoming tourism, tourist brands, or destinations that are recognized at the world level. And that's what we should talk about, and that's why these tourist communities in these laws should come up with a way that some territory of the Republic of Croatia can, by different criteria, be placed on the market as a tourist product. And it will be very difficult if we have 550 or 580 directors of some tourist offices that deal with it. If they're not real, professional teams of people who are tasked with branding a particular area. So we have to decide what we want. Because each municipality and city always has enough money and income to hire an agency that will organise in its area of 5 or 6 cooking festivals, I don't know a boat and a variety of other events, which is usually the biggest job of our tourist communities and offices in smaller places, I'm talking about smaller places above all. So they need to be helped to connect, they need to be teamed up, they need to be set up by law. No one here is excess, I know that everyone likes to be a director, that's what they call it, even if it's their own director, but all these people need to be in the system but they need to be organized, they need to be adequately financially monitored and they need to know exactly what their task is to create for a particular area to become a real tourist product. I don't see it in this law. I see in this law a little bit of preparation, OK, a little more money will stay in the field, everyone will stay, so everybody happy, nowhere to be rebelled, no problem and we'll move on. This year, however, Croatia has a problem with the buking, according to some indicators. Now, of course, it's not quite clear why that is, or no one has given the full answers why, let's hope it's not going to be some big fall, but we have to start thinking about it in the future. As things change in everyday life so they change in tourism, new technologies come, people work in a different way, annual vacations are planned quite differently than they used to, people go on shorter vacations, go on trips, go to festivals, events, etc. I mean, I'm not sure that we're teamed up on the ground, so in these offices, in those tourist communities, though I can do it in a way that tourism is one of the key economic products of the Republic because we don't have a lot of others left, so we're going to have to go on tourism, to what I'd say, and then I don't know how to produce food, to produce furniture, to produce. ... which we do not produce in sufficient quantity to place through it, so that in this country some kuna may remain from this tourism. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Otherwise we do the story as well as the shipbuilding, you know we will one day happen, maybe if we continue to do that tourist product, that we offer that it will no longer be interesting to anyone or that it will be too expensive what is happening now is too expensive, that we will not have the workforce as with the boat. So the ship, the shipbuilding, it's something that, in my personal opinion, only crazy political can destroy. It's not a theme, but it's very, very similar. So since the shipbuildings lived not only the metal industry, various small industries have lived from and live from shipbuilding if it is well-conceived. The same thing about tourism, so that final product that we offer, is included in this final product with a tremendous amount of other economic branches, services, production branches and services that are finally offered and is the simplest thing to offer through tourism, as was the simplest thing that any small industry and cooperatives have to do with a large product, a complex product like the ship. That's not what we were able to do, so shipbuilding, our shipyards that made the best ships in the world failed. Don't anyone wonder if it might happen to us if we don't make sure in time that this system of tourism works for us that something like that happens to us with tourism? So we'll only have someone coming here and there to take a little bath in our beautiful sea if it's clean enough, if we can protect it in a way that's clean enough for us. So we support this part of the law that, in the laws which, I would say, are more or less logical and we welcome that someone has decided to do a little order and clean up the house and that's why we're going to vote for all three of these laws but I think the ministry is not thinking enough strategically about tourism and if these are reform and strategic laws, then I'm curious about where the minister is? Where is the minister to say and explain why this is something so reform strategic and so important? I mean, it's important. [[Intruder: Thank you]] but not the way you show it. [[/Agreement: Thank you, colleagues.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137671	Thank you, colleagues. Please welcome the delegation from the State Audit Office of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which is with us at HS headed by Deputy Chief State Auditor Mr. Ademi, a lovely greeting... We're continuing the debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. [[Applause]] Next on behalf of SDP representative Davor Bernardic, please welcome colleague Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137672	Dear Vice President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government, perhaps the most important finding of how much the government really cares about today's debate, says only that the minister here doesn't actually attend, that's what this is all about, but good. Tourism, however, is the most important activity of the Croatian economy for the reason that tourism benefits are around 20% of GDP, and the contribution of tourism activities is about 11% of GDP. The difference is Intermedial products from other sectors and imports of what tourists spend. The contribution of employment is about 10%, which is very high in the world frameworks, among the 10 countries with the highest employment in tourism in the world. By observing the international exchange, the exchange of services by the Republic of Croatia creates quite a surplus, the surplus exports on imports covering the deficits in the international trade of goods, which is precisely because of tourism and for this very reason is also important as a stabiliser of international trade relations. The development of the tourism sector remains one of the most successful Croatian transition stories. However, because of the recovery and stabilisation of the political security situation in the Mediterranean and the emigration of residents from the Republic of Croatia, tourist activities have found themselves in an unspeakable situation. On the one hand, their costs are rising due to the growth of salaries caused by the lack of workers, and on the other hand they feel the pressure of competition on the Mediterranean to return to a game with fairly competitive products. The situation in tourist activities, the provision of accommodation, food preparation, transport, further makes it difficult to pay too much tax burden compared to comparable countries. In addition to a challenging economic environment, tourism has additional problems, the growth of Croatian tourism in the 21st century was largely based on price increases due to the increase in quality of services in hotels and camps, and on uncontrolled physical growth in the capacity of family accommodation, apartments and households that also made a qualitative step. However, there has been no more serious change in the average fill-up of Croatian tourist capacities or the reduction of seasonality. Basically, too few products and services are created, or reasons for travel and stay in the Republic of Croatia outside the summer season. It is extremely worrying that the average productivity of tourism per guest and per night has been steadily dropping since 2008. Although all parameters, arrivals, overnight stays and foreign exchange inflows have increased since 2008, there has been a decline in foreign exchange inflows following arrival of guests of over 15% and a drop in inflow at overnight of over 17%. Currently private accommodation has a stake in accommodation capacity of more than 50%, and together with campsites and not hotel accommodation, it reaches a share of almost 80%. The proportion of hotel accommodation that brings guests to the most income groups has a share in accommodation capacity of just 20%. Also, our tourism is still a low-income sector. The average hour travels from 24.00 kn in the preparation of food to 32.00 kn in the provision of accommodation, while e.g. In the chemical industry, comparisons work, 52.00 kn. Tourism also has a low share of domestic or domestic products in the final service provided to guests. In the conditions of low competitiveness of the operational business environment and lack of regulatory functions between the state, regional and local level, the contribution of tourism to economic and social development of the Republic of Croatia is therefore less than that which is objectively possible. The responsible tourism management strategy should result in tourism that is recognizable, year-round, developed throughout the space, diverse, innovative and adaptable to guests. The key preconditions for tourism development are long-term space protection and responsible environmental management, investment competitiveness, the activation of inactive state assets and investment in people, i.e. increasing knowledge and skills at all levels. Responsible tourism is based on principles of social and economic justice, and respect and respect for customs, culture and the environment. Responsible tourism recognises the central role, local communities, hosts and its right to be a key player in developing sustainable and responsible tourism in its country. Responsible tourism encourages and promotes a positive interaction between the tourism industry, local communities and passengers. This definition is a basic goal for Croatian tourism to be pursued. Developing tourism in a way that the local community or citizens of Croatia have absolutely the most benefits from tourism. So tourism and tourism development must not be a goal for themselves but a means for achieving the ultimate goal, which is to increase the well-being of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Starting with this ultimate goal, three main objectives can be drawn that contribute to its achievement. First, quality system of experience based on forces of destination, sun, sea, natural attractions, cultural heritage, enogastral offer, etc. RH as one destination and regional destinations as natural Croatian regions. A well-conceived tourist offer and then a quality plan for the promotion of the destination is the basis on which visitors will choose the destination to visit. It is very important that the tourist destination and then the promotion of the destination are based on its offer on authentic values where the main role in the content and the resulting benefit of tourism has a local population. In this way, an authentic tourist product is created that is long-term sustainable and that the concise system of experiences becomes the main motive for coming to a destination, or in Croatia. In order to achieve step one in the long term, and step 2 requires systematic work on networking of all stakeholders on the tourist market. Public and private sectors. This applies to all forms of accommodation capacity. A complete food industry, individual tourist attractions, catering and on the other side of the tourist community, as well as a unit of local and regional self-government so that quality cooperation and joint marketing activities can target tourism consumption within destinations in order to reuse and benefit from the local community. This specifically means that through tourism, additional values of each product are constantly found. For example, gastronomy based on local foods, not necessarily on imports. From the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, which creates the possibility of developing all Croatian regions based on the cooperation of tourist regions and those which are not primarily. For example. Slavonia, through the placement of products on the tourist market, where you can achieve the additional value of each product much easier than by competition in exporting to the external markets. And third, one of the most important goals. Fiscal policy. In particular, VAT can have a significant impact on the competitiveness of the destination. And it can also be the main instrument that encourages the participation of stakeholders, as described in the second step. By reducing the VAT rate to hotelers and all who provide direct services in tourism to 5%, which base their offer on nationalally produced foods and co-operation with the local community, multiple benefits are achieved through a multiplier effect which is achieved in a way that total consumption and thus the total VAT revenue is increased, resulting in significant economic growth as a result of quality cooperation on the tourist market. Short-term measures to facilitate the employment of foreigners, help local self-government units to provide accommodation for seasonal workers during the season, aligning the VAT with the most important competitors and preparing food and accommodation, placing emphasis on medical tourism outside the season due to the extension of the season are just some of the measures that we need to introduce into our tourist practice. Furthermore, the catering sector which we and how we rely on in terms of economic growth, filling the state budget and employment is in a very difficult state. Large revenues from the arrival of tourists are the most related to the Adriatic and only about 10% of the guests benefit from tourism because of this fact, and the other 90% continue to survive. Unfortunately, the trend of closing in catering facilities continues due to heavy burdens. It is worrying that the government is constantly attacking this sector with new major commitments. Since 1 January 2017, the reduced VAT rate has not been applied and we have a VAT rate in the catering industry, 25%, the highest in Europe. Of the 28 EU members, Croatia and Denmark only apply a 25% rate. Other Member States either have a lower VAT rate or have recognised, even 17 within the EU, the importance of hospitality and apply a reduced rate to it. But let's look back at our Mediterranean neighborhood. To our direct competition. Portugal, has a 13% VAT rate, Italy of 10%, Spain 10% and France a 10% rate in catering. When it comes to VAT rates on hotel accommodation and we are here at the EU summit, despite the 13% reduction in VAT rates. Only 5 EU Member States have higher VAT on hotel accommodation than Croatia. On the other hand, the aforementioned Spain, France, Italy, apply 10% rates and Portugal even lower 6%. This encourages the development of tourism. And instead of stimulating the development and further strengthening and competitiveness of tourism as the strongest economic branches, this government with various pressures and tax burdens is choking and destroying it because this same tourism has the highest share of GDP. Such a large share suggests a catastrophic general economic situation in Croatia. We rely on tourism revenues that save the country from bankruptcy and this shows that something is wrong with the Croatian economy. What is worrying is that even a fifth of the state's income depends on a single sector. It depends on the same tourism that is prone to the influence of various external factors that we cannot control. The government has made 5 major hits on the country's leading economic sector on tourism. The first blow, the VAT rate in the catering was lifted and we are now the Mediterranean country with the highest VAT rate in this sector. Strike two of this government. The tourist tax for guests in nautical tourism has also been increased recently in certain cases 10 times. 3rd strike of the government, tourist tax has been increased for guests in accommodation facilities 25%. The 4th strike of the government, a decision has been made to increase the flat-rate tax for small tenants who can go up as much as 5 times. The 5th strike of the government, particularly in the decision to increase the flat-rate tax, is burdened by the same cobwebs additionally with the tax. The 6th strike of the government is on the agenda today through the Final Proposal of the Tourist Tax Act. So, on the one hand, we have a recovery of our competitive markets, Turkey, Greece, the Middle East, which means a new pressure and a slowdown of Croatia's growth in tourism so far, and how it will feel about the results of the tourist season this year, and on the other hand, a completely thoughtless government policy that continuously increases the burdens in this, for Croatia's extremely important economic sector, and on the principle of "take where there is more" and that is why in the SDP to help develop this same tourism, we will send a proposal for amending the VAT law in order to reduce the pre-season rate to 13% in catering and to reduce the VAT rate to 5% in accommodation, according to the example of countries that have the most developed tourism in Europe, with an even greater competitiveness. And we will see from the Government whether or not they will accept our proposal, according to everything we have seen from them so far, they have shown that neither the tourism sector nor the tourism workers nor the citizens of this country are important to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137673	Next debate on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, debate fellow Pernar, please welcome colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137674	Dear ladies and gentlemen, our country has focused on tourism as the primary source of income and it can be said freely that there is no tourist income for the state to collapse. However, what the state is doing is not, to put it this way, developing other branches of the economy, but the state's policy has been reduced to parasiticism and this parasiteisation has resulted, among other things, in eliminating the double VAT rate in catering, then resulting in an increase in the tourist tax, nautical tax, etc. Most of the time, the state is trying in every way possible to get the money that tourists give out of the pockets of its citizens and businesses. Why? Not to develop the country, but to fill all state institutions with their own intentions or staff of ruling political parties. Such a policy is not good for those who deal with tourism, nor for everyone else because it leads to an unequal development of the state in a way that some regions like Gorski Kotar, Karlovac, Slavonia, etc., Zagorje notes the depopulation that people from there disappear and that on the other hand the tourist region manage to survive somehow. However, there will also be a problem because the season in the Republic of Croatia does not last for 12 months. The Republic of Croatia is not a tropical country, that the Republic of Croatia is a tropical country then we could all deal with tourism and there's no problem, but we're not, which means you have a problem. What will all these people do when the tourist is gone? One word will work in shipyards, for example. But when the shipyards are closed, put the key in the lock, all of their workers, they will be able to work in the summer season without a problem somewhere, is but what will they do when the season is over? And like I said, the season doesn't last forever. Anyway, our country doesn't do enough to protect our economy, it doesn't do enough to change monetary policy in order to facilitate and obtain and repay credit, it doesn't do enough about building permits, so urbanization is difficult and you're even trying to make the most ordinary house you need to make 20 different requests and everything is loaded with paperwork. You have a problem that has not been solved, or coordinated, the cadastre with the grantovnica, which is an unusual system, as there is some kind of parallel accounting, so there is parallel management of land books that ultimately lead to litigation. So, we have a bunch of litigation and tensions just because the cadastre isn't consistent with the granite. The state today in 2019 hasn't done it yet, and it had to be done long ago. Finally, the victims of this population exploitation policy will be its own citizens, which through it will be condemned to work exclusively as seasonal workers, which is that they can't actually have adequate salaries, that even those who work, who have a job, have to pay enormously, those who want to develop, can't because they can't get to favourable loans, etc., etc. So, this whole system is actually demented, illogical, absurd and leading the country into not development, not into a better future, but leading us back. There you go, ladies and gentlemen, that'll be all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137675	Thank you too, colleague Pernar. We continue to debate on behalf of the club of representatives, next on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives of counterparts Saucha Tomislav, please welcome colleague Sauch.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137676	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Today, here in the second reading, this is an important set of laws that concern, therefore, our most important economic branches, tourism. We talked a lot about this set of laws in the first reading when he was here, I have to say the same simply for, to get into some kind of, to get into the record, that here as I recall, the minister was quite a stay-at-the-day, that he was present at least most, and we entered into a lot of details, so maybe today maybe the details don't need to get in so much since they were absorbed in the first reading, but I have to commend the ministry anyway, because when I read, therefore, the reasoning of these laws in the second reading, I saw that the comments and discussions and arguments of the representatives with the full political spectrum were actually accepted. I think it's very rare that any political option has run out of participation in the final proposal of these three laws, and I think it's good, that it shows the openness of that ministry in a very open sector, which is the tourism sector, and as I was saying the first time I spoke on the subject of these three laws that just tourism is one of the most promising economic branches where we simply have to keep pace with the time and step with development because if we don't do it, we're going to fail, as some of our colleagues here today before me, the market is waking up, our region where we act in which we're competitive wake up and I think we should never really find pleasure in other people's trouble, nor when our neighbors were in various problems that were of this kind or that kind of nature. So they were, whether it was war destruction or simply a crisis of some other kind but the fact is that it was our tourism that got better, now it's getting better, and our competition is coming back, and we just have to keep up or else we'll find ourselves in big trouble. Our fulfillment at present, as I understand it during the season, is extremely good, but we must always work on what is the goal and sacred grail of every tourism, Ministry of Tourism, i.e. Each government, which is that the tourist season from the entire tourism sector is being extended to as many months outside of the main season as possible, means the climate conditions of the conditional tourist season in order to increase, of course, the revenues from that tourism branch of tourism. Of course tourism and tourism revenues are influenced by tax policy, and I also have to say that I personally agree that VAT in tourism is something that should change, return to those rates that were before, because indeed, the only logic I see in this tax policy, in this tax policy of determining the VAT of 25% in the catering that, that it is indeed to take where there is and people are when that rate of 13% was then brought and made some long-term plans, investments in their catering facilities and probably did not plan to return to them again very soon after that 13%, which naturally affects their competitiveness and thus ruins that calculation that they eventually entered into some additional investment. However, we are going back to the laws themselves, so the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, as I have already said in my first reading, is a modern law, a law that follows trends, not only scientific trends but also trends in the field, trends in living events in tourism, so the concept of destination management is introduced, meaning the organisation of destination management as a new concept that actually puts one, i.e. determines one assumption that all stakeholders on a specific destination are involved in the creation of a tourist product, so much stronger will be the role of the local self-government unit, that is exactly where the tourist product is created. And we think that's good. It's also a good thing you can determine that. that the president of the tourism organisation no longer necessarily has to be the head of the unit of local self-government even though his ability to understand from the reasons of the ministry, the possibility of the head of local self-government is to determine just anyone, whoever is a member of the tourist community to be on his behalf as the president of the tourist organisation, in fact in some way refutes the purpose itself, i.e. I still see no point in why it would change, i.e. It's not a neck, it's not a neck, I don't know the captain, it's a colleague of his. But in principle, if these tourist organisations are going to function as it is imagined in this law, then it is in some ways relatively irrelevant since there are other bodies of the tourist organization, so also the assembly, i.e. The Assembly and the Council, which will then be elected at a certain time by the Director of the Tourist Organization, and this director should be the one chosen by the professional person in the competition that should indeed be run by that organisation. We've had, I've had some remarks regarding the possibility of a shift director. Therefore, it was predicted that the director of the public competition was to be replaced by two-thirds of the vote, which is in fact a little deviating from some standards is usually the majority required to choose and change it, but the argument is that the director is elected for 4 years and that he should be given peace and 4 years to carry out his mandate and that after 4 years he must automatically go back to re-election to choose the new majority again, so in some way after that 4 years, he is revaluing and eventually replacing him by choosing new ones with one normal majority. I am also pleased that my proposal has been accepted to, therefore, be reduced, to reduce the required quorum i.e. the majority for the adoption of certain documents, the adoption of certain documents and the adoption of certain acts at the tourist community assembly. So from 2/3 to the ordinary majority why, as the ministry noted, it would simply lead to the fact that, in order to destabilize the tourist community as such, the tourist council that reports on the tourist congregation would simply be in case they didn't collect the quorum. So just for a second, we've had some more things that have been accepted, so as far as things are concerned that are not acceptable, so defining the conditions that should be met by the person appointed by the mayor as president of the tourist community, these aren't so big and important things that I don't know how to break a spear. With these further arguments, we are also pleased. As far as the Tourist Tax Act is concerned, I am extremely pleased that my proposal has been accepted to be inserted into Article 8 into persons who are not, who have been exempt from paying the tourist tax to be evicted, i.e. No brothers and sisters were included as the closest relatives on the sideline. We argued that such a practice could lead to major problems because often with us property owners, therefore, tourist facilities on, holiday houses are parents who, then, their children couldn't actually get there, and then one of them inherited themselves and then let's say his brother couldn't or his sister couldn't come there without paying a tourist tax. I see that this observation has been accepted, and we are very pleased, and so are the sisters and their mates. The argument and observation of colleagues of Curaj was also accepted, therefore, that the county congregations are making or that the City of Zagreb City Assembly is making a decision on the level of tourist tax with the opinion of local tourist communities. We think that this is very important, that when one such act is adopted, the rule of law by the presidential body is heard and the opinion of the profession is heard. The tourist communities that will then say how much they are, in fact, reducing the tourist tax because we saw in the first reading that it is now possible for this tourist tax to be reduced. The county congregations can determine the amount of tourist tax, which will, of course, affect the total amount of tourist revenues, and beyond that, we think it is good to hear the tourist community that they say whether such a reduction is useful in the long term or whether it is harmful to them. Because it may lead to some kind of competitiveness in the short term, although I honestly don't see that half of the EUR or EUR-o will break more or less, whether someone will go into the unknown Sibenik-Knin or Split-Dalmatia County, but if such an opinion is okay, we will see it in practice. The argument was also accepted to introduce the obligation to pay a tourist tax for cruisers i.e. ships on circular voyages in international maritime transport, inland transport when the ship is on the port of port at the port of port, I think it is an extremely good thing that this has been accepted. Col. Curaj also suggested that further explanations be given, therefore, to the situation relating to the payment of the tourist fee for homeowners and vacation apartments in case of co-ownership real estate and we received an explanation that we are satisfied with, in that case, the provisions relating to the payment of the tourist tax in the annual flat-rate or payment of the tourist tax are reduced by 70%, therefore, relations, and that this applies equally to all co-owners. So, what you would now be, I left for the end of the i.e. I left for the end, therefore, the Final Proposal of the Law on Memberships of Tourist Communities. So these membership fees become one of the most important i.e. One of the major incomes of units i.e. tourism communities, local tourist communities and therefore, there was a new model to compensate for smaller funds for the work of tourist communities, and for the reason that both the Law on Memberships of Tourist Communities and the Law on Tourist Taxes are prescribed instruments related to the financing of tourist communities in tourist underdeveloped areas. So, the proposer has defined in more detail than some of the payer's, and so we have an art., so 5, where we now have a 5 group of taxpayers paying the tourist membership fee and in the next article, so, Art. 6. we have defined groups based on which to pay, therefore, accounts or amounts of these memberships. So we have 5 groups, the highest one, the 2nd, the 3rd, the 4th, the 5th, and now that we look at that Art. 5., therefore, the Law on activities for which membership is paid, in the first group there are certain activities directly related to the activity of tourism, some of them are, in particular, small crafts, these are catering activities and taxi services, there are also some that the colleague of Hrg said is simply not visible exactly that, most clearly, this link between tourism and their activities, but they are still bonds and they are classified as 5 groups based on how much benefit from tourism as such, their activity has. Now, for the first time, there was one new activity to start paying membership fees, these are banks. I think it's great and it's even been particularly embedded in the specific item of that article, so, St. 2 where it was said that banks, that banks would be paid membership fees, in accordance with this law and at the rate reserved for the first group, so the highest rate. Also in reading, in the first reading in the proposal of this law, telecoms were classified from what has been, so far, according to current law, from third category to second category. My colleagues and colleagues, for banks, I think the banks in the tourist season are doing a little better, and I think the telecoms are doing a lot, a lot, a lot better, and I think their profits due to tourism are growing more. And that's why I don't understand why the proposer found it necessary to move between the two readings of these two first category activities and the second category to the third category, therefore, to the lower rate. I think there's probably been some kind of strong advocacy and lobbying. I know that it's probably not easy for ministry colleagues to get rid of it, and that's why we're going to help them, I've submitted an amendment that will go back to the way it was in the first reading. For the rest of it, all right? The HNS club will support it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. Goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137677	Thank you, fellow Sauch. Let's welcome students and students of Blaž Juraj Trogirin High School, of course, from Trogir who are with us. Welcome! ... Before continuing on behalf of the club representatives, it is time to present the position of club representatives. [[Applause]] We're going back to the so-called set. tourism laws and on behalf of IDS, PGS and RI, colleague Emil Daus, please. After a colleague's another application on behalf of the club and after that, we'll start an individual discussion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137679	Dear Mr. Vice President, this is where the Secretary of State writes to me and asks if anyone would like to hear what I'm talking about. I'm sorry, of course, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean you. I meant the representatives of the ministry. [[Intruder Hajdash Doncic: Here they are, I hope they come back]] On behalf of the IDS Club, I will refer to a set of tourism laws that we are discussing today and concrete legal solutions that these laws make but I will also talk about the competitiveness of Croatian tourism and other important issues and problems that burden Croatian tourism. As far as the legal solutions under the proposed laws are concerned, it is good that the proposer has accepted some of the proposals from the IDS Club that we made in the first reading. This is specifically about Article 33. The final proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism where the text of the law in the first reading provides for a limit of the number of representatives of the individual members of the tourist community to only 30% of representatives in the assembly, which was a bad solution because it would reduce the share of competent tourist workers in local tourist communities. Now, in the final draft of the law, this has been raised to 40% and this is good because the competence of the representatives themselves in the assembly will contribute to the quality of the functioning of the assembly and thus to the tourist community as a whole, since they will participate in decision-making but in monitoring the work of the tourist communities with greater knowledge and experience in tourism. However, the promoter unfortunately failed to accept a number of other well-intentioned and reasoned proposals that could be heard during the first reading parliamentary debate so that the laws that are before us again contain some dubious and bad solutions that occurred without the consultation of the profession and that the development of Croatian tourism will act in the long term limiting and thus harmful. One such long-term unfavourable solution is the abolition of tourism classes, which no longer exists, either qualitatively or quantitatively classification of tourism development by local self-government units. What is particularly unacceptable for us in the IDS are the provisions of Article 12(10). Final draft membership laws in tourist communities and Article 20(8) Final proposal of the Tourist Tax Act. These provisions provide for the Croatian Tourist Board to open a public tender for the allocation of funds from the tourism fund for underdeveloped areas and continents, to regional tourist communities in tourist underdeveloped areas and then regional tourist communities are investigating a public tender for the allocation of these funds to local tourist communities in underdeveloped areas. on the basis of the criteria prescribed by the Minister by the Regulation. And now that's where the problem comes in. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. We believe that, in taking into account the criteria of general development in the distribution of funds towards regional and local TZs, it does not value the contribution of a particular region in the total tourism transport of Croatia and does not maintain the real needs of certain environments, and we are particularly referring to the area of central rural Istria. Istra is once again punished for being successful. Such a practice by this HDZ government that, in all possible situations, either through an index of development or in some other way punishing citizens and entrepreneurs in Istria, prevents them from developing further, simply has to stop. In order for this to not be understood now as populism and demagogy, I will continue to present a detailed analysis reasoned through real examples on the ground. First, the development index of an area takes into account the following indicators. The unemployment rate, income per capita, budget revenues of municipalities and cities per capita, general population movements, education rates and ageing index. The total population movement is calculated as the ratio of the comparable population of the unit of local or regional self-government over the last available 10-year period, using data from the State Statistics Office on the number of units of local or regional self-government. Therefore, the number of tourist nights and the number of tourist arrivals of the municipality or city are not taken into account. On the other hand, the education rate is calculated as a proportion of the population with completed secondary school and higher education in the total population aged 16 to 64 in the area of municipalities, cities or counties. The lack of calculation of the share of the educated population stems from the fact that data on the educational structure of the population comes from the census, which means every 10 years. This is an objectively too long period because it includes, for example, two five-year educational cycles in higher education and 2.5 years of middle education. Therefore, these indicators maintain a general state of development which is not suitable for the association of tourism development or underdevelopment of an area that we must work on other qualitative and quantitative indicators such as nights and arrivals of tourists in some place, the arrival of the tourist community of the municipality or the city related to the tourist tax and tourist membership, which are an indicator of revenues from tourist traffic in the local capacities, so the residence tax and income of activities related to tourism, so tourist membership. Furthermore, the number of tourist arrivals relative to the number of inhabitants, the number of beds relative to the number of inhabitants, the average number of days of stay of tourists, capacity utilisation, average annual capacity fill-up and the number of persons employed in tourism showed in relation to the number of total employees. Only 7 tourist communities from 41 local self-government units in Istria can be reported by applying the development index to the public call for HTZ, making up the 17.07% share. This is further only 1.72% of the total 408 so-called. Undeveloped local self-government units in Croatia. Such a calculation turns out to be a share of the 7 tourist communities in Istria, 1.09% of the available 4 million kuna and only 43 835, 57 kuna. In other words, each of these 7 tourist communities can receive just over 6,000 kuna support from HTZ. We're just wondering what these environments can do with those means. If we consider the number of overnight stays from e-Visitor, we see that in Istria last year 18 mostly coastal tourist communities, along with sailors, achieved 95.6% of tourist nights while other TZs in the central Istria area achieved only 4.4% of overnight stays. We believe that the application of this key to the distribution of resources to tourist underdeveloped areas is much closer to real conditions and to the needs of certain environments in terms of tourism development or underdevelopment. Secondly, the distribution of funds according to the development index amounted to 1.09% of resources to grant support to undeveloped tourist areas. My men, only 1%. In view of the fact that Istria is making almost 1/3 of the tourist traffic throughout Croatia, which means Istria in the same way, if not more, contributes to the achievement of the incomes made to HTZ from the tourist tax and from the tourist membership fees from which these support is provided. We therefore hold that 1% of the funding for tourism undeveloped areas in rural Istria is much smaller than that of Istrian tourist workers contributing to Croatian tourism. It also saddens us that the central rural Istria is perceived as a tourist-developed Istrian coast, although it is all but that. It is actually a real example of a tourist undeveloped area on the continent as strange as it sounds to some. Well, it's an area of several units with mountain-mounted status, some of them until yesterday with special state concerns. If necessary, I will call those who wrote these laws in the interior of Istria to see what it looks like on the ground. Then maybe they'll understand what I'm talking about even though it's a little bit of a riot because some ministry employees are from that area. And I repeat, what can a tourist community do with 6,000 kunas on an annual basis? I've listened to the State Secretary's exposure before. What kind of investments can be considered in these environments of people with these amounts? This is just cosmetics, it's not content. I've heard before that this is a reform system, you call it reform? Decentralization? You don't understand what decentralisation means, with all due respect except before each election. This is a centralization where the minister prescribes a rulebook with criteria on who gets the money when and how. So for rural Istria, only 1% and we in IDS have repeatedly warned in recent years that the situation in the tourism sector is such that Croatia is uncompetitive and, above all, because of the inadequate government policy which does not take practical measures to address the key problems and challenges of our tourism. And in those rare cases when the government decides to do something about it, then measures are taken whose final result is in the slightest September dubious and questionable, as is the case with the laws that we are discussing today. And one more important thing I have to point out again, hoping to finally reach the ears of the responsible if we keep saying it. And that's a 25% VAT rate, I know it's not the subject of this, but here you are, I have a chance to say. 25% of the hospitality which, according to relevant studies and analyses, directly endangers investment and thus the development cycle of tourism and has an indirect impact on the fact that workers have too little wages in the tourism sector. We have announcements from the tourism sector that they are ready to raise their salaries by 20% as soon as the state reduces taxes and tax burdens. Do you really not see it or do you not want to see it? Is there enough strength and abilities since part of you in the ministry from the tourist sector of the tourist regions and has given sufficient expertise to fight for the interests of Croatian tourism or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live directly or indirectly from tourism, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137680	Thank you, too. Last debate on behalf of the Advocacy Club, apology, breach of the Rules of Procedure, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137681	Mr. Vice President, the articles of the Rules of Procedure have been injured. For what reason? Namely, when Col. Daus began today's debate, none of the ministry's representatives, i.e. The government's representative was not present in the assembly. This shows how many government colleagues i.e. from the competent ministry, how boastful and boastful we are to the parliamentary representatives, i.e. to the institution of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137682	Thank you for your comment and for your instructions, my colleagues were probably at lunch, so I understand you, so yes, it's good that, I mean, it's not good, but it would be normal for everyone to talk about certain points of the ministry's representatives, but let's move on now. So as I said, on behalf of the Labour Party and solidarity and independent representatives of colleagues, Rezimir Varda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137683	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretary with associates. So, in cooperation with the TZ of the city of Zagreb, I have prepared this debate, I will be free, my manuscript with all remarks and suggestions under these three laws, and I hope that some of the remarks and proposals will be passed through the amendment of the Government, and some amendments will also be directed as a club, but first the Law on Tourist Communities. In view of Articles 16 and 60 of the Assembly’s introduction of supervision, I point out that it is a completely unclear and unnecessary reason for the removal of the supervisory board as bodies that have had an important role in the activities of the tourist community. We think that at least an option should be left to set up a supervisory board. In the proposed way, the arrangement results in the body that adopts the work programme and the financial plan being able to establish unsustainable behaviour even though it has been handled in accordance with the adopted work programme. There is also a question of what happens if congregation decisions are to be supervised. The independent auditor is also unable to oversee the work of the tourist community as a supervisory board, especially in the case of tourist communities with an income of more than 3 million kuna, which must be independent of the auditors for monitoring according to this proposal. In Article 53(1), which regulates the informal association of tourist communities and can only be determined by one joint activity, e.g. joint advertising or joint activities in a particular market. These tourist communities are defined as a unique destination. We believe that such an arrangement unnecessarily restricts the cooperation of tourist communities, especially in the case of Zagreb, since they would have entered this framework already successfully organised cooperation if it did not commit itself to action as a unique whole, which points to the immediate proximity of destinations. This would be important because the tourist community of the City of Zagreb as one of the larger ones could participate in the distribution of funds collected by law proposals for joint tourist communities in view of the reduction of funds. So much for the rest, I'll hand over the paper. As regards the membership law in tourist communities, Article 12 In Article 12, paragraph 9, you will continue to make a commitment to monthly data delivery to local tourist communities, the Croatian Tourist Board and the Ministry of Tourism on membership payments through the eVisitor system. This practice, according to the position of the City of Zagreb Tourist Board, has not been achieved in all 10 years of the application of the law so far, and it is unclear how it will be implemented through eVisitor, so I hope that through the final word you will explain it or will pass a special implementing regulation. In Article 12 of the bill, you do not specify deadlines in which a financial institution allocates funds from membership fees that exist in the current law and it is particularly important in practice to regulate this area, so we propose the adoption of the existing deadline. Here, we would like to highlight the common issues of the practice that the bill does not resolve, and it is necessary to regulate the handling of the obligation of the tourist community to submit forms for newly established legal or natural persons, whether the end of the tax period is pending or only then submitted by the tourist community form, or already in the year of establishment according to the achieved quarterly income, the reception is determined by monthly advances for the current year. As far as telecommunications and banks are concerned, we will join, as a club, an amendment that will be submitted to colleagues on group-by-group classification. As far as the law is concerned, I will cut short because I will hand over these papers to you, as far as the Tourist Tax Act is concerned, first of all, I would have to warn you of Article 17 in which you say that in paragraph 4, the owner of the house, apartment or apartment which pays the tourist tax at any given night is obliged to pay the tourist tax for himself and the persons staying in the house, apartment or apartment for the rest of the last day's stay. However, in the article, whether it is 15. you are talking to me about the deadline until, not in Article 12(3), you speak from 15 June to 15 September, I really don't understand now, whether it pays a fee from 15 June to 15 September, no matter how much it is given in the house for rest or pay until the last day of stay means, let's say by 1. 8. There's one, one discrepancy here, so it would be good for you to do it either through an explanation or through an amendment to solve it. In fact, we will propose to delete this obligation to pay the tourist tax until the last day of stay and determine payment by 15 September, given that by that date there is a payment obligation under Article 13(3). The person can stay longer than September 15th, so it is unnecessary to specify the last day of stay as a obligation to pay the tourist tax. I would like to give you so much for now, and the amendments will be prepared by the end of the debate with what I said that the club will support this amendment that will be submitted to the position of telecommunications and banks because if it stays that way, I can tell you that only the City of Zagreb Tourist Board would lose around 10.5 million kunas on this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137684	Thank you for having finished our discussions on behalf of the club of representatives and we are going to have an individual debate, first reported by colleague Davor Vlaović Croatian Peasant Party, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137685	Thank you Vice-President and distinguished state secretaries with associates, colleagues and colleagues of these 3 laws we are discussing today, the Law on Tourist Communities, the Law on membership in tourist communities and the Law on tourist tax should be a tool for the Ministry of Tourism, Croatia to go towards the goal of developing tourism, to develop the management of a tourist destination, to develop and represent those regions and regions that currently do not have developed tourism, at least do not have the form and quantity we would like from HSS. Because recently the minister boasted that we have reached a strategic number of 20 million tourists in Croatia, which is nice to hear. However, the fact that many of them have just gone through Croatia or what is even worse for us in Croatia that many of them have spent almost nothing in Croatia. Especially here, I mean that part of transit tourism where we take the highway from Bregana, Zagreb to Bajakova through the sea of potential tourists, that we haven't done much to stop them from turning to Vinkovce, Ilock, Slavonski Brod or Požeg and thus contribute to that tourist traffic. I also want to say that it is not good to base ourselves on this elite tourism, on hotels 4, 5 stars, well that we have them in Croatia and that is one trend in the world on the tourist scene, and also on us to develop it well, but what does not satisfy us that we have achieved through this economic effect, we have achieved 12 billion EUR gross turnover, gross revenues from tourism, it does close to or almost 20% of Croatia's GDP, because it is not good to focus on that part and on such a form of tourism, but that we must build roads to the Croatian economy, Croatian family agricultural economies, Croatian craftsmen and entrepreneurs participate in this with their products, with their services, with food produced in Croatian fields. Unfortunately, the vast majority of these elite destinations on the plate are hosted by imported food and we haven't used it and we haven't made enough effort to change it. When it comes to continental tourism, investment and the growth of the number of tourists in the continental area of the undeveloped areas, I am particularly interested in the development of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, then it is commendable that it has finally started to brand, to strengthen the tourist offer and visibility of Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem as a tourist destination. He's been late for more than twenty years, and the situation is that even those who wanted to deal with continental, rural or what we're going to call him, tourism in Slavonia, have moved most of them out of Slavonia because they didn't get real support. Recently in Berlin, Osijek-Baranja County has been presented, and this is good, but let us ask ourselves a question to you, 'cause last year Mayor Anusic yelled at the Ministry and Minister that he is not satisfied with the distribution of money from the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board for Continental Tourism because most of that money ended up in Istria, the Primorje-Gorski County, Zadar, and the smallest part came to Slavonia, and we want to develop Slavonia, we want to create jobs and in Slavonia, we want to develop a bar and tourism in Slavonia. And immediately behold wonders, afterwards here is the mayor of Osijek County at the fair in Berlin and nice to introduce themselves, but what about Vukovar-Srijem County, Brod-Posaviska, Požak, Virovitičko, and they would develop their area and tourism in their area. I believe that through this joint project and they will be looked after and included in the programme of branding Slavonia, Baranja and Srijema both wishes and development of tourism in these areas. But here's the sign that as soon as the mayor got his hands on it right away, here's the Osijek County at the Berlin Fair, but 'why weren't they representatives, and the tourist offer from other Slavonian counties, I'd like to hear the answer to that, and I hope that's no longer going to happen if we advertise just one county. What I'm still saying is that I've been doing a research like we have marketing, as we have in our tourist destinations in Slavonia, if we have management that can meet these new challenges where we want to develop both elite tourism, health and cyclotourism, and so on, and the results are devastating. The stakeholders I contacted most often responded that there was insufficient, insufficient potential of this tourist management in these tourist destinations in these tourist communities, and something about it was also spoken by a colleague Lenart on behalf of the Club, because most often in the tourist communities, people who came in political lines who did not deal with tourism and who did not have the knowledge or the skills needed to be adequately engaged in tourism, and the development projects they created are subject to political influence because the president of the tourist community is the current mayor, mayor or mayor, and therefore he said, and I repeat need to make a policy out of it, to create this tourist management in those tourist destinations, especially in the continental area, because he is not currently available, has sufficient knowledge and skills, and neither does anyone try to educate them and create real tourist managers in those areas. And because there are none, that we haven't presented enough either Ilock, or Vukovar, or Slavonski Brod, and especially our golden valley in Požega County, we haven't taken advantage of those potentials, and I would also like to say that we have a series of events that take place in these local communities, regional communities such as treasured riding, such as the Vinkova autumns, Đakovci alliances where we represent our potential, heritage and our indigenous breeds, and I think that the Ministry of Tourism should work on it with the leadership of tourist communities from Slavonia, that we should follow those manifestations better, because we gather there, have fun, sing, show the costume, but who? Mostly on your own. Why is it not the Ministry of Tourism, these manifestations helped in a better way to bring guests to them, of course it's not the Ministry's job, but there are travel agencies, travel agencies that do it, but it's not profitable for them because it's hard to sell. And that's why my suggestion was in the replica of the secretary of state, and now I repeat that the project is designed to be co-financed to travel agencies, travel agencies, tourist agencies by every available guest, if it is already going to attract tourism at sea, then it has to go to attract guests in Slavnia, Baranja and Srijem, and other undeveloped tourist areas, but it's not coming in itself, I said I should further develop these tourist destinations through the development of management, investing in this management, but also giving it tools to through support, through a more balanced schedule of these funds from the Undeveloped Fund, which we suggest from the HSS that there should not be 2% but here we asked 3.5% of the amendment to accept it, and it is not only good that the Minister of the Regulations determines who and how these funds are special that these funds can't be reported here and the tourism communities of the local self-government, so that we can't afford to change the resources that we can't be able to use these resources, because we can't be able to use these resources from the resources, because we can't afford to make money, because we don't pay money, we can't pay money, because we don't pay money, because we can't pay money, because we can't pay money, we can't pay money, because we can't pay money, because we can't pay money, because we can't get money, because we can't get money, because we can't the money. Because respected secretary of state, the largest number of young people eviction, educated people is because they can't find a job, which they can't sell on their doorstep their cool, their wine, because VAT is still 25% on service activities and it's not accepted to reduce VAT on our food products to be more competitive than the environment and therefore there won't be any growth of tourism traffic, and it would certainly be good to design a project as people from the highway turn into Slavonski Brod, Vinkovce, Ilock, and you haven't done anything about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137686	We have three replicas for your presentation. So, these are colleagues Vesligaj, Mikulić and Pranic. First up is a colleague, Marko Vesligaj. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137687	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Vlaović, I will certainly agree with you that in this set of laws that we have here in HS today, there is little emphasis on continental tourism that is very different from the tourism that we have very developed tourism on our seashore. I must say at the beginning that I am a little saddened, that was said in the first reading, a time when it started to go into just e-consumption, at 9 months, when, say, the peak of the season as regards continental tourism, in particular I can say that from the aspect of the Krapina-Zagorian County that I come from where we have the main events at exactly 9 months, and there has shown the ministry unfortunately one ignoring of this continental tourism in which we have very great potential at the level of the entire Republic and the talks that I had with the tourist workers, they have just highlighted it as one of the main problems, a lack of these concrete measures. We've got some moves in the law, but it's too small for those who need the most help.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137688	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137689	Thank you, my colleague, we agree in our thinking that we must work more seriously to bring guests into the continental part, especially when we see that Dubrovnik in certain months is too choked, that it is similar and already with Split, I am pleased that they have an increase in traffic, but this guest also wants to see something else from the Republic and he will not often organise it himself. We have, for example, a part of the guests come from Dubrovnik in Stari Kapela, but it is based on the private acquaintances of the people of Stara Kapela, Nova Kapela, with the people of Dubrovnik, there is no systematic work of the tourism community of the Ministry of Tourism to connect the tourist community of Nova Kapela with some stakeholders who participate in the attraction of tourists in Dalmatia and to bring them from a few days to Slavonia, to see that there is also in Slavonia what to eat and drink, and then especially when they see our costume and tradition and song, they are surprised that it exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137690	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague Mikulić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137691	I thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Vlaovic, in one large part of your exposure and I agree with you, but I would like to correct you one thing, one thing and clear you up a little bit. It is not Osijek County, but Osijek-Baranja County, which at the invitation of the embassy was in Berlin and represented not only the Osijek-Baranja County, but the entire Slavonia, which our mayor always points out. Our interest and interest in all counties is Slavonia, as a unique tourist destination, which are co-signatures and all and other 4 mayors, so we perform as one unique tourist destination because we are not such a large country that we can further disperse. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137692	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137693	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I agree with you that it takes all four, all five counties of Slavonian joint perform because we are too small to represent each one in particular, so I am surprised that at the Berlin Fair there was only the Osijek-Baranja County and you are right and the Baranci are angry that we often forget them, we often shorten, so we say the name of the county in the capital, I apologize to them, but they often do so to the mayors themselves, so we should think that we must take care of each end, about each village, and that we must create a prerequisite for the development of tourism both in Lipik and in Pakrac, as it develops in Baranja because Baranja is a nice example where again on the basis of private initiative, enthusiasts, because we have come to that level, very little or too little have had support from the social community. The county must have participated, but in the Baranjac's view, talk to them, they certainly didn't... A lot more, and so too. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And other parts of Slavonia. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137694	Comrade Pranic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137695	Thank you, Vice President. Coliga Vlaović, you mentioned in your presentation, I can absolutely agree, the placement of food and drinks through tourism should be our strategic policy and guidelines for further development and it is not the problem here to talk about the unification of tourist communities, but we should connect agriculture and culture with tourism, only then can we talk about rural areas and the end of the Dalmatian Zagor depopulation, like and Slavonia and what we do and not enough guidelines to communicate the bar for the future programming period because when you see the programme by the Ministry of Culture, we see where the money is injected and in which way without the plan, without strategy. It doesn't matter what kind of gastro offer or financing the event, it's important to connect agricultural... and indigenous agricultural products. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't even know how many wines we have indigenous, this complementarity of individual ministries that should be imported if we really want to develop from tourism these other accompanying branches that our people don't move out of that area. 'Cause later on, we're not gonna be able to offer anything else for a couple of years. [[Intruder: Thank you...]] It's the empty houses of those people. [[Intruder: Thank you...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137696	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137697	Thank you. My colleague, here we have debated similarly and it is not for the worse once again, that it is nice to hear the number of 12 billion euro gross revenues from tourism. However, all of us would be, and especially we from HSS, happy that within those 12 billion of purchases, sales, agricultural products, food products, from our family OPGs and from our food companies from the Republic of Croatia, some of them are in that traffic, however, very little to be satisfied and therefore I think that in conversations with the hotelers, they often invite our OPGs to cooperate but still this level of production and continuity, the possibility of supplying these hotel houses is too little and too late and with this construction of the refrigerant where they could store these products, and then we can't continue to supply these ones and the most important thing is that this offer is on the very doorstep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137698	Thank you. Comrade Mikulić, here you are, an individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137699	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice-President of the Parliament, the Honorable Secretary of State with his associates, respected colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. Here we are in front of us in the second reading is this package of laws on tourism, tourism as a sector that records changes at an incredible rate, which is why it is necessary to adapt it to the market, predict situations and react in time. For Croatia, it is extremely important because it is the most profitable branch and its share in GDP is very important. These draft laws certainly provide positive guidance towards destination tourism and towards stronger marketing of destinations, according to the association that makes it modern, which makes it called for the challenges we have today in this sector. I am pleased to see that the good part of my colleagues and my colleagues' proposals have also been found that we found in our first reading in these proposals of the law, such as river cruisers or an increase in wages from 30% to 40%, and that is exactly what I am also hoping that these proposals that I would present today will also be appreciated. Since I come from the continent, from Osijek-Baranja County, I will try mostly to refer to the continental part of the tourism that we have begun to deal with very intensively, from which we have really great expectations and in cooperation with you we are working to strengthen Slavonia through a separate brand, through one tourist unit, 5 Slavonian counties. This bill makes it very clear that we define the tasks of tourist communities, we go to decentralisation and destination tourism which is good and that I absolutely support but also we must be aware that for a good tourist product, for its promotion, for a strong destination, for a good tourist worker is also necessary and significant financial resources, we have done this in a multi-year period on coastal work which today represents a truly excellent tourist product that we are all proud of and is essentially the result of these multi-annual investments both in the public and private sectors, investments in essentially all of us in the restoration and maintenance of and cultural heritage and the construction of ports and roads and significant promotion of our Adriatic. The fact is that the investment intensity on the continent was significantly lower that the circumstances of the past did not practically allow us to grow significantly and develop within the tourism sector. I think it's precisely the right time for these, to call them successful destinations to help less developed and less successful to further develop our offer and to extend the zone because it would only point out that on our continent the tourist season essentially begins at the time when the season on the Adriatic ends. Tourism is definitely waking up on the continent, we have a lot to offer from both culture and sports and from the mono- Gastronomic offer of natural beauty but to put it all into the function of tourism in the ratio we want, it is necessary, of course, to make significant financial resources. That is why my proposal would go in the direction that the funds allocated from the residence tax into this fund for undeveloped people that we certainly commend, instead of the estimated 2.5% issue, which would mean a clear message to the continent, which would mean financial inflows to our TZs and would create one assumption of changing trends that we have today in this sector in the Republic of Croatia di Continent far lags behind the coastal area. This proposal of large publishing for the underdeveloped goes right from the membership fee for which we can realistically expect that one day and will be abolished, given that it is a force for entrepreneurship and economy, and that we understand, I absolutely welcome the reduction of administrative burdens and the cost of business to our economies, but precisely because of the reduction of administrative discharges, we will have a reduction of resources within the TZs themselves and we must somehow compensate for the very existence of tourist communities, I would like to welcome the proposal to approach the alignment in relation to the original incomes, which in the beginning of underdevelops allows the original budget of half a million kuna, which is certainly a quality form of assistance to our tourist communities but, as I said, given the obvious desire to develop and marketing destinations both us on the continent and I believe you in the ministry, creating a quality tourist product which will result in both economic and social effects, mainly in continental tourism tourism, largely, depending on the income that you are not being made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137700	We have two replicas, the first colleague of Sladolev, here you go, the second one's a colleague of Bacic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137701	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Mikulić, therefore, I have only one question, so it is disputed for me in this law to define who can be the director of the tourist community, rather than by law. Why do I say this, because the rule can be changed with the permission of the minister and because I think the law is more necessary and that the law should define that the director of the city's tourist community, the county can not remain for life, that his term of office can be extended indefinitely from 4 years. 'Cause I think it's a possibility of abuse for embezzling party personnel, not professions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137702	Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137703	I thank you, Vice President. Well, as far as the directors of the tourist community are concerned, as far as I'm aware, this law is exactly what's being solved. They will have a term of four years, so I think the situation in the very proposals of the law has kind of been ironed out. And as for the rules, they're prescribed. They're brought by a minister if I'm not mistaken in 30 days. They're also susceptible to change. But I also believe the situation in the future will be different so that why not leave the possibility of the regulation changing if necessary to allocate these funds as it is at a given time and necessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137704	Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137705	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Mikulić, for the most part, you have looked back at the areas from which you come, which is the area of Osijek-Baranja where normal emphasis is on continental rural tourism. In Dalmatia, I think that most of the capacity we have certainly filled that all the emphasis in Dalmatia is on strengthening infrastructure and other segments of investment in tourism itself. But looking at this newspaper in this tourist package and this very fund of tourism for underdeveloped areas in which 9% will stand out. But what you mentioned is the original budget of individual tourist communities that will increase to 500 thousand kunas of the budget and the other funds for investment in continental rural tourism, I believe that it is ultimately insufficient or will show some shifts especially if we put these 12 million kunas that will be used by the Association Fund.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137706	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137707	I thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, continental tourism has a lot of similarities with certain parts and your county, including Istrian tourism, which is perhaps the most developed. But it still seems 68% of Istria belongs to this undeveloped part. So any aid to the underdeveloped part and this fixed original income of half a million kuna will certainly be the assumption that some things in these undeveloped areas of tourism change, that these trends that we have changed. Because every part of Croatia I believe has something to offer. I'm just saying with a good plan, with a good vision, ideas and financial resources that will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137708	Thank you. Let's welcome the students and students of the school Viktorovac from Sisak who joined us in the Parliament. Welcome! We're continuing an individual debate. [[Applause]] Next up, she's a colleague of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137709	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister with Associates. Well, colleagues and colleagues, I think we should always commend all those laws that come here in two readings, especially when we have amendments or that all the proposals and remarks from the first reading are considered, which is why certain remarks are included in the final bill, which is not. As I come from Sibenik-Knin County, there have been a lot of objections to Article 73, so here are these thanks and commendation for the amendment of Article 73. The laws on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism, so that tourist communities can continue to work on the site. I would like to point out and commend the work of these small tourist communities on this occasion. Namely, our area was the Tourist Board of Jezera, Betina, Zlarin, Krapanj, Brodarica and Grebaštica. For example, the Jezera Tourist Board was founded in 62. He makes 300,000 overnights. There are even more nights, than there is only Tisno, and Tisno because the municipal centre would remain and continue to work, and this would be attached. Their expenses are below 30% for employees' salaries. They're not in charge of credit. They meet all their obligations neatly. In the time since 2002, they received 11 times the Blue Flower in a particular category as county, as well as the state and Croatian tourist communities. And I think they deserve great support from the Ministry of Tourism and of course from the Croatian Tourist Board. Zlarin needs and opens the Croatian Coral Centre, and it is certain that the tourist community will again best recognise the needs of guests and its local population who are engaged in catering and tourism and are able to help them. The shipmaid records an increase of 4 to 7% each year and so on. However, there are some provisions of the law that have been found in the second reading that have not been on the e-consumption and for which I would like to pray this occasion to the promoter, the Ministry of Tourism, once again, to consider how to regulate them. Article 32(2) of the same Act means about tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism enables those tourist communities that have 2 million nights to work their operating marketing. Here I agree, indeed one city of Dubrovnik and similar cities such as Poreč, Rovinj, Zagreb, Lošinj, they deserve a special treatment. However, there is a need to think about what will happen if fewer tourist communities begin to join together, and I'm afraid that they could, especially in political commitment and then reach that number of 2 million nights so that they can go out on their own, unlike for example. The Tourist Board of the City of Vodice, which made almost 1 and a half million overnight stays last year, and given this provision, it cannot. It is very important to stress that there are tourism communities that have 2 million nights but non-commercial, have over 80% non-commercial nights. And now they, regardless of their non-commercial nights, no matter what their incomes are not so high, will be able to go out on their own and the tourist community, for example. The city of Vodice doesn't. We must, or all of us in this rank that we are accomplishing here are almost 1.5 million overnight stays, and we must implement a regional strategy and, for example, we must. When a regional strategy is implemented we know how it usually ends, then everyone has to co-finance a specific project at regional level. Then it is said that the city of Vodice, or the tourist community, achieves the highest number of overnight stays, you have the highest incomes and you can choose to allocate the most funds to the county tourist community. And then when that money is deployed, or when it's done, then it's done again to make sure that the solidarity to help the little one is the most. I'd ask you to take another look and see what the number is, for example. This figure is lower than 2 million nights, maybe 1.5 million to make sure that these are some centers here, like I say Vodice, to make sure they're commercial overnights, not to include non-commercial and their incomes. Another thing that was found in the final proposal, and it was not at the e-consultation and in the first reading, that the director of the tourist community appointed a tourist council for a term of four years. It is explained and said the newspaper that the tourist board is elected by the Director in time of 4 years to ensure continuity in the performance of professional tasks as well as to achieve a higher level of responsibility in the performance of the Director and for the purpose of professionalising the Director's function. I think that just because of continuity shouldn't limit them to four years, if they're not quality after a year, there's a legal possibility of getting rid of them from duty, and if they're good at why, we know what's going on in the last election year. Then you can't normally think about future projects on long-term plans, but you're thinking about whether in that year you're going to get a competitor who might have a stronger political or other influence, we're going to call for tenders, we're going to conduct a procedure, we're going to have more candidates, we're going to have conversations with all of them, and of course the mayor himself, the mayor himself, the mayor, or the mayor himself, wishes to have that candidate who has the continuity that he's proven himself, and then it's all together, it seems to me a little mocking with those remaining candidates. Since we've already given them the opportunity to work completely, but every year they have a certain test, I think that would be fine. She would also commend because as mayor, I had experience because you are also the president of the tourist community. To lead a tourist community so as not to say in larger cities, seats for those who have talked about over 2 million overnights and in 10 million kunas budget it is to lead more than one smaller municipality and it is really very demanding and I support this provision that delegates it to another person. As well as this restriction on the share of the cost of employees’ salaries in total revenues. So it's okay to be only 40% because we've witnessed that some tourist communities had a purpose themselves because over 90% and 90%, respectively, were singled out for personal employee incomes. Here I would ask you about these two provisions when it comes to 2 million nights to think about it, so if you can reduce it to at least 1.5 million and about the directors of tourist communities, I think it's enough for a test every year, so we don't have to re-schedul every four tenders now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137710	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137711	Thankfully Chairman, I think we should keep repeating the importance of tourism in the Republic of Croatia, it is huge and if we are only tourism looking through the current situation and I see through the GDP which is currently I think we will be wrong to make this law that has been passed, it has been passed this all three laws just to be beautiful, for beauty will not bring any real help even I see that even the banks broomd from the first to the third group to pay less this membership fee, and also the teleopers you see this is very important they have a small profit in Croatia. In Croatia they have a margin of 42% not only are our political elites of that time you remember how neatly they handed this over to a foreign teleoperator our infrastructure by robbing it, and I see that you are neatly without it, in this law you are properly provoking respected secretaries. You'd be leading the minister here, he explains a little bit how it's possible you're looking for a cut that banks pay less, it's going to be your banks if they fail. Every day, the headlines that these banks are foreign to the collapse in Croatia are that the small margin of 4 billion kuna is drawn annually without interest. Imagine that 4 billion kuna on fees and commissions each year 4 billion to our citizens invested in our tourism. Is the teleoperators that have a profit in Croatia 42% margin, and in RU 20%, don't trim their building permits you know, you and Klisa, my neighbor, for that base station, have seen the hip, not the tribune building permit, it's funny that, in a historical place where Kliška jumps defended our Dalmatia base station like space, as a launch lamp for spaceships and that's normal that's a smile from our ministry on our fortress Kliški jumps defended. You see fellow Shuker when he goes down as much as the base station, it's wonderful It's so touristly attractive and remarkable on... The walls to see that base station. [[You don't understand.]] You've seen how nice it is to see your colleague Bačić and you're still free to pay, let go of a lower group, feel sorry for them. And don't complain about that grandmother that she sold for her bow or the hood, or the panchet, or the cheese doesn't complain about her when she's caught selling it there along the way. Grandma goes straight to jail. I think you need to change these two things I said. You know what I'm talking about. I'll give the amendments. I will now instruct him to change it, because we have nothing to save or teleopers because they do not behave in Croatia as in their own countries. At least if they were to behave in Croatia as in their own countries, then it would be somewhat ok to talk to them. However, they are not and that is why I believe that this should be changed, that they should pay us well, that they pay us all the benefits in the Republic of Croatia and how much profits they make. I know that Misetic Dynasty is not satisfied with this and that she has too much influence on your government, but I think that's how it should be done. We had a similar problem in Sinj. We also had a million problems, not just you in Cliss about these things. We have a Sinj Alka which is a brand... Split-Dalmatia County, the largest county we have ours, you all come to Alka. We have our sanctuary... The lady of the blue south largest Marian sanctuary. [[You don't understand.]] We've had enough of those brands, but we've also got a Sinj field that's unprocessed. And if anything should be connected, it's agriculture and tourism. Anything that needs to be combined is agriculture and tourism. Without it, believe me, there's no getting as much as it should be because I can't imagine that in the Vrhorak field, in the Sinjsko field there's no draining at our Ante in Vrgorec. The other day I was. Flooded the brothers' lake. You see, the tourist attraction of vineyards under the lake. It's hard to invest down in Zagora, but it... problem. [[You don't understand.]] We have meaning of my Chetinian landscape, the Sinj field that also has Cetina I said. We also have our backs. So, the origin of fellow Shuker who can also be a potential area for the survival of these people in tourism. We have a date and these roads across the White Hill up on... So, however, no one cares about these people. ... [[You don't understand.]] It's interested in blue prosciutto, head cabbage, livan cheese from ours... [[You don't understand.]] is not an import. [[You don't understand.]] Growth in imports is important, and these people will stay ours in Zagora or in Herzegovina, in the hinterland or in the area of the Lithuanian, Danube area, nobody cares. Empty villages. Here's you who came from there, I'm from Zagor, you're from Zagora, here's a colleague from Vrlika, our new colleague, emptying everything. You can't hear children crying. Is that tourism? Is it tourism that we have a factory by the Krka River that's this morning, that we have chemicals spill out of it yesterday? Of course, Fatty needs to be forgiven. Yeah? That's what you'll forgive him for. He'll sponsor what he needs, don't worry. But we need to forgive, it's a campaign now. But you can't let him poison the Krka River, let the chemicals pour out to the Krka National Park. Well, that's the Sibenik-Knin County brand of fellow Martinchev. It's a brand, Krka's a brand. Here, you give me a line and tell me if it's a brand and that's what you need to talk about? Krka National Park is still the only oxygen that gives little in this area hope of survival in the area of life. So we have to protect domestic production, not as tourism grows, the number of visitors, the number of nights you boast so that we grow and import increases. So we're approaching 3 billion euros in food products. So 3 billion food products, harmful food products. We've got top-notch prosciutto, we've got Dalmatian prosciutto, we've got this fantastic climate, brazen. You're all, uh, neatly come along, it's gonna be a campaign now. It'll be on Friday you can come to Sinj we have to see the blue prosciutto. What's the problem? Import, import. Because what's that prosciutto made of, which pork? From where? What meat, from where? Where there's food that knows what to eat, GMOs. I gave because of this and the law banning GMOs for a complete other than medical purpose, not to give us in freezers from other countries over who they import pork fed to GMOs. And then how are you gonna do it? I mean amazing. Apparently everybody smells like pork, pigs when he's growing it, and when it comes to prosciutto, then the lines are waiting around the Swedish table, everyone's here neatly. I think we really need to seriously say that those who have to pay to pay membership fees and obligations and that we can't let those who draw huge money get him out like this get him out. I said the same thing you do to banks, and to teleopers who don't behave, I repeat them like I do in my own countries. And we will join the ministry to be a joint work of the Ministry of Tourism and the Ministry of Agriculture, and not you, to our tenants, of whom tourism depends on which half boards and pensions offer tourists. You banned here I told a building fish to bake just to go to big restaurants. Well, of course, we need to encourage the O.P.G.s. I am proud of the gastronomic offer of the Chetino End. You've all heard of blue arambaches, pepper bread, head cabbage, you're all, I mean, we're all tied up here, we're not far from each other. I'm proud of it and I don't see any reason... sell in pensions and half-boards that you don't have to be on offer. [[You don't understand.]] Yes, of course. I think that's exactly what it takes, not to sell me a head cabbage imported from Italy. He saw the heads when he just walked through the truck to the restaurant. Or top-notch products as far as wine, prosciuttos or brazen, so we have to fight to put that offer where we should, and we have so many pearls of touristic, I mentioned only my city you all know here in Sinj in Cetina krajina, Sinjska alka and the miracle lady Sinjska, so we go down to the Imotski end, so we go down to Vrgoračka end full of tourist identity, and you from Klis please train the secretaries to remove that base station and it's the spit. by people. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137712	Thank you. We have two replicas on your display, the first colleague is Bacic. Here's my colleague Bacic, and I'm also telling you that this is your third replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137713	Well, then I'm glad I took advantage of my colleague, thank you, Vice President, and here's a little bit of writing down the words you mentioned in a piece of this teleoperate thing I can even agree with you here we definitely need to collect as much as possible. But you mentioned the constant brand, Zagora, food and community, the community in particular in these two ministries can agree with you there. So I believe that you will ultimately support this, this package of tourism laws because the main intensity of this package is just to encourage the association of tourist communities. So here you are as city councilman, as a prominent person of the Cetina region, I think you can also advocate that the Cetinski end finally unites around this story to unite the tourist communities to take advantage of this way and to offer and their products, to take advantage of all the opportunities and see in which direction this will develop further, but we think that this is definitely the future of the entire Dalmatian mountain, especially when we look at this segment of tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137714	Thank you. Here's your answer, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137715	Yes, I'm proud to come from the Cetina region, and this is where I came in with my son's cap for the first time and there was no problem in my uniform and of course I'm going to talk about this gastronomic offer that's not being used because the Sinj field is empty, the weeds are growing. I'm sorry there are no more shepherds in our region of the Dalmatian Mountain, you're even deeper in the Dalmatian Zagora, and I hope you realize we shouldn't insult the shepherds. We must not send that message, we should be proud of Ivan Meštrovic, who is a shepherd, that is, we have there Ivan Meštrovic where he was born, we have the best football player who is a choban, we have no shepherds, there is a colleague in the Vrgorak region very little, in my Cetin area very few shepherds, very little cattle. So there's a domestic lamb, and now the teeth are flushing, so we've got something to show for it, we've got something to show for it. However, this law is only written to reduce rent banks and teleopers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137716	Thank you, colleague Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137717	Kolega Bulj, tourism is definitely the most important economic branch in Croatia, but let's also look at which the ministry has the least money from the state budget, namely the Ministry of Tourism, I don't doubt the team in the Ministry of Tourism, nor do I suspect the last team from the Ministry of Tourism that they don't want to start the development of tourism. And it is no problem that 4, 5 tourist communities will join together specifically for me will be very important that the town of Vrgorac is likely to join the Makarska Riviera because so is our intensity in some further development of rural tourism. But if we want to make one crucial big move, move into tourism, and we need to provide more resources to the roof tourism ministry from the state budget, and I am sure that this will lead to further tourist landscapes of our entire country, primarily rural areas of Croatia. Not to mention the complementarity of agriculture and tourism. So let every councilman go to the East Tyrol and let's see how people work. So is that a copy problem? Well, it's not a problem to rewrite a model. the activities of the integration of agriculture and tourism. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137718	Thank you, sir, for your reply to the replica of my colleague Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137719	Tourism is very important in the Republic of Croatia, but without agriculture there is no effect mainly on survival and demographic measures in these areas. If I had just repeated this to my colleague Bačić that the triba is accepted by these people who are shepherds and shepherds as men who are honorable and honest do their job, they should not belittled. Tribamo means to combine agriculture and livestock, tribamo, tribam the whole story back to that of returning production to the OPGs and that our renters in tourism can mainly sell their i.e. in the continental part. offer your gastro offer on in your pensions. And that's the only point, and if it all comes down to it, if it all comes down to the fact that we're the only one protecting teleopers by this law to cut down on them and the banks that are milking out of citizens' pockets 4 billion kuna a year on fees, 4 billion dollars on fees. Then this law is just for make-up. [[Thank you, Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137720	Let us welcome the students and students of the Marushevec High School who joined us in the assembly, good afternoon and welcome. We continue with an individual debate, following is colleague Branko Grcic. [[Applause.]] Here's a colleague of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137721	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's until fellow Bully finishes this debate we will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137722	A colleague of Bulj and a colleague of Bačić, please. Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137723	So, I welcome the tourism ministry team, this morning we discussed these points on the board and I can only say that a good part of these proposals is personally acceptable to me, it represents a step forward in terms of I would say both organisational and financial strengthening of tourist communities and let us not forget when we are talking about the system of tourist communities, we are also indirectly talking about the budget of the tourism ministry, so that is the money that serves for similar purposes. Therefore, all of this should be put on a pile and see in fact how much money from institutions is being poured into Croatian tourism. So let's not always look at just the isolated budget of the ministry, let's look at what it does and what projects money invests on and spends on and on the system of tourist communities. In this sense, I welcome one more thing, which is that now it is going towards greater control of money spending in tourist communities, and I particularly welcome the idea that the salaries of employees cannot be spent more than the amount found here in the law, and just to open up more space for projects, to finance concrete projects to improve the tourist offer and at the same time to strengthen promotional activity for a particular destination. So these are all some good things I'd like to help support in these laws, but of course, as in any story, there are some buts in this one. Part of this has already been mentioned in previous discussions especially when it comes to the membership system, so this territorial representation of membership fees, especially when it comes to some sectors such as telecommunications, is something else that the Ministry should work on together with other services, ministries, institutions of the state, that the money there should be directed towards tourism and tourism communities, indeed and directed at this local principle, not that money is being left in the seats of these large companies, and we know where these seats are, more or less, it is Zagreb. And then there was the centralisation of funding from membership fees, but as far as I understood my tourism colleagues from the Ministry of Tourism, this would continue to be done to ensure that what was in principle defined in practice and implemented. But today I wanted to open another topic which is also mentioned here, and I think it is very important for the future development of tourism in Croatia and that we must stress and encourage it all the time, I would say responsible, and that is, above all, the Government and the Ministry of Tourism to move the situation in the right direction, of course, the tax burden of tourism, the tourism activity that was greater in 2019 than it was in 2011. In an attempt to create a better business environment and to really encourage those sectors in the country that really contribute to the large extent of creating GDP, then and to the standard of living of many of our people, we simply need to come into the situation to be brave and determined to make decisions on reducing tax burdens in tourism. Certain worldwide research has shown that Croatia was in a ungrateful 130th place a year ago when it comes to total tax burden on tourism activity. This has far removed us from some of our competitors especially those in the Mediterranean where you have this list where Spain is the first, France is the second, let's say our neighbour Italy is the eighth, Greece is the 20th sixth, and Croatia is only thirty-two in the tourism sector. And the biggest negative contribution to that is a huge tax burden, and that's a clear message. So I read all of this to you from the study of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce which I thank and this way on a very, very nice, convenient analysis that shows it. The same study says that the VAT rate on hotel accommodation is 20th largest in the European Union, so only six countries are behind us, and as many as 15 countries have a rate of less than 10%. I remind us that the rate is now 13%, and it used to be 10%, so it was raised to 13% because we introduced three VAT rates in Croatia, 5, 13 and 25 percent at the moment, so we couldn't leave it to ten or we can't bring it down to eight, we can only be at five or thirteen, just 13 at the moment. As I say, we're twenty-two at the height of that rate, and we're totally uncompetitive compared to our competitors, especially in the Mediterranean. As far as catering is concerned, you well know this government is currently raising that rate from 13% to 25%, and that's currently twenty-eightth, so we're in the last place at the height of that rate in terms of adverse influence on the state of the catering sector. Therefore, both in one room and in the other, both accommodation, hotel accommodation and catering, so food and drink preparation, must go into a new procedure and this sector, this sector, further encourages the tourism sector and makes it more competitive. I'll tell you what happened when we cut the VAT rate in the catering industry in 2013 which happened in the next two years with that sector in '14, '15. During that period of just two years, the number of catering employees, thanks to new investments and investments, rose from 20 thousand to 31,000, total income generated in the catering sector in two years from 4.3 billion to 8.1 billion kuna, almost doubled. Imagine what the effects are. Well, I have to say, it's probably part thanks to new investments, but it's probably part of people coming out of the gray zone at a lower VAT rate and entering the official economy, so their income was registered, so that's also the expected positive effect of reducing tax burden. And another thing, in that period, the total cumulative profit of that sector was actually loss of 250 million kuna, so that two years later they would come into a cumulative profit of 180 million kuna, therefore positive, on the positive side of the axis we got, we came with it. As for investments, over the period of two years, a billion and a half kuna investments were found, it increased to as much as 3.5 billion in 2015. Therefore, no doubt the effects in all key business parameters of the tourism sector are due to tax discharge. This is not Branko Grcic invented, I say all of this is data from relevant people and institutions who have been doing the HGK project and have proven and assessed the effects of lower tax rates, less tax burden on the tourism and catering sectors, and that is why we in the SDP have already decided to launch one parliamentary initiative, and then here if we have to discuss only this and say first of all, return VAT to catering from 25% to 13%, so between 13% and think carefully, think whether or not this rate of 13% in hotel accommodation should be reduced to 5% because this is something that exists in our competing countries. I will repeat again, so as far as accommodation is concerned, 15 countries in the EU have a rate below 10%, is that 8, is it 6, is it 5%, in any case, this is the current state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137724	A fellow Greek, thank you. There's a replica on your exhibit, that's my colleague Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137725	Thank you very much. The truth is, a colleague of Greece, the differentiated rate of tourism was introduced in 2005 by 10%. For accommodation and nutrition, therefore, if this is the case, we called it a package of arrangements, you mentioned, introduced a differentiated rate only to the catering sector, but you forget what happened to you at the time. You had a plan, and you connected it to a reduction in the health contribution rate, and when it turned out to be a failure, you then increased the differentiated rate from 10% to 13%. And when you talk about the catering sector, actually in tourism, it wasn't as much investment in catering facilities as you said, you were talking about full investment in tourism, but I repeat, the differentiated accommodation rate and organised accommodation has been 10% since 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137726	Thank you. The answer of the esteemed Greek representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137727	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker, yes, you're right, I didn't deny it, so when there was a reduction, so I just said, the first sentence was that today in 2019 the tax burden was higher than in 2011, for what, exactly for the 3% that went from 10% to 13%, so I said it was bigger today than it was in 2011 when the same VAT was on catering or 24 or already how much it was. ... Yeah, well, okay, but that was the correction of that highest rate, so we understand what it's all about, right? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So I didn't question it, it's about the next one. So there was a balance at the time, it was determined that the new rate was 13 and not more than 10% not only in tourism but also in the entire segment of the economy wherever the rate of the rate of the rate was reduced is either 5% or 13%, so it was there as well. And on the other hand, this rate is up to 25 and unfortunately, now we have what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137728	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Ante Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137729	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Secretary of State, Glava, the esteemed assistant... esteemed adviser Mesic with a co-worker. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We are facing a package of tourism laws, here from the draft Republic of Croatia I think after almost 27, 28 years of functioning of this system of tourist offer in Croatia, especially regarding the tourist communities, we are changing this system, we have seen all the advantages and disadvantages that have been happening in the last 27 years, and I think it is the right time for some of the things that we say to shake up, little and the system to change, and that the actors in charge of the tourism sector, to focus on the new challenges that are ahead of us, so here are the commendations to you as representatives of both the Government and the Ministry which you have just set out in such changes. The Secretary of State has introduced us to the activities of 312 tourist communities across Croatia, which is quite impressive and quite a large number of what I think is in one respect and on the one hand and good that every place, every municipality that shows for this interest and which has something to offer for its destination, has the opportunity to establish its own tourist community and to deal exclusively with its own place, through these three laws I will be a little taxing pass, I think it is good to stress and ultimately all the good parts that will bring to force these packages of the law to our tourism sector, but it is normal to highlight some of the things that have come from the field which our or the tourist communities or associations have warned that we should perhaps further consider some things, so here we have often listened to the debate about the part of the directors of tourist communities where their mandate now restricts them. They're named for four years, which I mean led to, I'm not going to say a dispute of certain but here's a little bit of an alarm, but I think we can definitely think about it either because here and the assembly has a chance every year to discuss the work of the director and the tourist community itself, so there's always a chance to solve the same thing as here's all the reasons for resolving the directors are prescribed by this law. The novelty is that members of the tourist council are elected by the assembly on the proposal of the president of the tourist community and two members of the tourist council delegates only the ministry which we definitely also think is very good and progress. As for the very financial borrowing of the tourist community at the annual level, it is good that it no longer has to pass that magical figure of 50% and the abolition of the supervisory board itself, which has been here for the past 20 and a few years, has shown that it has not had a very special function in the tourist communities themselves. In this package of tourism laws, we see a clear direction of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding the development of tourism, which is destination management, and this is often mentioned in the very reasoning of the law and in the very provisions of the laws that I think is good. In 2019, when we discuss tourism, we can no longer rely on that old model of governance and tourist destinations or the management of the communities themselves, the tourist communities of individual places, areas, counties, municipalities and cities. And we have definitely achieved especially when we look at this marine part we have reached a certain maximum in terms of the development of certain tourist destinations and now we have to do what we say under quotes to invent something new. And this is something new to focus our tourist communities and our employees on focusing exclusively on their own areas, on their destinations, and on trying to extract their own maximum. As for the very establishment of a system of tourist communities at the head of destination management, here we see a series of provisions of the law in which the Ministry pushes the very tourist communities to move. It is just the establishment of a detour of the powers and competences of certain tourist communities starting from the lowest level we say tourist communities places to the main Croatian tourist community but the ministry itself where we see that the tourist communities spent most of their time on certain marketing activities, promotions and somehow more general things while here these responsibilities are being transferred to a higher level, and certain tourist communities are clearly showing how to act in the future and how to focus exclusively on their destination and how not to use and not to spend their resources. Especially here, we look at human resources in some of the unnecessary jobs they've been doing and doing today. As for determining the presidents of local and regional tourist communities who have been acting so far by the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors, mayors, I think it is a good thing that others can be appointed now because it was a titled somehow function that the mayors, mayors and mayors acted like. It is important to stress about the costs and limits of this part of the cost of wages in individual revenues of tourist communities where they are limited to 40% of the total income, which we know that in practice we have examples of individual tourist communities that existed solely for themselves to cover 90% of the salaries, and those 10% of their income left have invested in some small promotional activities that have not shown so much no result, no special progress. There's a lot of good that brings this package of laws. I'm not going to list it here, especially now. Greater coordination of the tourist communities themselves, greater transparency, promotion of destination tourism, etc. As far as this section is concerned, it is related to the tourist i.e. The former tourist fees here we see changes in the list of persons who pay the tourist i.e. the residence tax and that it is now descending to the level of the ministry i.e. that the Minister prescribes the minimum and maximum amount as the fees themselves determine what I think is good through the County Assembly itself. Of course, who will consult with their local tourist communities will not do it on their own, but I think it's a good instance that can prescribe the height of the same. We have seen in Split how little halabuca happened about the increase of the cot itself and how much it was used for some normal and political purposes. But in this section about residence and transfer to the county assembly will definitely bear fruit. As for the other debates we have heard during the day, there have been a lot of emphasis, and there we must mention the Fund for tourist underdeveloped areas, this part where the initial budget of 500 thousand kuna will be given to tourist communities each year, as well as the competitions and funds for the combined tourist communities of 12 million kuna. These are all good things that will focus our tourist communities on the ground to focus exclusively on their destination. But we have to watch the second segment. All that we are now investing in the tourist destination, and the competition, and the tourism-related programmes we must watch this coastal normal sea and island part of our tourist offer that has reached I repeat my maximum. And there definitely local communities but normally the state must watch how to strengthen and strengthen the infrastructure because we have achieved in some areas maximum capacity and what our roads and what our beaches and what our accommodation facilities can handle. Now we have to change the tactics here, invest a little harder in infrastructure. Here I don't have enough time, but I think there's only one session we could devote to Split and how much normal and accommodation capacity is missing, not to mention the roads and entrances, getting out of town, moving out of the station and the xy stuff that we're missing now so we can even stand the tourist capacity that's coming to us. And I am pleased that the ministry is thinking that by 2020 the strategy focuses on the position, the international position of Croatia, because here we know countries like Turkey that are destroying our part of the tourist offer with their price and offer. I definitely praise this association of tourist communities, especially the emphasis here on the Split-Dalmatia County which already has one such association, which is the IMOT of the Tourist Board of Imotske krajina which are here and recently presented their strategy which is currently working on their common video and marketing plan so that I think the bright is the future for those parts. And we see only by the statistics of accommodation facilities, holiday houses, houses with swimming pools, etc. We'll move on in the debate. [[Intruder Reiner: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137730	Thank you. Here are the two replicas he has on your exhibit, welcome to the gallery of students and students of the Second High School from Zagreb. ... And now we're going to move on to replicas, the first respected representative of the Greeks. [[Applause.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Bačić about this situation in Split about the attempt to raise the flat tax on private tenants three times, so of course we'll raise a fuss about it, because three times lift something, not 3%, not 30%, but three times, 300%, of course, it was unacceptable for us, but I have one more thing to say, perhaps it wouldn't be too much of a burden on one part of the tenant, and for some other very large and certainly would have prevented them from doing that at all. And one more thing, you know what was the explanation in the city why this fee is rising, why is the flat tax rising? To cover higher municipal costs. So in the meantime, the communals were also collecting, and then they should also raise the flat tax and hit the citizens twice to close the city balance, so that's not how it works. Of course, you'll agree with that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137732	Thank you. Dear Representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137733	Thank you, Vice President. I'm glad that my professor, Greekic, came forward, and we've already discussed something about it for the pausal, and I understand why the opposition went down and up from 350,00 to 700,00 kuna, but here I'm not personally a tenant, but by looking at the area exclusively of Split's city an increase from 350,00 to 700,00 kuna, although it sounds threefold, I don't think it would mean anything to renters in the city of Split, and we wouldn't have had the opportunity, what is said at the level, I'm going to call myself bile when we have that kind of Advent, or when we have such a tourist offer in the center of Split, because this is exactly the kind of money we would go to the development of us as a destination, and then we wouldn't be surprised to have random tourism, but here I't be convinced, but not one of the renter would have had any further problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137734	The next replica of the respected representative, Pranic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137735	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Bačić, you and I come from the same county, Split-Dalmatia and not our tourism, you have talked about destination, threatened the raise of VAT and so on, will endanger us and the scenario of Naples and southern Italy will happen to us regarding the waste. So we are literally at the edge or at the end of the deadline of the construction of the Waste Management Centre, which our County has not even started to build, and you all know what problems we have down there, and you all know the decisions now made by the Minister for the closure of the dump and on Brač, Hvar and Vis, and that is the crucial problem that will happen to us in the destination of our further development of the Split-Dalmatia County, the problem we have little talk about in public, a little talk at the level and the Assembly of our Split-Dalmatia County, and a little attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137736	The answer of the respected representative Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137737	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Praniæ can agree in one part, and that is that the waste... in the Split-Dalmatia County and solving the problem of waste is a very crucial problem, that a few days ago we signed a contract with the Ministry on the financing of the Regional Waste Management Centre in Lečevica that we can all testify, that the County is the first strategic and most important project that Mayor Blaženko Boban has been pushing since the first day he became mayor of Split-Dalmatia, which is still standing, the recovery of Kerepovac, you saw that it turns into a beautiful hill that will soon be a park, so we won't have any problems like southern Italy, Split-Dalmatia County is responsible for solving the problem of waste and very soon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137738	Thank you. The next individual debate was to be held by counterpart Pernar, gone, lost his right to debate, and will be debated by the next respected representative Dragica Vranjš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137739	I would like to thank the Vice-President, the Honorable Representatives of the Ministry of Tourism, State Secretary Glava, State Secretary Udovic and other associates. Here's a package of these three laws and I'm glad that in this second reading we've had changes that have been welcomed by the people of the field that I'm coming to. As far as the general membership fee is concerned, we must say openly that at the level of this government we have decided to face an immeasurable number of parafiscal duties which we have 3076 obligations for middle and small entrepreneurship which we have come up with by an analysis of 939 regulations. So our middle and small entrepreneurs must read one sea of regulations before them and constantly watch what they are obliged to pay. We've abolished so many, hundreds of regulations in the past year, we've also had a large number in 2019, we've had three action plans so far, so we've saved citizens, or entrepreneurship 1.6 billion kuna, and also 314 measures since 2020 are mentioned. And of course also that tourist membership tends to decrease when we only look at tourism, tourist communities, the Croatian Tourist Community and all the great projects that are financed from this membership fee, that it is not easy to give up that membership fee, but I certainly don't think we have to be afraid of it, because the same thing was about income tax, when we cut it, we already saw that we have bigger income incomes than income tax because the economy responded, we had bigger employment, the salaries grew, and there is the key. Of course, such changes and potential damage cannot be compensated by the Ministry of Tourism through this, through these laws, but I suggest that... in the case of further tendencies and greetings to continue to reduce membership fees, that those activities that are not closely related to tourism should be reduced to giving, to certainly consider in the future with the Ministry of Finance a balancing fund as we had with the tax reform. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because we have some revenue 800 million kuna from membership fee. From it we extract the part for undeveloped areas of about 30 million kuna. And of course, when any of this touches particularly continental areas where tourism is less developed, and we all feel that we need to be solid and invest. They are, of course, concerned, and it is not easy to communicate with all these discharges that are happening. But you also removed the parafiscal load for the woods, and they had very valuable purposes and resources. And we very much have to follow the principles when we bring some regulations, when we want to raise some money, and when we need to have some social benefits, and when we have some social and useful goals, we should certainly look out for it. As for the Law on Tourist Communities of Article 73, I must welcome that amendment from my area in this second reading. Especially in our area is the tourist community... Although they are tourist communities, they are located in areas where tourism is very intense. [[You don't understand.]] In all these municipalities, overnight stays of over a million and a half, over a million and a half nights. While we have cities like Split and Zagreb that have 2 and a half million nights. And when we compare them to these small places, we can see that they keep our tourism on their feet. As for colleagues from the SDP who spoke in front of the club about hotels that we only had 20%, they themselves were contradictory in their discussion because they mentioned that hotel accommodation is only 20%, that it brings the best guests if we can categorize whether the guests are the best or not. But there's also the lowest wage. We already have a labour problem. We have a problem that has happened in the past with hotelers, with caterers who have not appreciated enough workers who also bear their responsibility for why a part of the workers are now and our citizens are not in Croatia and they definitely have to take that responsibility. But the development of hotel accommodation should certainly be supported, but not forced. Also the cooperation of farmers and hotelers, to support the caterers. But the restaurant owners also have to pay the farmer, of course, but that farmer can't come to the caterer with his products until no one will. So if co-operation is agreed, if supply is agreed, if sales are agreed, it must be continued and the rules must be respected. We have a situation that we now have over 12 billion euros in tourism revenues. That's a billion euros more. I am even a little bit more restrictive going on these membership fees, i.e. to reduce as much as possible the membership fees we ask of the economy, and to make up for it partly from these increased revenues because it seems that we could and should not be afraid of these cuts, but certainly that promise made in both tax reform and which was maintained really brought back faith to the units of local self-government that when the economy is working wisely and disbursed to return it. But of course, the government must also be prepared to make up for those who cannot cope in the short term. I would also ask to consider whether there is a possibility of reducing this number of overnight stays in Article 32(2) below 2 million. When we know that the City of Zagreb has 2 and a half million nights, I believe that even since a quarter of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives in the City of Zagreb. When he has only 2 and a half million nights, while from tourism almost a quarter of the budget is charged to definitely think about it. But I really commend all these positive changes that were made until the second reading. Certainly talk to these areas that are underdeveloped. Of course, we must also commend the drop of undeveloped funds to the level of the county tourist communities. The activation of inactive state property will also help make these figures better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137740	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today it is in the second reading of the tourism tax bill, so allow a few remarks or suggestions if you will. According to this interpretation, in the light of this law, fees and membership fees were charged in 2017, 678 million kuna. Of these, 68% are tax revenues, and about 30% of revenues from parafiscal charges. And since I would like to talk about this article 13 “Owners of houses and apartments or apartments and all persons who spend their nights in that house, apartment or apartment pay tourist tax per night.” The revenues on this basis are somewhere around 2% of the total income or about 3% of the revenue on the fee. It should be said immediately that here it is proposed to reduce that owners of houses, apartments etc. pay only 3 months for this in the tourist season and can be paid casually and reduced by 70% from the prescribed tourist tax. In principle, I would like to say that here when I say this against this amendment because I think it should be redefined or deleted, I speak in principle and not because of the height of it, these amounts that are proposed. First, we should say that we have to admit that, basically on the continent, this fee is incomprehensible in practice. Why, because from Slavonia to Zagorje people often have cottages in the same place or in the same municipality, they stay there half a day or one day, rarely even at night according to this question at all how you will regulate and charge for it. On the other hand, those who have these cottages, apartments or apartments in, at sea already have it paying for everything as well as the domicile population, of all communals, means from electricity, water, transportation of garbage to maintenance, maintenance of the cemetery plus paying taxes on the facility. Therefore, I see no reason why we should still pay this tourist tax. Objections which are a principled one point of view that this fee that we have seen is small, somewhere around 2% would like to know by the way how much that 12 to 15 million is expected to be charged on this basis, how much money is spent on records and billing costs, so that in reality they are even less than they are in absolute terms, is coming. What they object to is that this cannot be excluded from the charge of these, these fees, I'm talking about objects that are non-commercial for tourists, is that without that record would strengthen the grey economy. If this is to be an objection then this objection can be neutralized in such a way that people have to report that they are there and how many there are, but that they do not have to pay the fee, but it is done for the record and because of what it is, what it allows itself on the one hand, and on the other hand it is possible to control whether what has been reported corresponds to the real state. The second is that, in that case, in order to have people who are not Croatian citizens who are de facto using it as a holiday house and not pay a tourist tax. And now, you should, there's a feeling that this objection can also be removed in a way that we consistently stick to that these provisions are related to facilities that serve for rest. In other words, one who has a residence in Croatia can but does not necessarily have to use the house for rest. We have to be aware that today on the one hand we have an ever older population, when people retire then live in two places parallel and delete the difference between what the name of the primary residence and the other is secondary to them. On the other hand, given all this greater interest in, with these new technologies today, commitment to the workplace or the domicile job is no longer so mandatory, therefore what was once a cottage or holiday home by definition is no longer so. In other words, there is a strong basis for eradicating this difference or not going to charge a tourist tax or tourist tax in this case, which determines Article 13. Unlike those foreign nationals whose destination is the only destination, which is used not for, not as a residence but as a vacation facility, this difference could, in that case, be consistently executed and charged a tourist tax. So I would ask that the Proposer reconsider these provisions to introduce differences, because in the total amount of income, I said it between 2 and 3% depending on how we calculate, and real income from it is not 2 or 3% because if we calculated the price of the billing, etc., it would be much less, and it would be much more logical and much more reasonable and much more reasonable if the laws were to follow logic, logic and needs on one side of the changes that occur both in demographics and in changing the logic of jobs, and not just these material truths, material interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137742	Thank you, we have one replica of the respected representative Vranesh.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137743	I thank you, dear Professor Tudjman, it is very important when we are in a situation of financial stabilisation and now we are not just talking about the rules of the Domain and Resor of the Ministry of Tourism to think about all these side effects that happen because of a large number of regulations and to think about the principles of both fiscal and parafiscal obligations and to try to simplify in the future all of these regulations which the economy, but also the natural persons and our citizens must daily, let us express ourselves, swim in the sea of these regulations, means, and the obligation of over 3000 of them we have faced, which we have collected. It is very important to resolve them gradually, of course, as possible, but to think deeply about the very principles of certain regulations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137744	The answer of the esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137745	Thank you, colleague Vranesh. I think it's usually the tendency that we're going to have to reduce these parafiscal burdens by the logic of the economic, legal heritage of the economic union, and that shouldn't be a problem. In my opinion, it would be a far more intelligent solution that this 30% parafiscal burdens are compensated in some way from, say, the concession for natural goods, which is exploited is done somewhere along the current around 214 million, if I have well remembered the figure, which would in some way enable them to retain these membership fees for tourist communities because especially those tourist communities in undeveloped areas where we want to bring tourism, they would have to live, so one way simpler, and more efficient, should be accepted and brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137746	Thank you. The next debate will be the respected representative of Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137747	Thank you very much President, distinguished secretary of state with associates, so here's something I want to say about this package of tourist laws, 3 Laws on tourist communities and promoting Croatian tourism, about memberships in tourist communities and about tourist tax because the fact is that today we have had the opportunity to hear all sorts of things here, here, under the notion of tourism, we have heard all about environmental protection, about agriculture, industry, Uljanika, shipbuilding and everything else and the fact is that something that brings or tries to introduce more order simply to the opposition is not acceptable, not only through these laws, but also through all of the so far, so we have nothing to be surprised about, but the fact is that the Law on Tourist Communities has caused public attention for the reasons that this system has been set long ago, and that has had the opportunity for 20 years, almost 30 years to clearly agree to benefit each destination and to contribute first of all those who are such and use it. This law clearly encourages the association of tourist communities, as well as the establishment of new ones, encourages, means that more tourist communities are oriented towards destination management even though I might like to define what this destination management is, who it belongs to, whether it is all stakeholders, if they are all, that we know who it is and that through that management we know who it is and who it is. Because these forms that we have so far have shown that tourist communities work, especially from Istria down to Dubrovnik, means, coast, islands, coasts, while the continent, except for the City of Zagreb, simply has problems because they do not have enough income that they can get from, basically, what they could finance, which is mainly a tourist tax and some co-financing of local self-government. In order to establish a system of tourist communities, we have, through the laws, defining the tasks and defining the objectives of tourist communities, limiting the share of costs. It's a good thing we split up what's always been the employee and what's the one who's employed in the season and that we know why we're 40 percent or not. When we talk about the tourist community or about the director of the tourist community, I will say on my example, I am the president of a tourist community in a small municipality of 1,000 people, who make 760,000 nights and see what happens to me, so by applying this new law. As such or as president, I will be able to give someone else such authority to be president, I think that it should have been a little clearer to define who and what way we can, so that everyone can be president and know exactly who in that system and what it's for. Secondly, we have a problem, a little bit of illogicality in the part that speaks of conflict of interest because in one part we are asking the director to pass a professional exam from his work, and on the other part we have the fact that we are defending him from even having a catering activity. I don't think the directors are going to take it very well because the fact is that they are very much engaged in all the more or less catering activities and have come from these positions and have come to such places, while they have been educated and satisfied and those basic other conditions that they have to have a certain level of expertise and everything else that goes with it. I think the Law of Conflict of Interest might have been, I don't know what the commission said on this article, if it said it was supposed to be, I accept it, but I think there was a little different to explain that there would be no misunderstanding on the ground. When we talk about tourist tax, everyone here in some way, as I understand it, argues that it is as small as possible even though it is paid by some stranger who comes here, who wants to be in this space, is that it is a huge or some insurmountable burden of price that Croatian tourism has and we have heard that we are the worst, most expensive, etc. etc. Although all statistics suggest that we in the Mediterranean and the environment with countries that are also fighting on the tourist market, we are not the most expensive, but almost the cheapest and can be checked in official statistics, except that someone can conclude that on a case-by-case basis something is more expensive than anywhere else from case to case. Overall, we had attempts from 2011 to 20015 to modernise Croatian tourism, then we brought a strategy and I think it was more or less achieved in most of the goals and much earlier than those given time in 2021, 2025, but a story about VAT appeared. And today we're listening to the HDZ pick up some kind of VAT or drop or do something wrong. The fact is, what counterpart Schuker said was that in 2006, the clearly differentiated rate of organized accommodation with food was 10% and went in terms of the institutional part of Croatian tourism. So she didn't look at this part that we often observe, which is private renters who did their own business with tourism and thus provided themselves with income or made it possible for themselves to develop, build and survive or live. So in 2011, we got the story that VAT would immediately be raised from 23 to 25, and then there after a year she took off from 25 to 13 for all the catering services, but it was forgotten to say that then the catering was i.e. organized accommodation increased from 10% to 13%, and when we look at the structure of this catering accommodation in total incomes or amounts, it is about 80 to 20%. So now we ask who, then, did they benefit and who did the damage? So that story can't be bent on the back of this government, it's done the maximum possible for the system to be sustainable public finances, it's also received confirmation from those who see it as good, and that in the future and how it's going to have to think about what with the part that's most interesting tourism, and that organised accommodation means hotels, camps and so forth. Whoever is at the head of the tourist community could notice that already the provisions and regulations have happened that during this year more or less everyone is recording the surplus of this or more income and that tourism is growing up to the most in terms of having the most nights ever and it has been the best tourist season ever. So these stories about how much someone or something like a tourist tax simply don't stand and in this part we can continue to say next to everything else. As for the membership fees in the tourist communities, surely this should be welcomed, although I say again that the City of Zagreb will take most of all of its membership fees and simply everyone else will not be able to use those revenues, I don't know how to deal with the issue with the banks, because they all have their own business, but it will still seem to be as it is, if I understand correctly, that means that this membership fee will be paid at the headquarters. The membership fee amounts to about 10% of the local incomes of this tourist community and is not inescapable of this income, but I say the residence fee which should bear the absolute functioning of the entire system that it has shown over the past 30 years that it can contribute to local levels that the leaders of these local tourist communities and how they can strengthen or improve the tourist attitude towards these local self-governments, the visibility of these local self-governments and that Croatia certainly needs this system of tourist communities. Well, whoever wants to, if they want to team up with each other, I wouldn't be looking at it all the way local as they say it, so if I don't know a limit of 700 so let's make it 700 or a million, so be it a million. I think that all the days is some possibility of who wants and who is to be advertised in the way that they think it is best for them and it is clear that all this transparency that is trying to achieve has already done its job, I think that really the tourist communities have already been a little bit in order and that these three laws of them and that, in fact, they bring even more order and that this one should definitely support them and look for the reasons for any more income I say exclusively through, through the residence tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137748	Thank you very much. We have more replicas. He's the first respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137749	Thank you very much, Mr. Boric, you come from a touristic area and it would be correct to advocate for these people, for the hosts who have been dramatically damaged in this situation since HDZ came into position. When VAT on tourist services was raised by 12%, plastically to say someone who worked 200, 300,000 kuna as some caterer during the season was damaged by 12% means 36,000 kunas you took from people's pockets, if they had 2 employees, each of these employees you took 2,000 kuna per salary. So that's what needs to be said here and what needs to be returned immediately. Returning people to hospitality especially in tourism VAT which was what it was and allowing them to work simpler. And on that side, the first ones to come from that neighborhood should stand up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137750	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137751	Thank you very much, colleague Maras, I don't know you have the right to speak you have received two warnings with the right not to speak, I don't know. And that's just for the last point. Okay, no, no, [[Intruder: It's for the last point.]] Look, I don't know if you were here when I was talking about what the SDP did, so you're for organized accommodation and nutrition, so also for hotels or those restaurants that had been raised in 2012 or '13. the years from those famous 10 definanced rates to 13 SDP, and you have reduced the hosts only to those, under the story that they will decrease the price of coffee, drinks or juices, etc., and that this will be a contribution to Croatian tourism. [[Let's not.]] I said it's a 80 ratio for those who are organized towards 20 everyone else. And that's where you were looking for some kind of audience of yours and you did it. I think the story is that Croatian tourism is going well and that nothing in that price section has happened, it hasn't happened, it simply refutes all these stories about the importance of VAT in the total price, for me. That... who wants to work well, with one or the other VAT, he earns what he needs to get in that year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137752	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Tudjman, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137753	Thank you, fellow Boric, for pointing out the fact that tourism is going, that it is developing, that it has never been a better indicator, as in recent years, but then you said that it is not right to question the residence tax. If that's what I said, I didn't question the residence tax at all, except in that segment, when it comes to house owners, apartments and vacation apartments. It's precisely because I believe that the owners of these objects that are not used for commercial purposes pay for everything as well as the domicile population, therefore, participate in the development of that end, on the one hand. And on the other hand, because these facilities become residential facilities, where they are increasingly living as they are in their primary, as well as in their residence.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137754	The answer of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137755	My colleague Tudjman, so I was talking about residence tax, as the basis of the general system means local regional and state tourist communities, without a tourist tax, this system simply would not be sustainable, it would not exist, because there would be no way, except for the co-financing of local self-government, that it survives and offers what needs to be offered, and that is the promotion of destinations, programs that should attract guests, tourists in each end of our beautiful. So this segment that you're talking about, about those who mean they have facilities at sea or somewhere in Croatia and they have to pay a residence tax and they don't have to deal with tourism, is something to think about, whether or not it's it, but when I'm talking about income tax and pausal taxes, then we came into one story, means that it's okay again, that we have people who have objects that mean, I don't know, live in Zagreb and they have objects that rent in a coastal or island place and taxes on that accommodation or a residential unit pay the City of Zagreb, and down there is all the infrastructure and everyone's looking for their own. So there are moments to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137756	Thank you for the next replica of the esteemed representative of the Daus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137757	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, you will not believe it, but I agree with you in some things, and you have well recognised the problem of tourist membership, that the payment of the same goes to the company headquarters and not where traffic is created. Most companies have headquarters in Zagreb and that is a fact. And that's why we expect from the Resoring Ministry a little understanding to find a model, to keep some of that money in the middle of where the money was created, then Mr. Secretary of State would be decentralisation. Not what we talked about before. Whether it's a model, I don't know, a total number of overnight stays, whether by the company's income or the business center where it's located in the city or in the municipality, but to find a model. I think that would be much fairer and much more, then they would even support such laws, if that hearing and understanding existed, and not only to be recognized in the benches of MPs, and even most, which I welcome at this point, but also from the legislator himself. I also agree that it is a good thing to unite tourist communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137758	Thank you for the response of the respected representative, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137759	Thank you very much, colleague Daus, I did say that, but I said the other part, means that the membership fee, at least because I have experience, is in all local tourist communities, which are not the City of Zagreb, about 10% of the income. It means that they are not the most important moment of operation of this local, tourist community and that these revenues in hundreds, thousands of kunas, may be significant, but not most important for the tourist community to function. Maybe to find models that would be applicable to banks that are being introduced, I would understand, but I don't think a model like that is the easiest thing to find, if I don't know, an oil distributor, an INA or any other, who just has a business or... In some, every corner of the Republic of Croatia and every single one of them find a moment as much as its part is, simply, I don't think it's easy to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although it might look or seem fair. Once again, I say, everything, all activities on local self-government, when we talk about tourism is a tourist tax and this ministry is headed in a good direction and it should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137760	Thank you. The next replica, the esteemed representative of Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137761	Thank you very much. A fellow fighter, this membership fee may be the most controversial thing when you talk in general to the owners of the Republic of Croatia, because very often those with the agricultural sector and metal sector etc. He says, "What do we have to do to pay for it?" However, frankly speaking this change in the second, in relation to the second reading, as far as the banking sector and the telecommunications services are concerned, it is not clear to me. Because if it benefits from a strong and good tourist season, it has bankers and telecommunications services. Let's not forget, the bankers aren't just cash and this, all the cards the foreigners pay more or less with are... banking houses. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if you can't share yourself with local self-government units, it can be income at the state level and then it can be like some kind of fund from which projects at local level will be financed, practically, these funds will be available to everyone, because although frankly not all the banks in Zagreb, you have headquarters in Split, Zadar, Rijeka and Pula, Zagreb have only 2 largest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137762	Dear Representative Boric, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137763	Thank you very much, Comrade Shuker, it is clear that this legislator is trying to do maximum good. Here's a decrease in activity means for 21 activities a reduction in rates from 28 to 5 is certainly something that's much better than what we've had so far. And now just guess everyone to pay exactly what he delivered, I don't know oil on the island of Rab or in Zagreb or delivered money at his office is not easy and it can be done as it was done. I think that this, I say, is the most important part of the tourist communities, so that this is probably considered in a different way. But the residence tax shows who can either survive on the system or can build it up or upgrade it. Whoever has the problem, who has the problem, is offered the meaning of association, the state's aid is offered, the beginning, especially the continental part.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137764	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Mark Velligay.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137765	I thank Vice-President HS, state secretaries with associates, colleagues and fellow representatives, so here, I have come to this debate to give perhaps a slightly different view because I have a feeling that somehow all of these laws relating to tourism are always focused solely on sea tourism, which, on the one hand, may not be strange because, we must admit, however, it is always the first one of the synonyms of the Republic out there, abroad, is the sea. However, I believe that it should be a role precisely because of the tourism ministry that gives one greater attention to continental tourism and the potentials that this continental tourism has and that actually this one already now, I will say, asphyxiation that exists on the seashore, to reroute some of these tourists to the continent. In this package of laws, I've said it before in one of the replicas, I didn't like the very beginning of how we started law-making, which is that we had a public consultation for this package of laws at nine months. I know it suits workers who, in fact, are workers who are of course in the marine part of the Republic of Croatia, but in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, say in the Krapina-Zagorje County, you have a peak of the season, you have a week of culture, entertainment and sports in St. The Cross of Začretje, and you have a week of caucasian singers in Krapina, and you have a harvest of grapes in the Pregrada, and you have a week of cacaaque words and a Zlatar, and you have thanks in the autumn of Klanjc. So, numerous events from which this one continental tourism actually arose, and I will say that it is a county that is champion because it has been declared days of tourism, the champion of continental tourism in the Republic of Croatia. So, and they had no opportunity for our tourist workers to fully engage in this e-consumption and give one of their full contributions and perhaps, given that we are in continental tourism, the best in the Republic of Croatia, yet to create a law that will focus more on continental tourism. But I will say that there are, of course, positive things in this set of laws and that it represents one step, not too big in advance, but they represent, as some other laws have represented, because it is still a system that develops with age and regardless of the government, although we hear from the opposition that nothing was before, it has also taken some positive steps, but okay. Here I will say that of course we were satisfied that from the aspect of tourist communities, I was also the mayor of the tourist community, now we created one area, so, the tourist communities, we were among the first in the Republic of Croatia and pioneers, and then we were often correspondence with the Ministry of Tourism, it was about the Tourist Board of the Heart of Zagorje because we ourselves concluded that we can't function as an independent tourist community, and this is good what is in the bill that this president of the tourist community doesn't have to be the mayor anymore, and it comes down to a more formal function. What is the problem also, of course, is that it is good to access tourist communities from the aspect of this destination management. However, it is very difficult with regard to personnel, given the revenues of the tourist communities on the continent, they will be very difficult to develop some common, actually develop projects, raise that competitiveness, primarily when I speak about projects. Unfortunately, these capacities still do not have and are not strong enough. So when we talk about the marine Republic then we have a whole other story, then we actually have the same one through this law and it's well allowed some smaller tourist communities to survive. Art. The 10th law is also not clear enough, it is not clearly defined, often another additional opinion should be asked of both HTZ and the Ministry of Tourism for certain events and what is laughing and not laughing. The abolition of the Board of Supervisors in the tourist communities itself, my experience suggests that he played a very useful role since he was often in it and the representative of the county, now it is no longer, we have only a congregation, often the problems and general ones, is often a problem and collect the quorum since all members of the assembly are unfortunately not aware enough, but probably do not have the right interest to participate in the work of these congregations. This is about the Law on the Tourist Communities themselves. As far as the Tourist Tax Act is concerned, I don't have any excessive objections here. But what shows as one problem is this use of the e-visitor system. It's very hard actually to get these homeowners, it's very hard to get the owners of the apartments or weekends to pay that fee. One of the proposals was that, with the annual tax on houses and apartments on vacation through the tax administration, the charge was paid to the householders, of course, who were not the tenants, it was actually accepted in the e-consumption only on the note. And it would still be clear about the law on tourist membership itself, I believe that this system in which renters are calculated will only be fair by the number of beds. We welcomed here in the first reading the collection of membership fees for the banking system, for telecoms and me, as well as many colleagues who mentioned it in their discussions, it was very surprising now that this proposal in the second reading really does not have banks and banking sectors at all, we all know how much traffic they actually grow in the tourist season, and that there are certain doubts that there have been some lobbying on their part and I find it absolutely unacceptable because given the profits they make, I will tell you that Croatian Telecom, for example, had a profit growth, net gain of 23% compared to 2017. And now they've exceeded a billion kunas of their profits and they're not obliged to pay here. About the banking sector, we all know what profits they make. What I have little remarks about myself, is not part of these legal packages, but often the competition that you as the Ministry of Tourism call is not strictly said, but it is always kind of convenient for the larger ones, it is very difficult for us who have fewer tourist communities with fewer incomes, with fewer visitors, realising some projects through the Ministry of Tourism, the sector still remains high, highly politicised, not good what I said, it was actually through the whole debate that we were saying everything in the same basket through these legal proposals, I believe that through the regulations, however, some things can be better laid down because here we have big, small, we have the coastal Croatia we have Continental Croatia and so the tourist sector is too complex to simplify it. One small step definitely ahead we could and we still needed more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137766	Thank you, and for your exposure, we have a replica of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137767	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, but what you said to your colleague Welligaj is clear as day. So in a set of laws, you can identify who goes to the hand and who doesn't go to the hand. So you yourself said that certain industries have been kicked out of the law and their obligation, and it is precisely them that have a very great benefit from tourism and payment and exchanges and ATMs, very big profits come when tourists come and when certain payment and money change takes place. The question why the government went there to benefit those who are the most powerful and wealthy in Croatia, and on the other hand those small tenants, people who are very hard to earn their bread every day did not go to help. And that's the real question of these laws and that's what they'd like to hear. here from the promoter. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137768	The answer of the esteemed Velligai representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137769	Thank you, so here I expect actually a response here from the Ministry's authorities more than we've heard today what you said from the ruling benches, they've also mentioned that one problem. I welcome that some of the activities have been removed because, of course, you should always relieve the economy, but this definitely stings in your eyes because when you look at it, I remember in the first reading there were headlines like that in the paper when they come out for those laws, and here and the banks will also have to pay for something and the telecoms will have to pay and then once it evaporates something by which this law in the first reading media recognition, and now it's gone inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137770	The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I welcome the representatives of the ministry, here we have heard about these three draft laws mostly more or less similar debates, The Change Party of Croatia has a different view of the development of tourism, the economy, the role and place of tourist communities and the way of financing, so I will try to elaborate it over these few minutes. You see, Croatia is Europe's most dependent country in terms of tourism when we talk about the economy, if we know that the share, the contribution of tourism to gross domestic product is around 19.20%, then we see what time it is. The next nearest country with the highest share of tourism in GDP, be careful it has 5% contribution to GDP, and we have 20%. It is simply unsustainable or extremely risky and all those who advocate further development of tourism, investment they are in fact pushing for a longer term for a poorer Croatia, poorer. This seems paradoxical what I am saying, but the quality of countries less developed is precisely that their share of tourism in GDP is very high. So this is a strategic definition of macroeconomic and I as an economist and in this case as a politician in front of the Party Let's change Croatia where we have a strong Committee on Economy and Tourism experts this is our basic thought and message. So we reduce the share of tourism, and focus more on you in the Government developing industry, or re-industriousisation of Croatia, the development of new technologies, investments in new startups, etc. Now, if Croatia has a strategy in tourism, but it has no strategy at all, our tourism is developing in the quiet of these 3.4 years, thank God that this is the case, the volume of tourism traffic has grown strongly, why, due to the conflict of wars in North Africa, the Middle East, because of the destabilised situation in Turkey, so these tourists suddenly began to come to Croatia from Western Europe. There's no strategy here. We from the Party Change Croatia believe that the following should be done in concept. The tourism ministry should shut down or integrate it into the Ministry of Economy, that is the only point. Be careful what the Ministry of Tourism will do to us without strategy and simply function as we operate. So, we will integrate when we get into this situation after the next elections of the Ministry of Tourism at the Ministry of Economy and what further should be done. Look, 314 tourist communities have in Croatia, so please, I remember when I was a lot of younger tourist communities were important, you come to a smaller place on the Adriatic and you need to find accommodation, ask some questions, there were no these tiles, so there were no Internet, we had to do it conveniently, go there asking, they solve you send you. Now, now nobody needs to worry about it, if you need anything, it's all here. Therefore, our view is that tourist communities should function voluntarily, if something needs to be done at the county level and at the state level, and this other volunteer work by people in small places, enough that one man administers from his apartment such an offer in that place, to answer certain questions and that is, he could have some benefit from it. But what turned into this system of tourist communities, it turned into an excellent clienteleist system where accommodation similar staff, members of individual parties and one and HDZ, SDP because you see, and both of you agree excellently, only about some decimals and expressions, you mostly have the exact same attitudes because you were in favor of this system. How much is this system you see, I have studied the bill well, and I know quite well the subject, the total income of the tourist community at the country level is about a billion 50, billion 100 million kuna, of which the membership fee is about 350 million kuna, and of the fees about 700, 750 million kuna. Now you see, what are our entrepreneurs doing, business people? Well, of course, if they were crazy more than that, than parafiscal charges, why would they have to pay some membership fee for some tourist communities there, be careful, so it's totally pointless. Tourist communities, if someone wants to start and function, should be established, but they must function from their own work and from their profits on the market if they are of quality, if they provide quality information, if they intervene in something, then they will be paid by customers. What do membership fees mean? Memberships are a completely non-market instrument that we need to get rid of as soon as possible and the Party changes Croatia fully supports entrepreneurs, business people who object to this and want this shut down, we fully support them in this. It is a simple feeding chain of clientelistics where similar political people are mostly located at local, county and state level. That's what needs special emphasis here. On the other hand, what else do I want to say about it? So, parafiscal accusations, this is important, 350 million kunas we would save, reduce the separation of entrepreneurs, increase their competitiveness, and that is concrete, we are talking in Foreigners change Croatia, we are saying concrete things to my people. Now you see this, and even if you're saying that you're going to change the structure of funding, let's say in art. 5th and Art. 6th Bill on Memberships in Tourist Communities, what have you done? In September of last year, Minister Cappelli went out to the press and said we were removing membership fees for about 20,000, 27 000 legal persons in the Republic of Croatia, and people started clapping and I would clap. However, the bill came, they remain there, but what did he say in September then? He said, "Now these membership fees will be paid by the banks and he'll be left in an article." Six, he said and the banks would pay, but you know what group he put them in? He put them, you see, in a group, third group at the height of the separation rate, and you know how much that third group pays? The first group pays 0.16%, and that pays a lot, but be careful who pays, exchange rate, lease companies, securities trading companies, insurance, so all financial institutions, so where the bank that benefits the most, it had to be at the beginning of this group, the first group. And on behalf of the Party we change Croatia two hours ago I submitted an amendment where I ask that banks be placed in the first group, in the first place, and not in the third group. Have Minister Cappelly answer who put pressure on the banks to put in the third group that pays 0.09, watch out, and here they pay 0.16, so double the amount of money they should pay. So don't you see wherever we open, because we're a party that, we don't have a problem with HDZ, SDP, but we have a problem with financial oligarchy, financial capital, large capital, it's our biggest challenge, and the biggest problem of the Republic, wherever you start to see that they're being harassed, and everyone else is paying for them, and so I support entrepreneurs, let them rebel, we're going here, I'm going to ask for the suspension of membership fees, get rid of the company, let them pay banks, financial institutions and teleppers, and the production and all the other companies, so they need to end it. Now, let's finally sum up what the Party proposes to change Croatia, so we're not a party that speaks to the rotten grandmother lan, so here's what it means, to abolish the membership of entrepreneurs, to leave it to financial institutions, teleoperates, on the other hand to integrate, so the Ministry of Tourism in the Ministry of Economy, to establish only one who will be able to finance them on the market and on the other hand what is particularly important, our tourism endangers other countries. Lira devalued Turkish last year by almost 35%, and other countries are threatening us dangerously. I'm telling citizens individually, don't invest in private facilities anymore because you're going to get hurt. Take care of it, especially [[Intruder: Thank you]] with the currency clause. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137772	We've got a few replicas. He's the first respected representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Lovrinović, you have very precisely scanned the tourism community's revenues and basically how much money it is. So, a billion kunas and now you've gone to the individual from what it comes from, I'm interested in your opinion as a very experienced economist, former Dean of the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, whether it's justifiably spent money or whether it might be more done with these billions of kunas, given that the Republic of Croatia needs to invest naturally in promoting our destination in a tourist service and what we offer to tourists, but I kind of feel like we're not using it to the extent that we can. So a lot more could be made with that money and probably now, especially in these times of crisis when Turkey is struggling with prices, dropping prices might be more likely to happen. Do it in that commercial. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137774	The answer of the respected representative Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137775	Thank you for asking my colleague, Maras. Surely that money, especially 350 million kuna membership fees, could be used better. So imagine, please, tourism has developed to the extent that it accounts for 20% of the Republic of Croatia's GDP. So if there are already some membership fees and some state aid, so let's focus on the OPGs that produce healthy food, you understand, according to the production of renewable energy sources, and not on feeding the clienteleist system of political parties, the party in the Republic, which, in this way, is how their loyal supporters or local powers entangle and who simply work for them, especially during the election, are their contact points important, so in this sense, let's stop fooling the public, let's stop taking entrepreneurs, businesses, and whoever thinks to have tourist communities, let them start alone and let them earn on the market, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137776	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137777	Dear Representative Lovrinović, I fully support your efforts to ensure that banks bear more evenly the burden of this tourist fee and you have suggested that from the third category go to the first, and here I have made some compromise and with the help of fellow MPs handed over the amendment to be in the second group, so we will see if the legislator will allow any of this. The fact is that it always suits those at the top of the pyramid of power that they are the first to be taken, when given to them, and when to be given, when to take from someone, then they are the last to give, so a very hypocritical system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137778	Reply by Honored Representative Lovrinović
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137779	Comrade Pernar, I'm staying with this one, so you're unusually kind to me today to the banks. Listen, not in the second, but in the super-first group, such institutions must be placed, as teleopers, financial institutions, especially banks. Here, the law explains why in the third group, it says because of fees and fees, whatever is most important for banks, so these are in the business below in the tourist neighborhoods of secondary earnings, earning money on ATMs, earning traffic, all of them depositing money that collects, citizens and businesses, which increases their sources of funds, on this basis they can approve more loans, earn on interest, so most of them profit from this. So the Party change Croatia is our main motto that we need to reduce the strength and influence of financial institutions, especially banks and therefore, I ask you, because you have a voting machine Introduce, place the banks where they belong, in the first group [[Intruder: Thank you]] Let them pay as well as others. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137780	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137781	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I fully agree with you, the banks, therefore, the amount of money they extract extra during the tourist season is enormous. So, each bank has its own ATM in all possible places in the Republic of Croatia, as well as in Croatia, in the hotspots of the tourist season and now imagine how much they traffic per day at only one ATM in Split or in Novalja, especially when we know that more tourists do not travel with packages of foreign banknotes that then change in exchanges, but rather raise on these ATMs, each of these transactions directly benefit from. I agree with you that banks should not be placed in third category, they should be placed in a higher category. to pay more. And let's also think about how much extra profits the telecoms make during the tourist season at the expense of the roming i.e. all those foreigners who come to the Republic of Croatia and be tourists here and who talk over their networks. So I think both have to be in the higher category.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137782	Thank you, the answer of the esteemed representative Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137783	Comrade Sauch, I am pleased to hear this, but you will have the opportunity to vote on this amendment to support it and bring down this majority that you have otherwise created, it is an opportunity for you to do well. So, here's what I'll be happy about if you support that proposal. Look out, a billion kunas revolve in the tourist community, Split will be the first to choke in the waste of tourism. We are a country of mass tourism, and of this money, instead of investing in non-productive tourist communities, to invest in environmental protection because 3-4 times more trucks over the summer need to be transported from Split, Rijeka, Pula, etc. It's just regular months. So, and another message, the more traffic increases in tourism, the deficit in the balance sheet of payments the Republic of Croatia is increasing, we are increasingly importing, this is one rotten concept and stop lying to the people and offer them bright stories. That's why they need new people. and we will change the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137784	The next individual debate will be the respected representative of Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137785	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice-President HS, I am actually pleased that, throughout this time together with the working group, through e-consultation, through our first reading, suggestions, suggestions and respect for the views of individual representatives, we have come to this final proposal of the law which, if some of the things that have taken place today in today's debate, will be through, the amendments that have actually been submitted will be corrected. Thus, the Law on Tourist Communities itself financially encourages the mutual association of these local and regional tourist communities, and in order to develop a tourist product together and promote the destination as a whole, and this should certainly be welcomed. This Law on membership fees, which have been spoken of today and which are here at the end and Professor. Lovrinović spoke, in fact, why and why, as a certain parafiscal imposition, but it should be said that this is extremely, extremely important for the market and that, in fact, through these memberships, those tourist communities are strengthened first in the continental part of the Republic of Croatia, which is their main income or can be said one of the highest incomes. Through the Tourist Tax Act that hasn't changed in years, actually income was falling, and the residence tax remained the same. Here it is a little bit pointed out today, this application related to the e-visitor as if it had fallen from the sky, and in fact very much allows a series of bodies of state authorities, from the Ministry of Finance, County, the State Office for Statistics, better control of the log-in, and in fact as such it has proved extremely, extremely effective. As far as tourist tax itself is concerned, it is the secretary of state in its introduction even during the morning that the tourist tax is a tool of local policy and I would actually agree with it and it is a tool of local policy and they can actually say in which way tourism will develop in its area, and in fact the respected principle of subsidiarity in which city and municipal councils are given the possibility of actually adopting a residence tax in their area. I also know through debates often and here through debates in HS we would always like something to happen at the state level and that it is the state that should prescribe actually a residence tax. But here the ministry has done me very correctly, it has put it down to units of local regional and regional self-government, and I think it is those who can and should actually determine this residence tax. So, what I want to say is that some people haven't talked about it yet, but here's an example from practice. So, in the areas that are related to the islands, the Dalmatian Zagora, and even this part of Karlovac and Banovina is a large number of people who have moved out in the 1970s, and they today have a large number of friends and acquaintances who come and fly to them and are longer than 72 hours in those places, and they don't actually pay a tourist tax. What would be impossible for SR Germany, therefore, after 72 hours when you apply there, you are required to pay a residence tax. True, today's fellow Sacha is also in the first reading, and in this second reading he was actually talking about people who are in our closest kinship, or their marriage partners, that this should not happen, I agree with that, but there are a number of those who come to visit us as friends and acquaintances who stay for more than 3 days in our places, but no one is charging them any residence tax. What is related to the Law on Tourist Communities, which I must say here, is that before the law was passed, in one area 9 units of local self-government, so Imotski and the town of Imotski themselves received the first tourist community of the area, Imota Tourist Board and actually perform together on the market, and I think it's a good example of practice in branding tourist products in the area and of 310 tourist communities, I think there are examples like this somewhere 8 or 9. Why is that good? 2006 The property landscape had about 2,000 overnight stays and about 150 beds. At that time, there was a sort of straw and a shy talk about the development of tourism in the area. However, by building the tunnel of St. To this day, the Imot region is about 74,000 overnight stays in the area. So, not only by building a tunnel, I think that the population of the area has actually felt this tourist potential, they have been organised, they have been helped by units of local self-government that have best formed a tourist community in the Imot area. Just a year later, they actually brought a strategy for the development of tourism in Imotska krajina by 2025. and through the action plan, they have taken 30 measures in fact to avoid making mistakes, or to avoid improvising them in the area. In fact, what the secretary of state was saying about local leaders' skills will, in fact, be clear through these measures covered by the action plan as much as and how certain local leaders see the development of tourism in the area. I'm sure it'll work. Here I commend the Ministry of Tourism and HTZ, as well as the TZ areas of Imot who have actually invested their resources in the creation of this strategy which has significantly, significantly contributed to the Imot region and we believe that this year these 74,000 nights will grow to 100,000 nights. The residents not only provided certain accommodation facilities, but also offered this strategy a strong investment in capacity building, which is important as an added value to the tourist service by building a pool, wine taster, gastro-promotional things, the excursion tourism they are dealing with, and in fact it will all improve that in this year, I hope, Imotska krajina has 100,000 nights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137786	Thank you very much. And the last individual debate of the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137787	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, we're talking about a whole series of important laws here. What's the big deal? Because in the Republic of Croatia tourism is one of our most important industrial branches. Sometimes it may have too much influence on the Croatian economy because these oscillations can have a significant impact on GDP, can affect how the Croatian economy will grow or not grow or grow more slowly. And I think we're coming into some trouble this year because we see that some of our more competitive ones, especially in that I think of Greece and Turkey, are going to a rather fierce war with prices that I don't know if we're going to be able to follow. So, after years of huge growth in tourism revenues, this year I feel it will be good if we repeat the results last year and if we succeed in defending ourselves from that competition that has entered, I say, quite strongly with a certain reduction in prices. People tell me that the defacto is now much cheaper to go to Turkey than to our destination by plane, etc., so that there should consider how to take further steps to make and facilitate our tourism workers and reduce certain pressures of a state that does not do so but rather creates no precondition for tax discharge to occur within a reasonable period. When we add to this how difficult it is to find quality employees for the season, how many people prefer to go to some of us close countries as regards the EU itself, but as for mileage, see just how many people go to Austria to work in tourism, how much they go to Germany to work in tourism, how much they go to Italy to work in tourism, and even in Slovenia. So we have a lot of problems to solve. It's not just enough to have a beautiful destination and culture and tradition and as far as eating or offering catering, wine, all of which we have, but if there's no one to work, if the prices are too high, people will eventually choose locations where simply the Republic of Croatia won't be able to compete in this way. And then the question arises why the government doesn't react to what we've been warning from the beginning, this tax press that immediately manifested itself through an increase in VAT in tourism from 13% to 25% and overnight the burden of our caterers who simply didn't have any extra income, it wasn't so easy and convenient to make money quickly, but simply with a better offer or better prices could possibly compete on the market and that 12% is a lot. Here I just did this ad hoc calculation of some small barrister who works only for the season from the fifth to the tenth month and let's make $300,000.00, maybe it's not even in the VAT system because it's possible not to be, if we're him, he won't have this 12% load, but let's say he goes over 300,000,00 kn, so he automatically enters the VAT system and can be loaded by 12%. When you take over 300,000 kn, 12%, it's 36.000,00 kn extra cost that person didn't have until yesterday. 36.000,00 kn, so that's a huge amount of money for someone who works at that level, which is the biggest, basically the biggest cost is work. So he doesn't have a lot of investment and investment, but he's working most, and then it's very hard and pay wages and hire people and everything that goes along with it. And therefore, I appeal, here again to the government, I know that Prime Minister Plenkovic announced that the Minister of Tourism will discuss it. However, I don't know why we always have to wait for the last election year, probably 2020. before the summer of arrival or the law to be applied from 1.1.2021. amendments to the VAT Act or perhaps at the end of this year for the following year. Why do we always have to wait for election years to make life easier for someone, and in order to possibly raise a voice, two more? Guests who have hundreds or thousands of small ones, those who are simply struggling to earn their wages every day, should be helped immediately. So, don't wait and don't make it impossible for them to work and be competitive. On the other hand, from the very beginning, we say that, after all, it was a measure that we introduced, something that Boric spoke about that we had raised, so we brought something down, when looking at the universal rate of 13%, believe me, not everyone in tourism, was not acceptable, but everyone was using it and accepting it, the entire boom investment in tourism was launched, and we became a competitive destination. On this basis, on the basis of investments, the activation of assets, based on the good work of the HBOR that followed these investments, we have also come to new hotels, new rooms, the activation of assets and all of these incomes that are today and if we want to continue this trend further or to keep those revenues, we must go into disbursement. So we need to reduce VAT in tourism as soon as possible, in catering, we need to further enable people to employ them cheaper. So, now people are choosing in tourism whether to work with us as cooks at sea for 2-3 months for I don't know EUR 1.500,00 or go to Austria, Italy or Germany for three times the salary. If we do not allow these extra-quality jobs, or jobs that can get higher wages, not to be stimulated, not to reduce contributions and taxes on such salaries, people will go away. Not to mention that it is incredibly difficult to find a waiter in Zagreb where tourism is practically all year long in action or in Dalmatia in the season, the waiter is hard to find. So, we have a problem that we don't follow people's needs in tourism, people now manage in every possible way, but on a quality basis, it won't last much longer. I call here the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course, today something has been said about the tourist communities, about the tourist community, about the burdens, this is really illogical that the entire financial industry has gotten away from that which has great benefits from tourism. So if we have €11.12 billion, so that money goes through someone, there are some percentages, some profits, not people in the pocket of €2-3.000,00 on the sea from Austria or Germany, but they use our ATMs, use our banks, use everything they offer, and it's normal that they also have to participate in that whole story. What I have is the feeling that our tourist community could use the resources it has much more effectively. What I have a feeling is that, for example, the tourist community when it opens up a branch in Shanghai, so in China, it has to be followed by diplomatic activities, so we should do that to people from China if they come, here today is the Chinese prime minister visiting these days, that these visas are being issued faster, that we have a direct line, so it has to follow each other. We can't have representation there, but we don't have a direct line and we don't have the possibility that in one, two days people get visas. Then who are we working for? Are we working for 2-3 Shanghai employees, so who's going to do the job and promote the Republic, and eventually people won't be able to make it? So we have a big market, we have people who would come out of season because they travel all year round, so there's no seasonality, they're not interested in warm weather, because they're very rarely going to rest on the coast and in such resorts, they're interested in visiting the Republic, seeing the Republic, seeing where Marko Polo came from, and on that side I welcome that the activities there are strengthened, opening up and representation, but unless there's no diplomatic activities and sports there's no use. So, let's think about how we're going to connect with each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137788	Thank you. And on your show, there are more replicas, the first respected representative of Sauche.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137789	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Maras, I fully agree with you that banks must be more participated in view of the benefits they are benefiting from. Here, I have launched one activity, one amendment to move banks from third category to second category, I invite you to engage, that you too submit such an amendment and that you do not reject it just because it comes from me. I think it's one thing that should be above the political divisions because I think absolutely everyone here agrees that banks and telecom operators can't and should not be in such a low category given the amount of money they make, for the sole reason, because it's working during the tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137790	Dear Representative Maras. Nothing. Next Replicated MP
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137791	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Maras, my replica goes the same way in this direction, so I certainly support what you've said with the fact that I've also wanted to stress that it's really weird that in this second reading comes up with solutions like this, and after, as it says, consulting with and with activities, employers and with the activities of electronic communications and activities of the banks, it means, more so, so one proposal that's not in the first reading here, couldn't even be included in the general public, the question is, I'm interested and later I'm going to ask that question to the secretary of state, will they listen to us who are proposing these amendments simply for the reason that this amount of money won't be spent, so in this fund still for undeveloped parts of the Republic of Croatia [[Intruder: Thank you]] It won't be spent that way. [[Intruder: Thank you, answer...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137792	...the esteemed representative of Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137793	Thank you very much, ma'am. Alfirev, you have warned of one, I would say, a trend in the Republic of Croatia where they are developing unevenly and investing in tourist destinations. So, in the Republic of Croatia there are a whole series of potential locations that are not developing, we talk mostly about the interior and Slavonia, except for projects that are conveniently promoted in campaigns by colleagues from HDZ on Slavonia's development, where we see nothing. So, there are a few destinations that are something on their own, self-initiatively, but everything else doesn't follow what it should. Look at only Vukovar, look at its significance, look at what it could all be, how many people would come there, but there's no basic infrastructure, there's one hotel, there's one institution that takes kids to the Hostel, and that's that. So when we put everything in one piece, I'd say in one direction then get rh [[Intruder: Thank you]] Can't develop evenly [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much. [[Intruder: Thank you, next replica...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137794	...respecting counsel Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137795	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maras, I volunteered for the replica because I assume you've lost it. So you were talking about gross catering traffic, VAT on gross is 20, not 25%, at least you should know, then it's not 12 anymore, it's 10%, so just one technical correction if we already like to throw things away, that we're going with exact indicators. The second thing, 80% of tourism traffic is the transport of accommodation and organised accommodation, therefore, diet, the differentiated VAT rate was introduced in 2005 and since 2006. You know very well why 2012 This differentiated rate rose to 10% to cover those 6 months of decline in the health contribution. The second thing you forget is that in 2013, the zeroth rate on bread and milk and some other food products has been abolished. So when it all comes together Calculating then the story seems a little different. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137796	The answer of the esteemed representative Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137797	Comrade Shuker, it may seem to you, but it doesn't seem to be working. So I'm not saying this from my perspective, I'm saying this from the perspective of those who are employed in catering. What you said, as far as income goes, it may be true, but as far as employees are concerned, the ratio is completely different. So, because most people are employed in this catering area, yes, yes, it's Mr. Shucker, so that makes sense. If costs, if investments are in accommodation etc. The way they are, then it's logical that here where the most cost of work is, that I have a lot more employees. So that ratio may not be 80%, but over 50% of the people who work in the catering section. Look at the little data, it'll all be clear to you, so you don't need to look at everything from the position of property, you need to look at the position where people earn their pay. And that's why I'm telling you this, which is why it's imperative that we reduce VAT in catering as soon as possible, everyone says that. Here you go. Take a walk. by city and ask the hosts who in [[Intruder: Thank you]] Zagreb has many. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137798	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the Honorable Secretary of State Tonchi Glava will speak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137799	I thank the esteemed Vice President HS, the honourable parliamentary representatives, and I thank everyone for a very constructive debate and for their findings. But here I have to take advantage of the opportunity to correct some incorrect statements and to give you a little further impression of the great importance of these changes and of the real reform of the system that we are implementing because it will certainly have an impact on the future of Croatian tourism and on what is most important, the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. First of all, let me reflect on a few of the findings mentioned today. So, the tourism minister, Mr. Gary Cappelli, who runs this ministry and who runs this reform ahead of us today, is not in HS today because in a delegation with the prime minister, he is hosting, as you know, a delegation from the NR China and also today sign a very important agreement with a fellow Minister of Culture and Tourism of China who has great importance in the development of tourism of special interest and special tourism products, so I think you absolutely understand why he couldn't be here with us today. As for the Equality Fund or our approach to the development of continental Croatia and continental tourism, I think we're up to it. sent a significant message to everyone in the Republic of Croatia as we see and how we expect the development of continental tourism and how ready we are to encourage it in this way. So, this so-called. The Equivalence Fund means that all the county tourist communities that make revenues, the original incomes are less than € 500,000.00 each year with co-financing of up to € 500,000.00. So when you look at, say, four Slavonian counties. The Ship-Posavia County of Income has about 200,000,00 kn, so, when this law comes into force, it starts a year with 500,000,00 kn. Požeško-Slavonska County with original incomes 110.000,00 kn, 2020. It starts at £500,000.00. Virovitica-Podravska County with original incomes of approximately 155.00 kn, 2020. It starts at £500,000.00. Vukovar-Srijem County, which has its original incomes around 230.000,00 kn, at 1.1.2020. It starts at £500,000.00. I think that's enough to say how much we've been thinking, how much we've been taking care of the continent and how much we've been taking care of the continental county tourist communities that in the new reconstruction and with new commitments and tasks have great importance in the region. The next point to which I have to reflect, something very much mentioned and discussed today, which is, therefore, about banks and telecommunications. Therefore, it is very important to stress and to be very well aware that this ministry is first and this government is the first to enter banks as taxpayers of paying a tourist membership fee. This is something that has never existed in the Republic of Croatia, with its view that banks should be involved and should bear part of the cake, conditionally said, so co-financing of tourist communities systems through the Institute of Tourist Memberships because they have very clear benefits and benefits from tourism. And this ministry had first had the courage and this government had the first courage to introduce it, so nobody has done it so far, so I ask you to respect that and respect the fact that we have sent a very clear message about it, which and how we see and want to develop. We put them in these categories that we put them in because, first because we have, as you are already told, so the government action plan that we have to worry about is that we are not burdening the economy further, but also if we look at them as a whole, we had to put them in accordance with some of the analyses that were made. Whether they could have been in a higher group, it is a subject for definitely considering, but in any case the proposal went towards their involvement and their submission of part of the burden conditionally stated by the tourist membership fee. But, please, let's be absolutely perfectly honest and correct to say that this is something that was first introduced in these laws and this change that we're making. Furthermore, here is also mentioned today about many things that are not necessarily related to these laws and to these measures, but one incorrect finding is also said, which is that, for example, exchange offices and exchange offices are not covered, therefore, the activities of exchanges are not covered by the draft of these laws, they are clearly covered and they are an integral part of this law, not only of the new bill, but they were included in the previous bill. There has also been a lot of debate on tax policy and on VAT, so I will repeat once again that this government in the 3rd round of tax reform has reduced the burden on the economy by more than 6.3 billion kuna, that also in the second round of tax reform, this government has made one discharge of 300 million kuna precisely for the tourism sector, and for those employers who bear the cost of accommodation and food of their own employees, and this reduction from these 300 million kunas, employers in tourism have taken advantage of the maximum, and that amount, respectively, has been reduced to the salaries of their employees. So, I would like to point out that the programme of this ministry, that the programme of this government, the tourism policies, is very clear, that it is also relying on that triangle that we often talk about in the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is, therefore, financial stabilisation, structural reform and investment and that tourism is also following this way of working and all that we have done so far in these measures, and what is evidence that we are doing well and that we are going in the right direction is the fact that we are not only having extraordinary indicators of the growth of the 3rd years, but we also have very clear indicators of the growth of income, and that is something that we want to measure the success of Croatian tourism. Here, recent financial results have been published which we know well. So we are going in the right direction, but these changes that we propose to these laws are very important to us so that in the future Croatian tourism does not remain competitive, but is even better, even more competitive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137800	Thank you. They do, there are two replicas to your exposure. He's the first respected representative of Mira Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137801	Thank you very much. Dear secretary, you boast about the measures that the government implements and mentions 300 million kunas for this in tourism, for the development of tourism, and you yourself say that GDP, we all know that about 18% of GDP is from tourism. Which means it's not coming back to tourism enough. And you're talking about the measures that you're making, how you're full of the tourism budget and what's true, but the other thing is true, and that's the problem that we're importing food products never more than 3 billion euros, and while our imports are growing, exports are falling. What does that mean? That basically we have the full capacity of our resources, mostly agricultural, did nothing to develop agriculture and sell domestic, healthy, organic products, but vice versa, as tourism grows, imports grow. Which is not good, agriculture and tourism must connect, without each other cannot be long-term.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137802	Thank you. The next line is, do you want to answer? The answer of the esteemed secretary of state, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137803	Dear Representative, very much of the programmes and measures of the Ministry of Tourism and the Croatian Tourist Board are aimed precisely at encouraging agriculture, through the development of indigenous and outstanding top Croatian gastronomy. You've just had examples in the last 2 years more than ever, large hotel houses and large hotel chains in Croatia, also one whole series of providers, catering services in some way, I speak... to say that, which significantly buy Croatian intentions, Croatian products, work with Croatian OPGs, when you look at several strong hotel houses, which not only take from the territory of Dalmatia, OPG products but from Slavonia, that is something of course, which we agree with you that it is not enough, but we do very much, we invest financially, that there is more and more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137804	The next replica is the respected representative of Juričev Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137805	Thank you very much. Well, dear Secretary of State, praises are a number of measures that you take with these 3 laws, and here, if there is another suggestion, a proposal, namely, tourist communities that have over 2 million overnight stays, they will be able to do their own operating marketing, because there are those who have over 80% non-commercial nights, a proposal and an amendment that goes by the HDZ Club, so we will ask you to consider that this applies to all those who have over a million kunas of commercial nights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137806	The answer of a respected secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137807	Dear MPs, thank you for this comment, we will take your proposal seriously for consideration.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137808	So we're going to conclude the debate on this point, on the points, and we're going to vote on them when we get the conditions. Now, let's make a deal for tomorrow, so we don't know. We will continue to work at 9.30 and the first point will be the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Rights of Officials, first reading, P.Z. No. 618 Tomorrow, at 3:00, we'll start a statement on the amendments, and at 6:30, we'll vote on the points discussed, so we know the schedule for tomorrow. Here, have a good afternoon. Session adjourned at 1626 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137809	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Moving to agenda point: - Amendment report. On the final proposal of the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism, second reading, P.Z. No. 462. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate has been concluded, and the amendment has been submitted by the HDZ Representatives Club, please the proposing representative, Mr Tonchi Glavin, State Secretary to be seen, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137810	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137811	Thank you, it becomes an integral part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-10-0.u137812	We're going to vote now. First is the Final Proposal for a Law on Tourist Communities and the Promotion of Croatian Tourism, second reading, P.Z. Number 462 Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. The amendment was submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. During the pleas we had conducted earlier in the session, the government accepted the amendment and it became an integral part of the law. I am therefore voting on the final proposal for a law on tourism communities and promoting Croatian tourism. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 81 for, 22 abstentions and 8 votes against the Law on Tourist Communities and the promotion of Croatian tourism have been passed. Good morning, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Before we start on the agenda, just a few information. So first, we'll be working until 3:00, then we'll discuss the amendments that are proposed to the law, there are 57. The vote is at 6:30. The second thing is, I sent a letter to the DIP yesterday asking whether the Assembly could highlight written or printed promotional materials or messages and slogans during the session of HS, of course related to the EU elections, since there are several colleagues and colleagues who are candidates. We passed the answer to you today during the morning. It makes it clear that materials cannot be used in the assembly, so neither printed nor written. The explanation you got, I'll just highlight two things. Thank you, fellow Matic. So rule no. 3. It is said that it is prescribed that state officials who are participating in the elections should not have a privileged position towards other participants in the elections and their regular activities should not be used for the purpose of electoral promotion. As participation in HS meetings is a regular duty of the parliamentary representative, the emphasis of promotional messages and slogans during the HS session by a parliamentary representative who is also a candidate in the elections, whether it is a candidate proposed by a political party or a candidate for a candidate of a group of voters, would put her in an unfavourable position for candidates who are not also parliamentary representatives, resulting in a breach of that rule. The DIP is also of the opinion that the emphasis on promotional messages and slogans in the assembly during the election promotion is contrary to the provisions of the Finance Act, for which administrative sanctions are prescribed for the total loss of election promotion costs and on which DIP will be taken into account in the implementation of the monitoring of election promotion. So it is clear that such things cannot be done, so I invite everyone who participates in the elections to stick to it. Before we go to work, on behalf of all of you I would like to welcome the students and students of the Elektrotechnical School of Varazdin who are with us at the gallery, welcome. ... So now we're going to the first point. [[Applause.]] This is: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Obligations and Rights of Officials, First Reading, P.Z. No. 618; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I would now like to ask the representative of the proposing state secretary at the Ministry of Administration, the respected Dark Nekic, to give an additional explanation of the bill. Here you go.
