ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136905	We are now going to propose amendments and additions to the Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The applicant shall be the Administrative Board of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency pursuant to Article 7. Law on energy regulation. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. The government delivered an opinion. Does the proposing representative, with us, Mr Tomislav Jurekovic, President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, want to give an additional explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136906	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am pleased to welcome you on behalf of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency for a short time second time. This time the topic is relatively short and technical, namely the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency submitted a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for the approval of the amendment and addition of the Statute of HERE. The reasons for this technical point stem from the amendments to the Energy Regulation Act, namely the fundamental law which regulates other matters and business agencies, which was implemented last year, the Croatian Parliament adopted it in 7 months last year and the amendments to the law came into force in August 2018. On this basis, within 6 months it was necessary to implement the relevant amendments in the Statute, the amendments were proposed at the session of the HERE Governing Council in January of this year and forwarded to the Croatian Assembly for approval. So everything that happened in the Statute stems from the changes that occurred in the Law on Regulation a while ago, I will only recapitulate a few of the most basic. Therefore, the ZORED or the Energy Regulatory Act has redefine the position of HERE in relation to its budget. It has become no longer a legal person acting according to the rules as it has already become part of the budget, in other words the provision that the agency is a non-profit legal person, and financial and accounting leads in accordance with the rules of budgetary users. That was one major change. Likewise, the Statute as a basic general act of the Agency and now within the authority of the approval of the Croatian Parliament, not more in approval or with the prior consent of the Government. Certain corrections have also been introduced in accordance with the Law on Regulation at the position of supervision or control, where the Ministry of Administration is now responsible for overseeing the application of the Law on Administrative Procedure in HERI as a fundamental law which we use while the financial component is solved by the combination of State Audit and the Ministry of Finance. The adjustment and the manner and percentages and the system of approval of possible alienation or loading of real estate and one essential provision has been introduced internal audit. Therefore, the ministry's decision was also prescribed to confirm that HERA as an independent body should and may have its own internal audit, so such an adequate unit within HERE was formed and the provisions concerning it entered into the Statute itself. The amendments end with certain corrections at the position of guaranteeing from the conflict of interest system, thereby further expanding the number of HERA staff concerned by certain rules of the game. So here, I repeat, this is a technical point, about compliance with the already passed Energy Regulation Act, and I hope this House will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136907	Thank you very much. Three replicas. The first line is looking for Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136908	Thank you very much. Dear representative of HERA. The technical changes you offer us within the Hera Statute are not significant for our citizens. For our citizens, more important is what you get out of their pockets with your decisions, which is mainly about renewable energy sources. Once again, I ask you, why didn't HERA encourage what she needed, and we have examples of people who built solar panels, micro solar panels? I have in Sinj a man who was 30 kW in 2013 and who had all the permits and HEP and everything, you were giving renewables licences to wind power plants, where they draw us a billion and a half kuna a year, to us who pay, and a billion kuna to suppliers. What did you do that for? Why didn't you encourage micro sunflowers? An Independent Family Reduced Poverty [[Intruder: Thank you.]] to the foreign investors who only milk money from citizens' pockets. [[Thank you, Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136909	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136910	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, I would like you to explain why you were about a month ago as HERA, as an independent agency for the regulation of the electricity market, why you agreed to reduce the price of the HEP network, while HEP loses about 300 million kuna annually. The explanation for this was that citizens and businesses would be cut by electricity prices. Well, you see, it hasn't been a month, the electricity price has increased. So, all along with the ministry, you tricked our citizens and the other thing, why did you succumb to the pressure of the Ministry of Energy and the protection of the environment to agree to this reduction of the HEP network? Next year, HEP will have 300 million less income, its credit rating will be reduced and HEP will be pushed towards a weak and possible privatisation, and many are waiting for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136911	Thank you very much. Mr. Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136912	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Mr. Jurekovic, HERA certainly plays a specific role in Croatian society, the state. So, on the one hand, it regulates the very actors in production, electricity and gas markets, and on the other hand, it stands in some way as a barrier of the market for these services to citizens and entrepreneurs, if I understand that well. My question now is a question that sets the waist. Are our citizens poor, and our entrepreneurship inactive because we have a regulated electricity market and a gas market, or do we have a regulated gas market because we are poor? In other words, how much does this affect the development of the economy? Otherwise, if there were no regulation, as it did with oil derivatives, would it be a different picture, an economic picture in the Republic of Croatia? If I'm not clear enough, I'll repeat that question in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136913	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, but please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136914	Mr. Vice President, we MPs are here looking for answers. All right, all the articles have been broken, we're MPs here asking questions, not a monologue here, we're looking for dialogue. [[No, no. You have to. You know the drill.]] These are important questions, please, sir, to answer our questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136915	Mr. Lovrinović, you know, I'm not gonna give you a warning, and I should. I will not give you a warning because you did not actually refer to the article of the Rules of Procedure that regulates it. You know very well that the Proposer may answer or not, and the criticism of whether or not he responded is in the debate, and not in the injury of the Rules of Procedure, you know it better than I do. But let's move on. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. Mr. Miro Totgergeli in front of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136916	Thank you, Vice President HS. So, before us is the proposal to amend and supplement the Hera Statute. This proposal came here to the Parliament to give consent to it, and all amendments and additions to this Statute are related in fact to the law that we amended last year, the Energy Regulation Act. During the debate on the law itself, we could hear on the one hand that individual MPs are afraid that the HERA will no longer have the authority of the Government but through this legal solution is actually giving one additional independence and independence to HERA to make decisions on its own, and this has just been done because of the EU's demand. And on the other hand, because over the past 20 years, we've been building a regulatory agency to build it to be independent in the decision-making work that's in her jurisdiction. Also, many MPs when discussing HERA, then actually ask HERA to be the regulator of everything HEP does. HERA, as a body, is not in charge of overseeing the complete operation of HEP, but rather, HERA is in charge of taking care of only those activities that are regulated and as we have legally settled, HOPS is responsible for the transmission system operator and HEP ODS to be the distribution system regulator. So it's actually two of the only companies that are now, HOP even separate from HEP's management, only owned by HEP, and HEP ODS is still not completely separated but is also on that path and HERA only needs to take care of these two HEP companies. Therefore, HEP’s business decisions related to the construction of new production facilities or to the part related to HEP supply cannot be affected by HERA’s ability to influence business decisions relating to the construction of new production facilities or to the part related to HEP supply, so where the price is formed according to the economy and household contracted service with HEP supply because the price is formed on the market. What HERA can influence is the networks belonging to the CAPS and HEP ODS. So by adopting this statute, we are actually completing a process where after the adoption of the statutes, after the law we have passed, we are building HERA as an even more independent and independent body that participates in the overall processes and whoever needs to and must oversee the work of HERA is a legislative body, i.e. This Croatian Parliament. And on the other hand, of course HERA is subject to courts. So we can question HERA's decisions through the judiciary. The adoption of a decision establishing internal audit units in the Agency adopted by the Minister of Environment and Energy, with the prior consent of the Ministry of Finance and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector, so this Statute, including the establishment and internal audit unit of the Agency, should be complemented by the statutes of the Agency, add a new organisational unit and define the tasks carried out by the internal audit and the organisation and the part-time work, the systematization of jobs and the description of jobs shall be governed by the Regulation on the organisation and systematization of jobs. Provisions shall be added that the President of the Governing Council shall also carry out the tasks set out in specific regulations such as: The law on the internal control system in the public sector, the Law on fiscal responsibility, etc. Adding provisions relating to conflict of interest in such a way as to add workers to the Office of the President of the Governing Council and workers of the Department of Internal Audit to the list of workers to whom the conflict of interest provision applies, not as so far as only professional staff have been covered. These are further details that are being changed in this Statute and the HDZ Club will support the adoption of consent to this Statute, which HERA sent to the Croatian Parliament, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136917	Let's move on with the clubs. In front of the SDP Representatives' Club, Mr. Damir Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136918	... The agencies will indeed focus only on these amendments and amendments to the statutes which my predecessors have said harmonize with the Law on Energy Regulatory Activities and the Law on the Internal Control System in the Public Sector. [[Specially enabled.]] The Statute implements a decision to set up an internal audit unit, namely the environment minister, with the previous consent of the finance minister, to decide on the establishment of such a unit. Furthermore, the tasks of the Governing Council, for example, of the Energy Regulatory Act, are complemented by the provision of the Hera Statute to the administrative council, with the previous consent of the Assembly. Further conditions shall be laid down which professional managers of the Agency as well as their rights, responsibilities and responsibilities are required to regulate the supervision of the financial operations of the Agency by special regulations and shall set a time limit for the harmonisation of the Agency's acts with amendments and amendments to the Statutes. But I'm going to point out more changes that I don't like. In particular, Article 5 of the amending and supplementing the statutes in the business of the President of the Governing Council, it is added that the President of the Governing Council shall make a decision on the acquisition, loading or alienation of property and other assets or on the conclusion of a legal transaction whose value does not exceed 1/5 of the Agency's budget. I'm going to stay here on the fact that the agency's budget is about 30 million kuna, so 1/5 is about 6 million kuna. At the same time, the adoption of general acts by the Agency shall be exempted from the work of the Governing Council and shall be brought by the Head of the Authority. So is the internal internal internal audit rule. Look at that discrepancy and too much of it pulls on intransparency. 1/5 of the budget in the hands of one man is by me too. Five decisions and a budget goes into the wind. But to avoid confusion, it's all in line with this government's policy, so it doesn't surprise us and the SDP can't support this policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136919	Thank you, Mr. Tomic. And now Mr. Tomislav Sagar is in front of the Independent Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136920	Thank you, Vice President HS. Mr. Jurekovic, distinguished representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, will now begin the debate differently than I planned. In fact, from Mr. Tomic's debate, and I'm asking you to explain it to me now, a little bit, I admit that I'm confused because what my colleague Tomic said, I didn't read it that way, would you explain it to me, is there any provision so far that the president of the administration has up to a fifth of the funds or is that really newly introduced? I've even gotten the impression that this has been up to one-fifth, and that later if you can explain whether this is a very important thing and which really requires whether these amendments of the Statute should be supported or not. Other important remarks about the amendments to the Statute itself are indeed in line with the law adopted in this HS and there is no, it is good that supervision is strengthened, internal audit is good things that will improve work. But let me expand this debate a little bit and say something that is important, which may also be of interest to Croatian citizens, and it is about the work of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency itself because, as we see in media reports, what confuses the public is an increase in prices and gas and electricity. But to get a full picture, I'm going to repeat again the question I asked, maybe I'm not clear enough, but the question logically, logically, is very important, and the profession is, so I'm here even from some magazines that deal with these issues found it in more places. Do we have regulated prices because we are poor or are we just poor because we have regulated prices? It is a key issue which, of course, will not answer HERA, but about HERA, which is called the regulatory agency, I would call it a corrective agency before because indeed all those who claim to be the best regulation is only the market. Everything we intervene in the market, prices, it's no longer regulation, it's a simple correction, we correct prices. At this point we see that HEP must be the only supplier on the wholesale market, he was appointed there by Hrote, the state has set it up, he has to buy gas and sell it at a lower price, have losses because no one, of course, is crazy that commercially engages in such ventures. But what is the important position of HERA and when we talk about the Statute that defines it now? HERA, on the one hand, prescribes rules, controls the rules that players have on the market, so all entrepreneurs dealing with production, any production, transfer or transport of energy, and on the other hand it protects myself, so to speak, protects citizens and entrepreneurs from, let's say, the most banal, from too much price, therefore, protects, and especially those citizens who are today the poorest in the Republic of Croatia. But if you were to say something picturesquely, imagine a athlete in a lower-ranking club who would be told by board members, listen, we don't have much money to pay you what you're worth, but here we'll buy food for you, so we'll sell cheaper, you eat a little less, so it'll be all right. Will that athlete ever play in the first league? To return to the question of the Croatian economy, are the regulated prices in the service of the development of the Croatian economy or are they holding it back? Once again, I'm going to pull the parallel with the moment when the oil derivative market stopped being regulated, in fact, the fuel price market, and then at that point, what happened? It didn't really happen, and we can't take it back... Except for some modernisation of gas stations, which INA did, we don't see that shift, closed the refinery in Sisak. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, what would happen is, in fact, with all that market if it were Mrs. Dalic stayed in the government, if Agrokor hadn't happened, if HEP had been privatized, what would have actually happened? Would something have happened? These are the things you have to answer, the question because, representative HERA, Mr. Jurekovic, you are a professional, you run one very important agency, you cannot avoid political issues and you cannot stay away from politics I know that although we are trying to be HERA independent body, you cannot do this because you do not have enough, no, it is not your fault, you do not have enough, to say the powers they give you and this Statute, and finally and by law. But here's to the end of the story, that this isn't just an empty story, look, FINA published the data, it's available to everyone, the number of entrepreneurs in the production, transmission and distribution of electricity, in 2008 we have 89, 2017. 690, watch out, out of these 690, 456 no employees, 159 has 1 or 2 employees, watch this data, remember them well, the number of employees in these companies in 2008 we had 13 465, 2017. 11.669, of course only in HEP, ODS is the biggest loss of jobs from 9271 to 7370, but then we get the key data. Income 2008 21.1 billion, and 2017. 27.5 billion, out of which 2014 was the maximum income of 28.8 billion and then gains 2008. 215.5 million and 2017. 2.1 billion kunas, you can't express a percentage like that, I'll use what's been imported, 880.7%, but not all of them, as they say in the commercials, were maximum in 2015. 3 billion kuna, look out, we're talking about profit in this activity. The average net salary was... 386 employees in the sector and 2017 7.801.00 has grown 22.2%, does not monitor this increase in profits of 880.7%, of course there are reasons, there are always reasons why HEP today is the only one on gas wholesale. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for entrepreneurs, the average salary of 4.534.00 has increased to €5.372.00, so 18.2% less than in this sector and of course the trading balance this whole time, which is understandable again because which, where did the INA make a new drill, for example, does it have new wells? There's a research field in my county, there's a location, waiting, I don't know why it's waiting, it's been waiting for years, ten years, to get permission, to find, as they say, all the necessary papers, so, the negative balance is, it's not good. What I want to conclude with this debate, our energy market, cannot be called to the end of the market, because there are these limiting factors, which are, of course, always speaking in the barrier, protecting our consumers, our citizens, our entrepreneurs, however, how much is really their service and how much is the bear service. Yesterday we had a debate here, 12 hours on the work of this government, reforms, and this, this, this point today, shows where the Republic of Croatia is. Because without available energy, without energy, which will stimulate the economy and ultimately, which will then be a closed circle, which is the meaning of regulation, when you have feedback, we will achieve results. It is not the responsibility of Hera, of course, and as far as these constitutional changes are concerned, with the remarks of counterpart Tomic, please explain, there is no reason not to support yourself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136921	Thank you, too. We move to individual debates, Mr Ivan Lovrinović has a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136922	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. HERA, Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, is an extremely important institution in the Republic of Croatia, responsible for all important tasks, concessions, various approvals, energy prices etc. etc. Therefore, it must be fully independent of the policy and of the existing government. I guess for that reason, it's been imagined that the term of office of the President of the Governing Council lasts an odd number of years. It's according to the current statute of seven years. You know, this long term, when someone asks, it always causes concern and a sign of question, because this term, since 7 years of age, only judges of the Supreme Court in the United States. And you know who extended the term from 5 to 7 years? The SDP government, you know. Therefore, 5 years is an odd number and I agree that it should be 5 years, but it must not coincide with the mandate of a political party in power, but why 7 years? Why seven years? So you're still entitled to another term, so twice. For 14 years, you see, when you have such decisions in the statute, then it doesn't sound good and that's the basis for possible clientelism and a variety of other things and problems. Therefore, I propose and demand that we change Croatia on behalf of the party, in the Statute of HERA, the mandate of the President of the Governing Council is reduced to 5 years, from 7 to 5 years. This is an example in all EU countries between 4 and 6 years, as a rule of 5, but 7 has no one. Why let someone from the SDP explain who made this decision. Dear colleagues and colleagues, and especially respected citizens, who follow us, if you watch us, the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is obviously not independent. I've already told you, so a strong argument can't last a term, it doesn't take seven years, five years, so if someone's good, okay, then give him a second term, another five years, but 7 plus 7 e, that's too much. Why isn't HERA independent and it has to be? Because she's allowed to propose to the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection, to be networked, and what does the network mean? This is a charge to HEP that gives way to its power lines, means its electricity transmission network to consumers to reduce the compensation of all users to HEP for the network. That sounds great, and the explanation was why? So electricity users can cut electricity prices. But it hasn't been a month, we see electricity prices rising. And as things stand, it will grow again soon. And what are we reading here? If HERA wasn't independent someone from the ministry called and said, listen, write it off and don't complicate it. In addition, HERA, if we go back a little bit, it has given all its consent, to build renewable energy sources, and especially the famous winds of power plants, whose megawatt today produces us and over the past years, cost almost three times more expensive than the megawatt produced by HEP. However, if HEP had built at least half three wind power plants, it wouldn't have been strange to me, some competition, but HEP, respected citizens, did not build any wind power plants. And who did? They're all strangers. There are domestics, and they're good, obviously they had good information and good connections, and all this together, in billions above what we need, we're paying taxpayers. Here you see the energy policy of Croatia and that we are completely threatened, we are completely threatened, here are the Spanish, Austrians, and I don't know who. All right, let's go, but if HEP doesn't have any wind power plants, that's amazing. Well, there's not a single solarian, so it's amazing that HEP hasn't built any hydropower plants since Croatia's independence, so that's amazing. Let's move on, you see, the statute requires that an internal audit be introduced, so what's the internal audit, in a company that has, which is small and has 30 million incomes, so that's just fiction, to put new arrests there. From the look of the HERA's structure, the Governing Council has five members, I said term, seven years old, but please write there, watch out, the statute says that every member of the board must have an official car, so please, where did you see it. Well, there's enough to be one for the other four, not all four, cell phones, watch out if they're buying books, magazines refunding them to HERA, etc., etc. So, HERA like this is really herava, distorted, like this HERU we have to reposition and we will definitely do it because Croatia is an energy-hazarded country we are the largest importer of electricity in the EU, so we are threatened accordingly. You see when I said that HERA approved under the pressure of the Ministry of Energy to cut the network by doing what it did, it did damage HEP because HEP on average annually on the basis of the network costs about 300 million kuna. It's one stable income and what's going on now, you see that means that this year 2019. HEP ends up with a lower profit, a lower income, a lower profit, and what will happen will drop his credit rating. And according to my information, the financial indicators of HEP for 2018 have deteriorated, they're not very good. HEP lost another item of huge money, which is in the sphere of finance, a financial loss of about 700 million kuna, but when that issue comes in line here in the assembly we'll discuss it. Furthermore, what I would like to say is that there have been around EUR 20 million in damages, losses caused by the lack of labour, but there are still no reports of the causes of the tragedy and when they will be put into operation, now the Serbs and BiH will protest because they are also getting energy, running water, etc., etc. And to conclude, respected colleagues and colleagues, respected citizens, wherever you touch in Croatia, we have big problems. It's political clientelism, irresponsibility, and we have to deal with it, so I urge you to go to elections to finally get rid of these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136923	Thank you very much, before I give my word to the repatriators, I am pleased to welcome the students and students of the University of Rijeka who are with us today and thank you for coming to visit us. And now two replicas, Tomislav Zhagar, Mr Tomislav Zhagar. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136924	Dear fellow Lovrinovic is not true that HEP 28 years does nothing, he regularly fills the budget, he is the state's ATM, he is filling the budget in such a way as to take it from the citizens, then returns it back to the budget, and then through the price of gas again, he is the only supplier on the wholesale market that returns it to the citizens. Because you remember the separation of the famous add-on to the gas business deal because no one was going to take over such a gas business and of course what would happen if HEP were privatized, you think that he would be a supplier on the wholesale market, would be sharp. In this problem HERE, it is the problem of Croatia, we do not have the energy market, we just want this way to have a virtual energy market in which we correct this way prices. Of course, far from every country having to regulate the energy market, but when it comes to prices then and the business of HEP and then these are the things that are important for the development of the entire economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136925	Here's the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136926	Dear colleague Zhagar, thank you for this matter and, in fact, contributes to the debate, so look clearly that what no one wants to deal with is HEP, that he must compensate for the losses. Well, here you have heard, and we all know that HEP has to invest in LNG now, so it's known in advance that we're going to lose there, but HEP has to invest there. So he takes this one from HEP, takes the one from HEP, so he can't function under that kind of pressure, under so much interest, he's become a pig bank, so he's seen how much he's spending in HEP for promotion, the media, the PR, so it's like it's a private company, and it's like a market for something where competition is big, not one form of monopoly. There are sources of clientelism, the financing of certain political parties, and I have to, we need to clear up, I hope we agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136927	Mr. Miro Totgergeli, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136928	Thank you, Vice President, my colleague Lovrinovic, I don't think you've really understood enough what the nets are for because when you talk about cutting the network in HEP, hep's profits are reduced. The network only serves for the transmission system operator and distribution system operator and network operators that are collected is used exclusively for the functioning of those two, and the two companies that are the system operator, so they take care of the network, the trafostations, one of those that are from 110 kW to more, and the other from 110 to low voltage and everything that is obtained through the network must also be invested in that network. So HEP can't use the net profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136929	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136930	Dear colleague Totgergeli, you're actually saying it's not a neck, it's a neck. So if there's no greater income to get what you say won't be possible, they must mean those who deal in that chain of HEP reconstruction, by restoring power lines, trafostations, etc., so you just responded to the sweating they won't have those 300 million kunas that are necessary for the rebuilding of the network, trafostations, voltage etc., etc. So it's completely irrelevant here if we're going to express it in this way that you said or total in the financial result, but the fact is that the HEP system loses 300 million kuna a year. This makes his financial position worse, they already wanted him to take over in 2015 with Vrdoljak at the head, it's an honor to have been involved in preventing this work and we've succeeded in it, but I can see that again This coalition is going towards it. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136931	Thank you very much. We're moving on now with individual debates, Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136932	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, what we were saying a few days ago happened, so from April 1st he collected gas, he collected electricity, some in this assembly were saying that electricity wouldn't collect, but that eventually happened. So, unfortunately, certain tariffs have gone up and what's the fact at this point, in the energy market in the Republic of Croatia, the highest price is paid by citizens. Someone's going to say, it's not full, someone's going to say, ha the prices have jumped, we have to collect, but when you look at our pensioners, when you're looking at people who live on maybe modest pensions, a thousand and a half, two thousand kunas, they get 20 kunas a month big money. And I can't believe that we're looking at certain media information then that it's a small collection, that people almost won't feel it, as if at the level of 200 and something kunas small money. Totally insensitive, no sense for a moment where our people live in which hundreds and hundreds of thousands of pensioners have pensions of less than 2,000 kuna, simply an unacceptable situation. The man then looks at companies that operate very well under these circumstances, looks at hundreds of millions of kunas of gas distributors earning on an annual basis, spills money and simply cannot believe and wonders where the regulator is and how the competence on the market leads to that being so that ultimately consumers are as protected as possible. Because I can't accept that the prices rise at that level, I can't accept that the electricity accumulates when I see that HEP has billions and billions of kuna, means over two billion kunas. I cannot accept that the government is acting in an incorrect and insensitive, socially insensitive way and that there is no concern at all about those who ultimately have to pay because they simply have no alternatives. So you have no alternative to pay another price because you do not have in some situations, or in some situations, but in most situations you have no choice but to take energy from one distributor and that is, what you say in English, take it or leave it. So you can take it or you don't have to have energy at all. And then the question arises as to how the agency works and how the agency prevents some from making extra profits. I said, HEP over 2 billion kunas a year. A state-owned company, then hundreds of public procurements that are done in a non-transparent way, I was talking about one such purchase a few weeks ago, where some 70 million kunas were paid for the same job five years ago, and today over 110, 120 million kunas are paid. Yeah, well, that job couldn't have grown that much, but those girls' money out there and that way Croatian citizens pay for who knows what kind of shops are going on there. There's little transparency in that market. People are not aware of the price and what they pay in those prices. All they know is they pay too much. I say again, the collection that is at 20 kuna per month or 200 kuna per year is not negligible if it is a significant part of the budget of our pensioners and people who do not have high income. You explain to some pensioner that the 20 kuna is small if he has a pension of 1000, 1500 kuna and on that side he has no choice or is very simple. A message from the state, from the regulator, from whoever delivers, the gas delivery operator, shut down the gas, don't get warmed up. It is simply not sensitive, socially sensitive, or proper behavior toward our fellow citizens. It's amazing to me that a week and a few days ago we were here discussing a similar topic, where HDZ representatives said that the gatherings wouldn't be, as if someone had said good morning, good day, as a fact. And here it is, the 1.4 came, the prices were up, and these same MPs in this debate are taking part and talking as if nothing had happened, as if they hadn't said anything personally. The regulatory agency is, in my opinion, an institution that needs to work exclusively in the interests of consumers, regulate the market in such a way as not to generate extra profits, encourage certain competitiveness, give citizens the best service at the most optimal price and simply do not peel people. At this point I have a feeling that in the Republic of Croatia people are also peeling in this area, I said that it is possible that HEP has over 2 billion kunas of profits and that the price of electricity is rising. And that it is then explained by the need for market conditions to simply be such that the price has to rise, and in fact it is seen from the HEP financial reports that they live very, very well, regardless of what we have mass entanglements, that we have people who deserve nothing else to be in HEP’s management structures, except that they are HNS or HDZ. That's what just bothers people, that's what people don't like and simply, feel a certain injustice and that we as HS, as representatives who represent them elected directly at the elections must do something about it. Ladies and gentlemen of the HDZ and the HNS, it's not party discipline all over the world, listen to people, listen to what they tell you, do something like most, except worry about whether you're going to arrest someone in HEP and what my colleague Krešo Beljak said, very well today on Twitter I read this article that Sanader went to jail, but HDZ continues to act on this non-transparent and in many cases and criminal ways, and until it is prevented, until it stops HDZ in that quest on public money, on non-transparent spending, on people's capture, on taking care of party friends and everything that goes along with it, it won't, will not, will be a happy and happy state. And on that side you can look gentlemen from HDZ into the floor, pretend you can't hear me, but you need to hear the voice of the citizens. So, yes, Sanader has symbolically ended up in prison, but HDZ continues to do evil in the Republic of Croatia, continues to devastate the budget of the Republic of Croatia, force people from the Republic of Croatia, do what should not, and should do exactly the opposite, should protect our fellow citizens and create conditions in the Republic of Croatia so that people can live here with dignity, create their families, create their own perspective, and not go to Ireland, Germany or Austria, but the concerns of the HDZ whether our people go to the EU, it is important that they suffer their own on HEPs, JANAFs and all those other companies that they have given up and simply don't give from there. And on the other hand, here, that's what we have to say right now, maybe I went a little off topic, maybe just a little bit, but of course we here as agents have to talk about what our people are torturing. Our people are plagued by the boastful behavior where a HDZ man gets out of an official car and hits a citizen on the road, imagine that behavior? From a state-owned company, a man attacked a citizen on the road just because he was signaled to him why he didn't stop at a walking crossing. So is this the way people working in the energy sector should behave, in love with HDZ? And so again I say, it's really a syntagma, that Ivo Sanader is gone, but unfortunately, the damage and harmful behavior that HDZ is doing continues and we just all have to get up to stop this harmful behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136933	He was looking for a replica of Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136934	... Dear colleague Maras, I have entered your exhibition, and we both claim that the Republic of Croatia is energized and that we have major problems, but you see, you have also said that the most HNS personnel there are in these sectors of HEP, JANAF, the Ministry of Energy, why do you think they fly there? [[Speaker not enabled]] A man gets the impression when he gets to HEP, so he writes HEP up there, it feels like the HNS headquarters is there, right? Why is that? Vrdoljak tried to privatize HEP in your term, so he failed, they're doing it again now because you see it shrinking, they cut the nets, they cut 300 million, they want, they want to destabilise HEP, what do you think HNS is doing there, and why is it acting like that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136935	Replication response, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136936	It's as clear as Mr. Lovrinović's day. If the people of the HNS are ready overnight, at 2 a.m. to betray their voters and tell them we don't care that you chose us not to have HDZ in power and run to Plenkovic for a few executive posts, you've detected well, it's just the energy companies where they sat down, cleaned up their positions and not given up from there. If they're willing to do that, then you can think how much they care about our fellow citizens, they don't care about their fellow citizens, they care that they can arrest 15, 20 people from Zeline into a particular fund, that they can throw some other people in HEP, that's the only meaning of that one, I'm sure, the most client-ist party in the Republic of Croatia. Although in competition with HDZ it is very difficult [[Intruder: Time]] To achieve. [[Intruder: Mr. Maras' time]] So that's considering on clientelism [[Intruder: Mr. Maras, time...]] Incomprehensible/...expressed in these two parties, HDZ and HNS. [[Time, Mr. Beljak...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136937	Come on, sir, let's not say we overcame that phase, right? Mr. Whitey, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136938	Thank you very much, Vice President. I need to replicate to a respected colleague, Maras, who claimed in his debate that he was out of the picture. You're not out of the picture, Mr. Maras. HEP is quite a subject when it connects with HDZ, so we haven't forgotten those meetings where Mr. Sanader, who has now gone to prison, asked all the management presidents, all the public companies, and among other things HEP to give money, bags of money for the campaign. So, that's something that HDZ can't escape from, that's all you or the vast majority of you were subjects of Eve Sanader and after that, subjects of Mrs. Kosor, then Mr. Karamark and now Mr. Plenkovic. Plenkovic = Sanader, HDZ is the same, it's simply the same party and Mr Maras when he talks about HEP, then he talks about HDZ, it's a modus operandi, not only HEP, but also other companies and not simply offends healthy brains of all citizens [[Intruder: Thank you]] That he can be responsible for everything [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] What happened was basically just Sanader, Mr. Maras's complete HDZ is responsible. Mr. Radin, I'm responsible for Mr. Marasu, not you. [[Intruder: Mr. Beljak]] But you're distracting me, I'm answering him. [[Intruder: Yes, but you answered as long as it took and now please]] Incomprehensible/... [[No, I respect you, I respect the weather and now you will speak...]] The speakers speak at the same time, do not understand. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nine seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136939	Yes, Mr. Radin, there's nowhere like this on a hundred like you. So I've been in many parliaments of the world, so as soon as zero turns it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136940	I have to interrupt you, in these parliaments all of you rule out counsel, if, I'll give you the time I've taken away from you, exclude counsel, e.g. in the EU, parliament is excluded by MPs. So they're shutting down the microphone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136941	Well, it doesn't mean we have to. All blindly listen to what they're doing. [[I don't know which parliaments you've been in.]] So, Mr. Beljak, absolutely, if you see that famous proverb of wolf hair changing, but you never see it at HDZ. Karamarko, Kosor, Plenkovic, Sanader, all of this is, you can put management during them, as far as HDZ is concerned is identical. The nuances are at stake. Chuck, I'd say people are the same. Well, when you're looking here at the Parliament, Mr. Jandrokovic is in all the pictures from the '90s away with the presidents of the HDZ. Mr. Bacic was Minister of Sanader's Government. Well, that's people, HDZ. That's that HDZ. There's no other HDZ than Sanader's HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136942	Thank you. Mr. Stevo Culey, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136943	Who about what, a soldier about shortness, and you about honesty. So I wonder why I'm here among you, what I'm doing here, so you're accusing yourself, you're hitting on each other, and I say, "Woe to our children in the country," which we'll do without you, if these come back to you. So he said, so my son went to Germany to work for who? Well, because of you. And for all those who sat here. When you're so smart, when you know all this, how many criminal charges did you file? How many parliamentary questions did you file? None of those listings you're listing. Well, I've filed 57 criminal charges for war crimes myself. Retirement. From home. From the field. And what have you been doing all this time? You've been gleaning together, I guess. What are you doing in the halls and coffee? Why doesn't one of you drink coffee with me? No one ever stopped or talked to me. And you drink coffee... [[Thank you, Mr. Culey.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136944	Mr. Culey, you were... Answer, Mr. Maras. Answer, Mr. Maras Turn off the microphone, please. [[Lies. /]] Here you go, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136945	Thank you very much. Mr. Culey, you're not just wondering what you're doing here, wondering a lot of our fellow citizens. What are you even doing here? So that's not the only question you ask yourself, but you expect too much from me. So I'd drink with HDZ's coffee around the Parliament, and here I'd criticise that power, so I think it would show that I'm not consistent, so I can talk, but this is how you suggest that I talk and talk to people, one here and the other, so I'm not a chip. That's what chips do. Gordan Maras treats HDZ the same way here and the hallway, and tomorrow he will act the same way because it is one of the fundamental values why citizens trust him that he is always the same. On that side there are no double criteria for me or possible that I will ever support this Sanader HDZ in any way. [[Thank you. Thank you.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136946	Mr. Lenart now has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136947	Comrade Maras, I must admit I didn't understand you very well when you said Sanader was symbolically in prison. Sanader's in jail. But it's symbolic of something else. It is symbolic that his closest associates, like Parliament Speaker Jandrokovic, the president of the HDZ Club Branko Bačić, Cobankovic, Fiolic and all those who were his closest peninsulas to God, are not in prison. And I don't believe that only Sanader was wrong and that he was the only one who knew where the money was going and that he was carrying all that money, had to be helped by someone. I think there's a symbolism that he's the only one in prison, and everyone else is laughing and betraying him and watching him suffer and try to get out of that unfortunate Remetin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136948	Thank you. Mr. Maras, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136949	So you're right, so they think they got rid of it, that they got rid of the problem because Mr. Sanader's here, now as HDZ is clean, and basically, he's not clean. It's only now that the stories are being opened, unfortunately only our judiciary, which also happens to be the HDZ 90s with Mr. Shex at the head, works very slowly. Where are those judgments and where have these processes been going for more than 10 years? No one can erase images from our heads or from the Internet or from the media. Pictures by Mr. Sanader and Jandrokovic, with counterpart Bačić, with colleague Suker, with colleagues and colleagues who are all here, equally with the same excitement and with the same emotion welcomed him and Karamark and Mr. Plenkovic today, all the same society, unfortunately HDZ It works the same way and continues. [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136950	Thank you. Let's move on with the debates. Mr. Mato Chichak. He's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Miro Totgergeli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136951	Thank you, Vice President. Today we have heard a lot of debates here in the debate on amendments and additions to the Statute of HERA which did not have much to do with the subject itself, but along the way we have heard a lot of thesis and claims that do not stand in many ways. I think it was a colleague, Sagar, on behalf of the club, he was arguing, so I can't replicate it, which is why I called for an individual debate. He was talking about the tendency of HERA to regulate energy prices, perhaps even holding the economy back if I interpreted it well. However, he stated for the comparison that when we opened the oil products market, no one even notices when the price of diesel or gasoline rises or lowers, it regulates the market and does not make any decisions based on it. Now that we're talking about Harry and her role, Then HERA doesn't have the authority to regulate the electricity market. That's what I was saying on behalf of the club, HERA is the only one who controls the work of the activity that is regulated, and that is, in the case of electricity, they are transmission and distribution system operators. And one where HERA participates and where it can decide on prices are network prices. One of the only roles of HERE in determining tariff items is the guaranteed supply and that is that. The price of electricity is formed on the market and we have 10 suppliers between us and HEP and they compete with customers, offer them the more favourable they can offer the price of energy and based on it and make contracts with customers. So we have an open electricity market and prices are formed on the basis of the market. So, this thesis that HERA is in some way holding back or not holding back, helping or not helping the economy with the price of electricity simply doesn't stand. What does a network actually serve? I tried to explain it through the replica, but I was running out of time, so the network operator's transmission system serves to build a network and trans-stations, not power plants, not production facilities, but portable ones. Therefore, the transmission lines are from 110 kW to 400 kW and the corresponding trafo station. And that's what Hops does, it was the thesis that today was said here, that HERA, by deciding on the network of the HopS, had cut off the HopS and that he now had too much profit. On the other hand, SDP counterparts claim that HEP has too much profit, so there is one contradiction within the opposition. However, the network does not serve HEP that it generates profit and HERA based on what the HOPS does and on the basis of the data it collects determines the amount of the network for HOPS, as well as on the basis of the collected data, which can collect HERA itself and which is required by HEP to determine the price of the network for distribution, for the distribution system operator. And it also builds nets, from low voltage to 35 kW and belonging trafostations and connections to the network. That the price of the network that HERA has set is correctly determined we can see from the recent report, the HERE report for 2017 where we have a review in the last 5 years of how much HOP and HEP ODS have invested in their facilities and then we see that the investments are even higher in 2017 than they were in previous years, which means that the network that they have determined and the revenues from the network are sufficient to maintain the transmission network, i.e. the distribution network, and that they satisfy and raise the quality of supply or supplier, supply, i.e. supply. distribution and CAPS to raise the quality of both voltage and network and to give security to citizens that they will do their job in a good way. Therefore, the the thesis that the Croatian energy system, or electricity system, is at risk, simply does not stand. Because it is not true that, only the facts work, during the Croatian state, so since '90. To date, a new Lesce hydropower plant has been built, but on the other hand, hydropower plants have all been restored, changed and generators and all other equipment, raised power, top power plants. Therefore, we cannot say that our system is compromised, nor can we say that HEP, now one that no longer regulates HERA, therefore HEP, who owns production plants and those HEP supplies that are also competing on the market and selling electricity, invests in its production capacities and keeps them at an envious level. The price of electricity from 1.4, so today it's true again, the price of electricity from 1.4 has not changed. So I repeat the price of electricity with 1.4 hasn't changed, it hasn't changed where it's universal supply. What does universal supply mean? It is the supply that serves the household when they do not choose any of the suppliers they can find on the market, and there is a HEP supplier they can find on the market, if they do not choose it then they remain in that universal supply and price and universal supply with 1.4 has not changed, therefore no household. The price at 1.4 hasn't changed. The citizens didn't get any different accounts. Nothing's changed for them. On the other hand, all businessmen can and should negotiate the price of electricity with suppliers on the market. Those who do not want it or whose supplier has failed, which I think has not yet happened or perhaps once, must have found a new supplier at some time. And that's why there are tariffs and a legal solution that this businessman, the entrepreneur, doesn't run out of supplies, so whoever sells him electricity then he goes to HEP Elektra in so-called. guaranteed supply. The tariff items are defined as being lower for the first months and the first two months gave him the opportunity to contract with the supplier on the market the most favourable he can find in the electricity price market and if he doesn't want to do it for some reason, then he is forced to do it by doing it after that 2 months. It collects the amount and the tariffs are defined after that 2 month. And now they're changing right now, only the items that are related to the guaranteed supply. I explained what she's for. So no one who wants to contract a supplier, any entrepreneur with 1. He had absolutely nothing to do with it, and if this was too much for him and he wanted to be in guaranteed supply, he could go back to the supplier and settle the price at what's cheapest on the market. And I'll conclude, therefore, dear citizens, when they tell you that the price of electricity has been accumulated by 1. 4, everyone who says that lies to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136952	Thank you, too. You have five replicas, the first replica was asked for by Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136953	Thank you very much. Mr. Totgergeli, please give it one more time, you're confusing people here. You're saying that the electricity price didn't add up, and then you put on the whole diapazone of users and possibilities. Tell me if the price of electricity is 1. 4th picked up at least for one user? It doesn't matter now whether it's collected or not because I have information that for entrepreneurs, the price has accumulated electricity by 20, somewhere up to 30%. Don't confuse people. You're saying it didn't pick up and it picked up. Just because you found one group that didn't, that doesn't mean that in an absolute amount of electricity prices it didn't add up, it was, like, 20 to 30 percent. And that's what's important. So I don't know if you're doing it consciously or because of what you just don't want to admit the fact, on April 1st for entrepreneurs, it's up to 20% to 30%, and by increasing prices, it'll all have an impact on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136954	Mr. Totgergeli, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136955	Comrade Maras, I really don't understand how you think, you were even a minister and when you deliberately, if you're aware of what's going on on the market and if you're doing it on purpose, then you're malicious and if you're doing it for ignorance, then I understand you. But the electricity price for the entire enterprise has not changed, only the guaranteed supply has changed and no entrepreneur has to be on the guaranteed supply. If he wants to and if he really wants to pay it, that price, so let him pay it and have the option of 10 suppliers among other things, there is a HEP supplier who offers him cheaper, only he has to contract it, he doesn't have to be on the guaranteed supply. So the electricity price for the entire household and for the complete entrepreneurs who make up 80, 92% did not add up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136956	Thank you, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136957	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Totgergeli, I'm sorry, it's a little harder to say his last name but he won't mind a colleague, you said in your debate that no one even notices a change in the price of gasoline and diesel. Citizens are very well aware of the change in the price of petrol and diesel and are very angry at the fact that the price of oil is falling on the world market and the price of fuel on our gas stations is rising, but unfortunately we are here without our company that distributes, processes and deals with it, so we can only watch how they determine and pour or not pour but you can't say that citizens, that no one notices a change in the price of gasoline and diesel. Very, very good notice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136958	Thank you, too. Answer, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136959	My friend Lenart, you didn't listen to me very well. That's not what I said, that's what my colleague Sagar said and I was only in my individual debate interpreting it because I couldn't answer it through the replica after he was arguing on behalf of the club, so then I processed it through an individual debate. I also agree with you that citizens know when the price of oil derivatives increases but he cited it as an example that when the market is open, no one notices it or whether it is better than something regulated and I claim that the electricity price on the market and that it also changes market but by 1. 4. The price of electricity for both households and entrepreneurship has not changed and there is no need to deceive the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136960	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Lenart, here you go. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136961	... Wounded in Article 238, colleague Totgergeli, look at your phonogram, I listened very well, and when you said, at the moment I wrote down what you said and you can't say that you didn't say you didn't say it and that I was wrong to say it and to deceive the public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You cheat, too, because you don't remember what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136962	Let's move on, Mr. Cresso Whiteman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136963	Thank you very much. I'd ask Mr. Totgergelly, has he ever been to Germany or the Netherlands? So a very logical question, a logical question. Germany and the Netherlands are full of solar panels, crowded, and there is no such thing in Croatia. As mayor of Samobor, I even received some German investors who wanted to do something in my city or in the Republic of Croatia, they received a hep. Now I'm curious, what makes it worth Germany and the Netherlands and it's a renewable energy source and it's not worth it to us? Indeed, honest answer please, why is this so and not working, so the only logical answer offered to me is that someone does not allow that technology to enter the Croatian market, the market that you said was open? Here, please answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136964	Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136965	So, if you followed the HERA data they gave for 2017, then kWh incentives paid for solar power plants per kWh will be paid 1.93k for solar power plants and, for example, for wind, 0,74kn will be paid. On the other hand, from the sun, but we have even more wind in Germany and also in the Netherlands. So the solar and wind power plant collectors. More than that, more wind power plants than solar power plants. The only thing that prevented it was actually the price of collectors and cost-effectiveness. When the price of collectors on the market falls and we will have much more to be built on. And we've brought a legal solution that allows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136966	Thanks a lot, time. And we also had a violation of Mr. Whiteman's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136967	Article 238 was injured, Mr. Totgergeli tells the truth, so it is impossible, Germany has double or even triple the sun of Croatia, that is the first thing. And the German investors, the Germans who came to me, when I put them together with the people in HEP, they told me not to give us, they were willing to invest their money, they weren't looking for any incentives, absolutely nothing, but they wanted to make money. They said no to HEP, they won't give us. And the results you see, there are no collectors in the country that have double or even triple the hours of sunshine than Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136968	Thank you, time, thank you very much. Answer, no answer, Mr. Totgergeli's breach of Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136969	So the chairman, you actually hurt 239 because it wasn't a violation of Rules of Procedure 238, it can't be a violation of Rules of Procedure 238 that someone's telling the truth, it doesn't exist in the Rules of Procedure. And it's my colleague, Whitey, talking about the fact that HEP doesn't. HEP also allows for the connection of both solar collectors and anything else. Believe me, that's right. And when there were incentives, when there were incentives and when they were...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136970	Thank you, no, no, thank you very much, thank you very much, it's turned into a debate, I apologize, it's turned into a debate, I won't give any warning to anyone, I won't give it to anyone, I won't give it to you at all, but I won't give it any further to be used... About the break, yeah, go ahead. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136971	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS Democrats, I request a 10-minute break to consult on factual data related to investments in wind power plants and solar collectors in Croatia. So what Mr. Totgergeli said was a lie, he has no data. I personally came with people from Germany, with Germans, investors who watched the number of sundial hours in Samobor, which is otherwise twice as much as in Dalmatia and said this is a lot more than in Germany, we would like to invest our money, if there's any land in which we could do it. Of course, I told them that there were, of course I told them that they were welcome, they would open 10 jobs, we made contacts with HEP, with all the authorities, they got rejections wherever they came, after 6 months of knocking on the door of HEP various levels they said here it's impossible to do business, or here they obviously rule lobbys that don't let us come to your market. Pure story, pure story. And Mr. Totgergelly doesn't know that, that's his problem. So I'm publicly telling the fact that German investors were rejected because they didn't fit in who knows what kind of relationship they have in HEP. Whoever goes by car to Germany or the Netherlands will see a lot of solar collectors in a country that has far less sundial hours than in Croatia and we use our sun instead of electricity becoming cheaper and not having to gather we simply guess who knows what lobbys with a result of a higher price of electricity for citizens and especially what saddens me for our entrepreneurs who in every normal society should be cheaper energy prices because they are the ones who create added value. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136972	Mr. Totgergeli, you asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He also asked for Mr. Whitey, and I explained why I wouldn't give it anymore, Mr. Whitey understood that, but he also asked for a break. You want to take a break too? ... Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] 27, 37, 38 already. ... No, before we go, not before we take a break, we take a break before and then we move on to the replica. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Mr. Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136973	This government has persistently assured people that it's doing everything in its power to make them feel better. However, regulators insist...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136974	But you have to say, you have to say I'm asking for a recess for consultation so that it enters the record, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136975	Well, Mr. Radin, do you have to come in every time?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136976	Yeah, when it's right. I'm looking for a recess to consult, is that right?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136977	Mr. Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136978	Because you got up and started talking and no one can know why you started talking, sorry, go ahead. Time stands, you'll have time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136979	Mr. Radin, please don't interrupt me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136980	Please don't argue with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136981	I beg you to stop interrupting me every time I speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136982	What are you looking for, what? Then I'm going to ask you a question, and I'm absolutely right about that. What are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136983	I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136984	He's doing a consult. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136985	The reason is that this government is constantly lying to Croatian citizens to work in their interest and to God's story about some growth in standards and it is clear that regulatory agencies systematically allow the price rise of all possible energy, means electricity, gas and ultimately will collect and heat. And it's simply that the decline in living standards because of these gatherings is significantly higher than it's going to be because of the rise in pensions it swears out. And that's what I wanted to point out, and for that reason, I asked the Honorable Chairman for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136986	She's been granted a break, so until 11.40. [[It's 11:30 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:44 AM]] There's two more replicas. There's a first line. There you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136988	Vice President, I'd like to ask you to take a break on behalf of the Most Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136989	Yeah, but we can't take a break, we have to at least do something and then we can look for a break because the break isn't going to happen. Wait a minute, then I'll give you the words again. [[Intruder Dobrović: Good.]] You got it. [[Intruder Dobrović: Waiting for one replica.]] Let us have at least those replicas and closing words and then the break will come by itself but you can look for it, normally, I'll give you my word when you're looking. Mr. Lovrinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136990	Thank you. Dear fellow Totgergeli, you actually want to prove to us something that is impossible and that the price of electricity and gas has not accumulated and will not accumulate. So the citizens know best, the gas will be more expensive 7% and the entrepreneurs, the electricity by 20 to 30%, and then they'll collect anything else that works on electricity. Croatia is highly energy-hazarded, 41% of energy imports, you see. The current is accumulated, you lie to people that it's not, so as the ruling party, especially the HNS that holds HEP, who holds JANAF, who holds the Ministry of Energy and Environmental Protection and you see, they're not there now when they need to explain to people why it collected electricity, they're gone. Therefore, all of you citizens who think that HNS contributes to you and protects you, now you see that you have to pay for more expensive gas, more expensive electricity, and for all of that, we have to get rid of all those who cheat on citizens, one they promise and the other they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136991	Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136992	My colleague Lovrinović, I respect you, but I must tell you that I am not lying, but you are because with 1.4 the electricity price has not changed for the household and has not changed for entrepreneurship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136993	Last replica... There's no replica on the replica. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Is it a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136994	My colleague Totgergeli called me a liar, you understand, so you heard, you talked, you didn't hear. Please Vice President of the Parliament, respond, I'm giving you an argument. While gas prices on the markets, on the markets, fell, here is the increased price of gas, is it a lie, see the prices of gas on the markets, so see if it's a lie.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136995	Mr. Lovrinović, I can and can agree or disagree with you but it is not the procedure, it is not the procedure, you cannot do this. But you can't do it like that, you can't. Let's move on. We have another replica like I said, so I'll give you, no, I won't give you any more damage to the Rules of Procedure because it's a debate, it's not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't give it anymore. Mr. Vlaovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136996	Thank you, Vice President. My fellow Miro, I am glad that you mentioned entrepreneurs, craftsmen, as they would also be able to facilitate their business, should be more often and more discussed here in the Croatian Parliament. Currently, there are some laws and regulations in the design of the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia, but when you talk to entrepreneurs especially with small craftsmen and even with local self-government units that invest, HEP is one of the companies that is often a brake to investment, their way of treating entrepreneurs often makes them give up their investment, and even Crodux has given up investment in Slavonski Brod because of such relationship with them, HEP relations and hard administrations. Well, I think we have to bring these policies out here on a day-to-day basis, that's what citizens expect us to make business easier for craftsmen and entrepreneurs, and that's why I'm glad you brought them up.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136997	Thank you very much. Answer, Mr. Totgergeli.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136998	I agree with you, colleague Vlaovic, about most of what you said in your replica. This debate today is about the Hera statute. HERA has a role to play right now when you say HEP, first of all, you think of the possible HOPS and HEP ODS because the rest of HEP is on the market and it works differently. It is the HERA that has the task of controlling the work of HOPS and HEP ODS and that this HOPS and HEP ODS be as mild as possible and as accessible as possible but in what legal solutions and their rules allow and I think there is then the role of HERA if something happens there because of some finding in HEP ODS wanted otherwise, and therefore prevents an entrepreneur, this entrepreneur complains HERA and HERA is the one who will intervene. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u136999	I welcome the students and students of the School of Economics from Velika Gorica, thank you for being with us, we have a nice round of applause for the students. And now I give my word to Mr. Dobrovic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u137000	Thank you very much. I am asking for a break on behalf of the MOST Club to consult on energy and energy issues. In fact, when you draw a line and look at the situation so far and the balance of the energy picture of Croatia, we can definitely not be grateful, neither grateful nor satisfied because looking at especially renewable energy sources, you can notice an incredible imbalance or imbalance between wind and sun, there were words here today. It is true that the sun once sought greater incentive because of a higher cost of consumption or higher cost of production due to higher investment needs, however, today the situation is quite different. What is the balance, Croatia today produces only less than 0.5% of electricity from photovoltaic installations and is therefore practically at the very beginning of Europe despite being a European country in the Mediterranean and despite our strong potential to change it. How to change, we have given, of course, different solutions, we have given one legal solution where consumers would simply become producers where they would effectively achieve a massively distributed energy production that has a very low impact on the network and we do not say that this must be a concrete solution, however, it would be necessary for the ruling here and the regulator to take decisive measures not to raise Croatia from that last place in Europe, the embarrassing last place in terms of the production of electricity from renewable sources. So this is how we're in the midst of clientelism.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u137001	Thanks, time, I'm being warned on time. Yes, I'd like to grant a stop by 12 and 2 minutes. After that, we will have the final word of the promoter. ... They tell me we're going to go directly to the vote, then it means that it's not going to be voted on today, okay. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's even cleaner than what I suggested, thank you. ANNOUNCEMENT IN 11.52 HOURS
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u137002	We will now return to the point at which we were, since there is no one else to discuss, I will conclude the debate on the amendment proposal and the addition of the Hera Statute and we will vote on it when the conditions are met. This will end today's work and we will continue on Tuesday as announced. ... We're going to keep this up another time because this debate has spread and as you can see, there's actually no one in the hall and there are other obligations of parliamentary deputies, obviously there's no point in talking to yourself, is there? [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] And it's not in your interest, is it? ... Session interrupted at 15.02 p.m. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-04-05-0.u137003	Proposal to amend and supplement the Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency, the proposal is concluded by the Administrative Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The energy regulation law, I am voting on a decision to give prior consent to the proposal to amend and supplement the Statute of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 80 for, 22 abstentions and 7 against, have made a decision to give prior consent. Report on the financial audit carried out by the Red Cross Society. The applicant is the main public auditor, we will vote on this item on the agenda in accordance with Article 44(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. In accordance with the proposal of the home working body, I am voting on the following conclusion. The report on the financial audit carried out by the Red Cross Society is hereby adopted. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 93 votes for and 1 abstentions have reached the conclusion that it was proposed by the parent constituency working body.
