ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u124036	Dear colleagues and colleagues, within a week, the deadline for the government of the Republic of Croatia to propose that the parliament adopt a new health measure law, to exercise the right to freedom to decide on the birth of children. That deadline was given to the Government by the Constitutional Court two years ago and what the government did was nothing. Shame on the government of Andrej Plenkovic, who is led to boast that he is credible and who likes to talk about respecting the rule of law and institutions. What kind of government is it that does not respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, what kind of message sends to citizens and other institutions, a government that does not respect the Constitutional Court? It is clear why the Constitutional Court in February 2017 gave the deadline of 2 years to pass a new law, because the existing law is outdated, dates back to 1978 and needs to be brought into line with the current time, termological and content. It is a clear message from the Constitutional Court, an abortion cannot be prohibited, everything is, therefore, clear, the government had 2 years to propose a law, which will respect women's right to choose and which will regulate the exercise of that right in a modern and modest manner. The government had plenty of time, but apparently did not have the courage and determination to regulate the issue of pregnancy in a modern and reasonable way, without ideological limitations and without hitting women's rights to choice. Andrej Plenkovic has proved to be a political coward, hides behind Minister Kujundzic and his commissions, and in fact Plenkovic is afraid of HDZ backbones and clerics without whom there are no majority in the assembly and there are no authorities. I repeat, it is embarrassing that the government does not respect the Constitutional Court, and it is equally embarrassing for Plenkovic and his government for not caring about women's right to choose. It is these days in the media that we read the devastating facts, 20% of the hospitals that have gynecological departments, medical termination of pregnancy cannot be done because all doctors have shown a call for conscience. Of the 322 gynecologists in public hospitals, 186 or 58% showed a conscience appeal, women are sent to other cities, and some hospitals send women to counseling even though it is illegal. In some hospitals, it is even sent to a first-degree and second-degree commission, although under the existing law, termination of pregnancy can be carried out. In clinics, some clinics have almost all gynecologists voiced an appeal to their conscience when it comes to medical termination of pregnancy, but these same gynecologists do not have a conscience call when it comes to medically assisted fertilisation. With the call of conscience and the fact that a woman has to pay for the termination of pregnancy, this procedure becomes unreachable to the vast majority of women, and in some parts of Croatia is completely disabled. So, laws are broken, women's rights are violated, women's health is threatened, and Andrej Plenkovic obviously knows all of this but he hasn't cared, and he's been cowardly silent for two years and he's done nothing to pass a new law. We Democrats have shown that the law can be prepared within the deadline, that the Constitutional Court's decision can be respected and that the most important thing is to protect the first woman in the election. To make, a woman has the right to make a decision to stop pregnancy until 12 weeks old, she has the right to be at the burden of HZZO, contraception and all measures for family planning should be on the burden of HZZO, there is no additional counselling, there is no additional period of rest, it is all the right of a woman and that is what we have in this law and ordered. The draft law is on the table, it is addressed to the parliamentary procedure, so I call on the President of the Assembly to put it on the table urgently because we still have time to discuss and pass a new law, we can show that we can respect the Constitutional Court's decision and respect the women's right to vote. As a man and a doctor, I am ashamed to hear that medical pregnancy discontinuation is possible only in Pula and Rijeka although it is half cheaper, less intense, less risky, less harmful to the future and.../incomprehensible/... women. Most women in Croatia are not available, as if we do not live in the 21st century. As a politician, I would be ashamed not to do everything I can to change the situation. The proposed law is at least what I can do as an agent. I call once again on all colleagues and colleagues in the assembly regardless of party colors to show that you care about the welfare and health of women in Croatia, show that you are protecting women's right to choose, show that decisions of the Constitutional Court must respect, show that you are not [[Intruder: Time.]] political cowards, if you don't do it [[Intruder: Time.]] You'll be ashamed of yourself tomorrow. [[Intruder: A colleague, Mrs. Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u124037	Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues, as always on the first day of the plenary session, we have a free speech from the club representatives and independent representatives, so today the first respected colleague, Mirano Mrsic, is on his way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u124038	Dear colleagues and colleagues, every day passing by the government of Andrej Plenkovic, shows that decisions by the Constitutional Court are not binding on it. More than a month ago, we should have had a new law on the termination of a pregnancy called the Health Measures Act to exercise the right to free birth decisions. The government and parliament ignored the deadline given by the Constitutional Court two years ago. It is a great shame for the government of Andrej Plenkovic, who likes to boast that it is credible and who likes to talk about respecting the rule of law and institutions. What kind of government does not respect the Constitutional Court's decisions, what message sends to citizens and other institutions by a government that does not respect the Constitutional Court? But on the side that Andrej Plenkovic does not respect the Constitutional Court, but the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and HDZ does not respect 57%, 51% of the people in our country, does not respect our fellow citizens, does not respect women and does not respect their right to choose. It is clear to everyone what the Constitutional Court ordered in 2017, the abortion cannot be banned in Croatia and the government is 2 years old that the existing law is modern. The government had plenty of time, but obviously not enough courage and determination to regulate the issue of pregnancy in a modern and reasonable way without ideological restrictions and without incurring women's right to choice. Andrej Plenkovic has shown that he is a political coward, hides behind Minister Kujundzic and his commissions, and in fact Plenkovic is afraid of HDZ backbones and clerics without whom there are no majority in the assembly and there are no authorities. He's afraid of cursing from church altars because there's an election so it wouldn't be nice to blow off the famous from his character and deeds. In the media we read the devastating facts 20% of the hospitals that have gynological departments do not stop pregnancy because all doctors have shown an appeal to conscience. Of the 322 gynecologists in public hospitals, 58% showed a conscience appeal. Women are sent to other cities, and some hospitals send women to counseling even though it's against the law. In some hospitals, women are even sent to a first-degree and second-degree commission, although under the current law they can terminate pregnancy without it. In some hospitals, almost all gynecologists expressed a conscience call and did not stop pregnancy. And what happened in Dubrovnik was impossible, impossible and imagined because all the anesthesiologists in that hospital who were on duty woke up and the gynecologist had to perform a pregnancy interruption in the full consciousness of the patient. Companions who have a conscience of not participating in a pregnancy interruption did not warn them that by refusing anesthesia, they violated the Hippocratic oath they swore to. All my colleagues put their conscience ahead of the well - being of the patients and the Dubrovnik hospital returned to the 18th century. If they had done so in the war, they would have been tried by international conventions, but unfortunately there is no convention that would condemn what happened to that woman in Dubrovnik. Women's rights to choice are systematically violated and citizens' health is threatened. Andrej Plenkovic obviously knows all this, but he doesn't care, he has been cowardly silent and has been doing nothing for two years to pass a new law. The position of the Amsterdam Democratic Coalition is clear, the woman has the right to make a decision on the termination of pregnancy until 12 weeks, to stop pregnancy in all public hospitals on the burden of HZZO, to decide on her own without incurring privacy and without obligation to consult additionally, must have the option of selecting an end to pregnancy with medicines or surgery, if it is a surgical must be painless and must be assured of the availability of procedures in all public hospital institutions. I call once again on my colleagues and colleagues in the assembly since the proposal of the Amsterdam coalition of Democrats is on the agenda to show, independently of party colors, that you care about the well-being and health of women in Croatia. Show that you are protecting women's right to choose, show that decisions of the Constitutional Court can and should be respected, show that you are not cowards as prime minister, if you do not do so Tomorrow you'll be ashamed. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127717	We are now on the agenda, the first item is: Final proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on Privatisation of INA-INDUSTRIA NAFTE d.d., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 1(1) of the Treaty on the The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the Republic of Croatia 172 The Rules of Procedure of HS. Do you have any replicas of what I'm saying or what? Well, the man hasn't started yet, so be it. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the Proposer to discuss this legislative proposal in an urgent manner. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article. 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Economy, and the amendment was submitted by the Committee on Legislatives. I would now like to ask the proposer's representative to give us an additional explanation, Honored Minister of Environment and Energy Tomislav Coric, please welcome the ministers. So please keep in the air the replica tables so that he can write down a colleague everything he is. Here you go, and you have the right to speak for half an hour, so until 11 o'clock and one minute and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127718	Dear President HS, honourable MPs and MPs, allow me to point to the circumstances, reasons, amendments and additions of the INA Privatisation Act in the next 30 minutes, and introduce you to the details of the changes themselves. I'm sure the debate on INA's complexity goes beyond my half-hour exposure, it seems necessary to me at the very beginning to return to the past. On the 26th of October 2000, The government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to launch the restructuring process as preparations for the privatisation of INA. At a session of HS held in July 2001. A package of laws has been passed and this is the Energy Act, the Energy Regulation Act, the Electricity Market Act, the Gas Market Act, the Oil and Oil Market Act, all in order to reform the energy sector, the basis of the Electricity Directive and the Gas Directive. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 1st century 5. The 1996 Privatisation Act There was a need for the adoption of the Special Law, with the aim of a solution that would enable the implementation of the privatisation of INA to an operational extent. As mentioned above, 2002. The INA Privatisation Act itself has been passed. A key article to understand the privatisation process is art. The fourth law, applicable law of 2002. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 4. The Privatisation Act of the INA, the privatisation was planned to take place in the following way, by transferring without compensation 7% shares to Croatian defenders and members of their families, by selling up to a maximum of 7% of the shares of employees and former employees of INA, by selling up to a maximum of 25% + 1 shares to a strategic investor, by selling at least 15% of the shares in the public offering procedure in accordance with the regulations governing the issue and traffic of securities to Croatian citizens, with the right to be sold through public offering, selling or replacing the rest of the shares in accordance with the market opportunities of the strategic investor, domestic and legal persons and foreign investors without the right of the championship and special advantages of selling through public offering, selling or replacing the rest of the shares in accordance with the market opportunities of the strategic investor or on the basis of the decision of the Government and the final part of the previous part of the HH. In accordance with Art. 2. 4th Law, the Republic of Croatia retains ownership of over 25% + 1 of the INA shares that will be privatised under a special law following the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU membership, therefore, that is, Art. 4. Please pay attention once again to the fact that the 2002 INA Privatisation Act. the full privatisation of this society was envisaged. And what it really looked like, we'll explain in phases. In the first phase of HS, March 19, 2002. It adopted the INA Privatisation Act, and it is in accordance with Article 1(3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 4th Law 25% + 1 share sold to a strategic investor. In the second phase of 2005, 7% of the INA shares were transferred to Croatian defenders and members of their family without compensation. In the third phase, the privatisation process started in 2006, marked by an initial public offering of 17% of ordinary shares to Croatian citizens under privileged conditions. The fourth phase was held in 2007. and included selling a further 7% share to current and former employees, then the Republic of Croatia reduced its stake below 50%. In the fifth phase of 2008, when MOL voluntarily offered a public offer to buy additional shares of INA, while the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund decided to sell 7% of the shares on a public offer, resulting in an increase in MOL's holding to 47.16%. Afterwards, MOL gained slightly less than 2% points, which totalled 49.08% of INA shares. What preceded, therefore, the changes and additions that are here today before you? Now let us go back 10 years to clarify. Format and content of the Privatisation Act from the adoption itself until 2008. [[Minister, just a little please, Minister, just a little bit.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127719	My colleagues from MOST and my colleague Bernardić, I would like to ask you, my colleague is speaking, to be a little quieter after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127720	Form and content of the Privatisation Act from the adoption itself until 2008. They were not questioned. However, 2008 and 2010 In its negotiating position for the Intergovernmental Conference on the Accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, for Chapter 4, and in the Report and the fulfilment of the commitments set out in Chapter 4 of freedom of movement of capital, the government took the obligation to comply with the EU acquis by adopting amendments to and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of INA, which the amendments should have taken effect until the EU's accession. It is also important to point out that in December 2013. The European Commission launched an EU pilot expressing serious doubts about the compliance of specific rights with Articles 49 and 63. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the European Commission further warned in the pilot that the Government of the Republic of Croatia committed itself in 2010 to amending the law in question in order to ensure compliance with the EU acquis. In February 2014, in response to the EU, the pilot, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pointed out that the Ministry of Economy had drawn up a draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation of INE, which was addressed to other ministries and institutions, but that the process in the meantime had stalled since the issues of privatisation, acquired ownership and corporate management of INO were the subject of these criminal proceedings pending before judicial authorities, as well as two international arbitration proceedings. The government's position at the time was that no changes should be made as long as the proceedings take place. In November 2014, the European Commission sent a letter of formal notice granting a legal assessment that the rights granted to the Privatisation Act to the Republic of Croatia constitute an obstacle to the free movement of capital and the right to capital and to the right of reference, business, I apologize, which is prohibited by Articles 49 and 63. A contract on the functioning of the INE. In January 2015, in a response sent by the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission for a letter of formal notice, it was stated that, at the request of the Republic of Croatia, the arbitration court had taken a decision to determine the provisional measures imposing on MOL to ensure that, in the exercise of its various rights, including those relating to their shares in INA, it was necessary to ensure that at any time the proceedings in the best business interests of INA. In view of such a decision, the court continued its work on amending and supplementing the INE Privatisation Act. At the end of 2015, the debate at the technical level with the representatives of the European Commission was suspended, and on the European Commission's request in June 2016, it was responsible that the Republic of Croatia was unable to amend the law in question in view of the vote of non-trust to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the disbanding of the Croatian Parliament. In February 2017, this government informed the European Commission of the new circumstances relating to the law and the intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to buy INE shares owned by MOL, but in July 2017 the European Commission decided to press charges against the EU Court of Justice against the Republic of Croatia. In September 2017, an amendment to the amendments to the law was made in such a way that a working group working during 2017 and 2018 on proposed amendments and additions resulted in a decision being taken by the European Commission in July 2018 to suspend the procedure for filing an action against the Republic of Croatia. What I want to point out is that, thanks to the government's efforts, the decision to press charges in July 2018 has been suspended. The last quarter of 2018 and January 2019 brought final alignments to the text of the law with the European Commission and that is how we actually closed this process. Ladies and gentlemen, this government has decided to take responsibility, bring the law into line with the European acquis and protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Allow in the next part of the exposure to explain how. In view of all these obvious reasons, the adoption of these amendments and additions, which are, in line with the existing law with the acquis, bear in mind the fact that the law was passed in 2002 when the Republic of Croatia was not an EU member, the removal of infringement of EU law, the suspension of the court case against the EU Court of Justice, and finally and most importantly the protection of the interests of our country at the same time in a way that will not be opposed to the fundamental market freedoms of the EU. For the sake of the Croatian public, it is important to note that these amendments to the Law on Privatisation of INE do not lose the first law because the same right is contained in the amendments to the Intermediary Treaty concluded in 2009. Therefore, the question arises as to what changes are made to the amendments to the INA Privatisation Act. With these amendments and additions, the only article that actually changes these amendments is Article 10th, I believe that the Croatian public and those less addressed are interested in what is contained in Article 10th and why it is changing. Article 10 of the applicable Law on Privatisation of INE contains provisions under which the Republic of Croatia retains specific rights which are examined in the exclusive right of control of changes in ownership as well as in the exclusive veto law on certain decisions of the company's administration, and also provides for the right of the first purchase of the company's total or part of the company's assets under the estimated market value in the event of company liquidation. The European Commission considers that these specific rights could deter business entities from direct or valuable investment in INU d.d. from other Member States. which is listed on the stock market. The fact that the financial value, that the financial value of a decision which requires prior consent in accordance with Article 10(1), (2) and (4) of the law differs depending on the percentage of shares held by the Republic of Croatia, really allows it to, as long as the owner of the 10% shares of the INE, prevent any investor from obtaining a control share in the INA without its consent. The right of first purchases, which is provided for in Article 10(5) of the Law, is also a restriction on the movement of capital as it may prevent potential customers from obtaining INE’s assets. Given that such provisions do not comply with the European acquis and the fundamental market freedoms of the EU, the free movement of capital and the right of business, as prohibited by Articles 63 and 49. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, the European Commission has initiated a procedure for breach of EU law in accordance with Article 258. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and made a decision to press charges against fate, I apologize to the EU Court of Justice in July 2017. Therefore, the amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act INE relate to Article 10. What brings us changes to Article 10th? The amended Article 10th requires a natural or legal person to submit a long-term management and business plan for the purpose of obtaining shares when crossing the threshold of 25 or 50% of the shares with voting rights. On such a plan, the Minister shall issue an opinion to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which shall take a decision on the consent to acquire shares. The government of the Republic of Croatia may deny consent if it assesses that certain circumstances, the EU's position, the lack of respect for international law, democratic principles, the suitability and ability of the acquirer, the penalties so far, the control by the Government of a third country etc., pose a serious public security, the extreme danger of serious damage to public security in order to endanger the safe, reliable and regular supply of energy on the market and the protection of energy supply infrastructure. Furthermore, the possibility for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to seek the removal of the shortages and to take the necessary measures if the shareholder of its activities endangers the safe, reliable and regular supply of energy and the protection of the security of energy supply infrastructure. If the acquirer does not remove the deficiencies, the Government shall have the right to compensation for damages. If the acquirer continuously questions the supply of that infrastructure, the government may decide to withdraw consent to the acquisition of shares. After withdrawing consent, the acquirer is obliged to offer the Republic of Croatia a sale of bankruptcy shares. If it does not offer, the Government shall have the right to request the sale of shares according to the market value of the shares before the trade court. The updated Article 10a of the Republic of Croatia, unlike the practice so far, further strengthens its position on the basis of positive rules in some other EU Member States. In spite of the acquisition of shares, this supplement provides for the election of two representatives of the Republic of Croatia who can attend board meetings without the right to vote. Representatives shall be obliged to submit a proposal to the Minister responsible for Energy for reviewing the decision of the administration, if they consider that the decision poses a serious threat to state interests. The Minister responsible for Energy under Article 10(a) shall have the right to bring an action before the trade court and a proposal to determine a provisional measure if he considers that the decision of the administration seriously endangers or prejudices the supply of energy and the security of the energy supply infrastructure. In an urgent procedure before the court, it shall be taken or decided on a provisional measure delaying the effect of the contested decision taken by the administration until the decision of the court on the case has been taken. I hope that in the past 15 minutes, I have managed to show you the circumstances and the reasons why it was necessary to approach the amendments and additions of this law. I'm sure your discussions on the content of these changes and additions will be constructive and I thank you in advance. At the very end, allow another note. Amendments to the Privatisation Act of the INA are motivated only by the harmonisation of the Croatian acquis with the acquis of the EU, which is a member of the Republic of Croatia, the avoidance of an action before the European Court of Justice and the final protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the new appearance of Article 10(a) of this Act. No other motive stands behind these changes and complements down to do everything to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the context of these changes and additions. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127721	I thank the minister. I'm just going to read everything we've written down now, so if someone isn't written down to say it now. So Lovrinović, Zekanovic, Bunjac, Bulj, Grmoja, Panenić, Maras, Križanić, Vlaović, Hajdas Dončić, Glasović, Dobrović, Mrsić, Felak, Grčić, Mrak Taritas, Žagar, Djakić, Sinčić, Škorić, Branko Bačić, Orepić, Sokol, Perić. Shuker, no, it wasn't safe. That's it, good. He's my first colleague, Lovrinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127722	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the honourable representatives of the ministry. It's pretty clear now. Dear citizens, this government says we don't know how to solve INA's problem, we don't know if we're going to buy it from where to find the money, we estimate that the political damage to further privatisation is less than anything we're going to suffer from arbitration, political turmoil, etc. You used the EU acquis to finish this job, this is the biggest political corruption affair in Croatia since the beginning of this job. Therefore, Croatia will get the big consequences out of this, you say there will be Croatia... Let's leave 1.2% of our ownership with the possibility of sending in two dryers without telling an informant who's going to report what's going on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You from the beginning both HDZ and SDP have ruined the INA set and will answer for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127723	Thank you. Time's up, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127724	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lovrinovic, thank you very much. The only thing that's clear now is that you haven't even read the first Privatisation Act of the INA and not even these amendments and additions, this is clearly evident from your presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127725	Dear colleague Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127726	Dear Minister, I have read and listened carefully to you and the key word in your presentation is legal property., the EU acquis, or Croats, adopt absolutely all the laws that the European Commission or the EU imposes. Absolutely everything. And the excuses are an obstacle to the free movement of capital. Then you say in one sentence two things that are in disagreement, protecting Croatia's interest and EU market freedom. And finally you say that the key article 10 is where the Croats will have the first right to purchase in the event of INA liquidation, so the Croats will be able to buy the remains of the remains of the collapsed INA if it falls apart and we have to be satisfied. So I believe that, unfortunately, we have nothing from the EU, except legal property or their laws that do not correspond to our homeland. Our people. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127727	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127728	Well, sir, the esteemed Mr. Zekanovic, you did read it, but obviously not with understanding. So, Art. The 10th existing INA Privatisation Act says what you said and attributed to the new law or amendments. I apologize to you, however, we can continue the debate after this debate where it is clear and visible, therefore, that despite the fact that you hold that it is different, the RH changes and additions Art. The 10th that you have quoted as future, in fact, after the adoption of this law, has passed, will no longer be in force, absolutely protected by the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127729	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127730	Dear President HS, it is obvious that the minister has violated the article. In 238, where he demeaned and insulted other MPs, or me as an agent. I understand, and so do you. You understand that this law is not good and it's sad, you know that this law is not good and you impose it on us. You force it on us because the EU is so imposing and it's not good, and you know what you're doing, you know what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127731	My colleague Zekanovic, what you said was not at the level that I can say that the injured Rules of Procedure, therefore, did not well explain the reasons why you believe that the Rules of Procedure was injured, but I will not give you a warning. Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127732	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127733	Let me, just a minute, colleague Lovrinović, breach of the Rules of Procedure, what would you do?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127734	Excuse me, Mr. President. 238, how can you say that it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure when the minister insults the MPs that they haven't read anything, that they don't understand something? We're idiots in this HS, right? [[Adversity President: Col. Lovrinović]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127735	Coliga Lovrinović, so what are you, so what you just said here from your place, Coliæ, Minister Ćorić, I did not react, I let go, so he replied to you as he thought.../Invader Lovrinović: Protect us all, not just me from calling that we are... Please, please, please sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down, sit down. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Please sit down. [[Lovrinović: This is a picture of HS where we come here someone to teach a lesson, understand?]] Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127736	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers Ćorić, for Christmas 2016 Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic promised to sell the HEP to buy Hungarian stakes in INA, and on that occasion he told us that the whole process would last a year, that this is a reasonable deadline and framework, that the whole business would be conducted very precisely, very transparently and legally arranged, and that the INA would be owned by Croatia, among other things, as a significant factor in the Southeast European market. Now in 2019, it's been over two years since that statement, we see that there's nothing, so tell me why you gave it up? And I am also curious as to why you as declared democracies are violating the eighth commandment of God, which reads “Do Not Say False Testimony ”? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127737	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127738	I thank you for your question and comment, Your Honor, Commissioner Bunjac, let me refer only to the first part of this inquiry. So that on Christmas 2006 The Prime Minister said that he informed the Croatian public of the government's intention to buy the Hungarian MOL's stake in INA. What we have done in the coming months for the past two years, therefore, that we are also going in this direction and in this context the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not given up its intention to buy the share of Hungarian MOL in INA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127739	Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127740	Thank you very much. INA, a strategic company of the Republic of Croatia, began with white eyes, Slavko Linic and SDP, beat Ivo Sanader while arrested, transferred and processed the most prominent Croatian defenders. And now this is the law that was written, apparently dictated by Jozo Petrovic, a consultant. The only profit he has in the Republic of Croatia since estrangement, theft, robbery of national interests is Jozo Petrovic. And you're aware that this is a death certificate, this is a death certificate for all the robberies he's committed, this is what the SDP started, ended HDZ, and now it's writing you this death certificate, Jozo Petrovic. Please tell the truth that this is the death certificate of this law and tear it down by the ministers, this is the death certificate for the largest energy company, which is the INA. This is a betrayal of national interests. [[Intruder: Thank you]] For which these consultants do not respond [[Intruder: Answer, here are the ministers]] Minister and Government. [[Agreement: Here are the ministers]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127741	Dear Representative Bulj, thank you for your comment, I did not know the question, however, let me comment briefly. So responsible decisions in the energy sector and responsible actions require one time and way, discussion, debate with the aim of speaking big words, requires another time. This law shall be amended and completed by the Art. The 10th or amendment of this law to the maximum extent possible protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I will direct you to the fact that before I entered the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, this ministry, including making decisions, including potential changes and additions to the law, was under the authority of the people sitting behind you. I ask you to be informed why they are not in the best way possible, as you say, protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia, but I had to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127742	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127743	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree that there is no need to spread big words and big promises here, it is necessary to work to protect the energy sector, but we have had great promises. Here it is, the front page ahead of the elections "I will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak", Andrej Plenkovic, the current prime minister. It's not the only Christmas promise of buying out MOL's shares, a promise played by the Prime Minister. You have, then, agreed to the INE business plan by letting the Sisak refinery go into Petrokemi, and you have released MOL and will now allow JANAF to reroute this mammalian oil to others means this other centre where it will be processed. This is your plan, and this is all part of the Plenković – Orban deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127744	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127745	Dear Representative Grmoja thank you for your comment, i.e. the replica, so the goal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a successful vertical integrated INA. INA with all segments of its business and in this context one of the most important future events is the modernisation of the refinery in Rijeka. As far as the transformation of the refinery in Sisak is concerned, it is not the decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia but rather the decision of the company's administration and in this context transformed business, the modernisation of the operations of the refinery in Rijeka are in the interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127746	Comrade Panenić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127747	Thank you very much, respected ministers in your presentation. You have stated that we are not losing our right to ransom because it is contained in articles of the Intermediate Treaty. What I would just like to remind you is that exactly the issue of an interdepartmentary contract is actually a court case that we are conducting where we dispute exactly what we believe and what we are proving to be the corrupt actions of former Prime Minister Sanader signed on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. If you base your first purchase right on this, in fact, you're legitimizing Sanader, you're legitimizing and its annex, we've come to the end of the trial, if the Republic of Croatia feels that it's not damaged, if you think that this is the basis for a follow-up, and for this law, then we've passed the law into the area of corruption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127748	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127749	Thank you very much, MP Panenic, for your replica, so neither I nor anyone at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, nor anyone in the Government of the Republic of Croatia has any intention of ever amnesting any corrupt action or corrupt moment. Since you were the minister who was in charge of this area, then you will probably have information that the first Intermediate Treaty of 2003 contains, in itself, the right to buy first, and secondly, and probably anyone who ever existed. That's enough to answer your line that, as you can see, doesn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127750	Here you go, pal Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127751	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, what doesn't make sense, and what you've been telling us all morning, what we've been listening to here is that we've come one time in two years from that we're going to return INA to Croatian hands to that we have absolutely no control over INO anymore and when the Sisak refinery closes, we can't do anything about it. The government, HDZ can't do anything about it, it's an autonomous decision by INE or INE administration. What I want to ask you or then you lied to the Croatian people and our citizens when you said that you would take matters into your own hands and that you would not close the INA, that we would not, in Sisak, let the Hungarians do what they wanted or don't tell the truth now. You have to make up your mind. So when you lied, today when you say the government will be able to influence or when you said the government will buy INU and take all things into its own hands, you're not exactly in any continuity and you don't have what to say There's a thread that connects what you are [[Intruder: Thank you.]] speak now and then. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127752	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127753	Dear Representative Maras, thank you for your replica, I would ask that we return to the scale of the matter, and the measure is that amendments to the Privatisation Act INE are amended in Article 10 which does not comply with the European acquis and that new Articles 10 and 10a are amended. in the best possible way to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. So I didn't lie then or now. I will remind you of the fact that despite the original Law on Privatisation of INE written and adopted in 2002, repeated in 2002 at this time, the Republic of Croatia has 44.8% of the shares of INE and while I am in the position of Minister and while this government, at the place of government, can only grow that amount or share of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127754	Comrade Križanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127755	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, we all know that we had to pass the law not only because of the harmonisation with the EU Directive, but also because of the judicial process that was launched against the Republic of Croatia. The current INE ownership ratio is 44% of the RH, 49.1% of MOL remained small shareholders. It is good that this article has been amended, Article 10 prescribed that the obligation to the legal and natural person who intends to buy, obtains a pot 25% of the shares must first inform the Minister of Energy, later the Government makes a decision on the purchase. I'm only interested in the situation that if there are 1 to 2% of the shares already purchased under the grain, what kind of protection mechanisms do we have to protect the interest, the interest of INE, and are we as a state willing to answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127756	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127757	Thank you very much, Mr. Križanić, for your replica and question. Therefore, no purchase under the grain and in the event that it occurred or did not occur, it cannot be reflected on the rights of the two partners in the INI. Therefore, INOME management rights are regulated by an inter-participatory contract, i.e. its changes and additions from 2009 and these rights are consummated by the Republic of Croatia. Any additional acquisition of INE shares is precisely you for the amended and updated Article 10th of this Act or Article 10a. must be followed by a series of legal moments to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Croatia may react.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127758	Comrade Vlaović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127759	Thank you, distinguished ministers with co-workers, the current way and management of INO devices to damage the Republic of Croatia, and also the crime under trial, and it is crucial that we protect our national interests, to return INA to Croatian hands. That's what the Prime Minister promised, he said it takes him a year, it's been a lot more. The question is whether you are working on it, if you have prepared a report to the government, how it will be implemented, that is what the Croatian public wants to hear, because it is enough to hear the news and confirm that I am right. There is no production in INA in the strategic development documents of MOL by 2030 in Croatia. These documents further reduce the number of employees. I'll remind you, INA used to have about 36,000 employees, about 4,000 employees in that COR business today. It's about 500 new layoffs and that's it. people with a high level of expertise. Will you prevent it and prepare for the return of INA to Croatian property? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127760	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127761	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaović, for your replica. So, the answer is that, the Republic of Croatia is working to buy the share of Hungarian MOL in INA, that takes time. Yes, we also bear the political responsibility of this process as a government. As far as strategic plans are concerned by 2030, I am not sure that in one single document there will be no exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of 2030, i.e.... I'm not sure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If there is such a document, I ask you, on behalf of this debate, to give it to me anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127762	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127763	Thank you. Dear Ministers, your presentation on the past and by calling for the EU and the European acquis, I think the increase in the number of Eurosceptics in Croatia, which is actually bad, because this opens the door to different pulsisms and different, destroyers, the liberal democracy of the market mechanism that should exist in Croatia. Your exposure was actually a lot about the past. And what we should look at is actually the future of the INA. First of all, the production of COX and the processing of oil processing is about 10 billion pounds a year. What if we look at it that way, we call it another economic branch, after the processing industry. I don't see here, therefore, in the amendments to the law, I don't see any possibility of harmonising different goals, so, one national Croatian, INA plus GDP what I mentioned, and MOL So for a second and a MOL, it only looks at the INA as a trading network. [[The Intruder President: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127764	A colleague... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127765	Thank you very much, Mr. Highash Doncic, for your rep. So, yes, my exposure was, in part, focused on the presentation of all aspects, i.e. the circumstances, which led to the first Privatisation Act, i.e. its adoption in the Croatian Parliament, later in the privatisation phases and finally described the reasons, even at the end of the legal steps, which led to these amendments and the addition of the Privatisation Act. As far as INA's compatibility is concerned, with other segments of MOL's business. Therefore, this compatibility of the INA, i.e., the future of INA, can be the subject of some other discussions. So, at this point and here, I have come before the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to clarify you, in fact, the amendments and additions to the Law on Privatisation of INA. Not INA's business plan, for the people's year, 2, 3 or 5. I believe you understand me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127766	Here you go, colleague Glasnović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127767	Dear Ministers, INA has been run by all the years and INA oil gas since nuns were founded, whether INA had any directors, where you go, mining engineers. What is with the Commission in 2010 which has not found any irregularities from these disastrous decisions. It's a vote in this House to sell INA with 81 votes from the incompetent Racan government. What about the oil fields in Syria? Croatian diplomacy has recognised the rebels, the brain must stand, and they have sold these oil fields, according to my knowledge that $23n billion has been sold to MOL with 505 million. What about those oil fields? What about the oil fields in Iraq? Whether to launch an investigation into the thieving, because that was, the INA was and the rest of the cave thieves to this day, it has no director. That's where they change directors, who... changes governments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And none of it, just a mere spike, no one's answered. What about... Cacic, Dragicevic and Mr Linic who participated in the property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A disaster decision, will anyone be responsible for all this?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127768	Thank you, answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127769	Dear Representative Glasnović, thank you for your replica, if you have concrete knowledge or evidence of any of the above mentioned persons and its participation in corrupt activities, I am sure you know the address at which you can present it. As for the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, I don't know how much and how we can help you. But, as far as I can personally, we can discuss this after we discuss it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127770	I'm asking you to pick up some paper after all. Let's move on, colleague Dobrović, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127771	Thank you very much. The Honorable Ministers and Associates. So during these replicas you made it clear that the government was still standing at the stand and decided to buy MOL's stake in INA. As a reason for the adoption of this law, you mentioned, you listed compliance with the EU as a legal asset. However, you certainly took care of Croatian interests as well. So, of course I believe, I want to believe like all citizens. Can you briefly explain how the adoption of this law will make it possible to facilitate, therefore, the completion of the government's mission two years ago, therefore, Christmas Eve, on the purchase of MOL's shares of INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127772	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127773	Dear Representative Dobrović, first of all, thank you for your replica. Therefore, the amendments, i.e. amendments and additions to the Privatisation Act INA, have nothing to do with the process run parallel to that. And I'm glad you actually asked that question. So this is where we're talking about art. The 10th law adopted in 2002, which is as you probably know, is not in line with the acquis of the EU, the family of the countries to which we belong and in this context the amendments to that article. 10. bear, above all, compliance with the EU acquis, as I said, the protection of the Republic of Croatia, and the budget of the Republic of Croatia from the financial penalty following a certain period after the Republic of Croatia lost the claim and, with the maximum protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia under the existing shareholder contract. So, no, once again it has nothing to do with the ransom process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127774	Comrade Mrsic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127775	Thank you, well-respected ministers, oil is energy and food for machines such as food energy for people and without food and energy there is no life, and obviously without oil there is no state development. HDZ said in its pre-election campaign that it would not close the Sisak Refinery, Minister Goran Maric said that if the Sisak Refinery closed, the prime minister was talking about buying shares of INA, but today you come with a law that is really only one sheet that you simply hide behind compliance with the EU, without saying anything about what the government intends with the INA, whether the government intends to buy shares of INA and what it means for the Republic to have its position in energy, economic, geopolitical or overall development strategy, which means for Croatian people What it means for the Croatian economy, will you [[Intruder: Thank you]] Buy INA or not? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127776	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127777	Your Honor, Mr. Gristle, thank you very much for your replica. So first of all, I will return to one of the answers that I have already given, therefore, amendments and additions to the INA Privatisation Act in no way should be brought into contact with, and cannot be brought into contact at the end, with the process of buying out the Hungarian part of the INA. As far as the energy future of the Republic of Croatia is concerned, it is impossible to observe the energy future of the Republic of Croatia without retrospect and a view of the energy past of the Republic of Croatia, including some of the moments and decisions made by the Government of which you were a member. I believe that by referring to that time, you will remember what and how it looked like. Thank you blindly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127778	The next replica of the esteemed representative of Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127779	Dear Mr. Vice President HS, Mr. Minister, as you yourself have said, today the subject of this point is only to amend an article of the INA Privatisation Act. But I think it's much more important. 4. which speaks of the privatisation process and the process shows that the government, the SDP government, is the proposed government, and on 26 March 2002. here HS, SDP and the coalition majority passed this law, intended to privatise the INA fully, and this best says and, therefore, Art. 4th century 2. "The Republic of Croatia retains ownership of 25 + 1 shares of INA which will be privatised under a special law after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into EU membership." So before that, it is arranged who will privatise everything, and then we will sell these 25% and surely it is not easy to put everything back and buy from MOL what he has acquired in the meantime. So I ask you if, do you at all Is that possible? [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127780	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127781	Dear Representative Felak, thank you first of all for your replica. So, indeed, by the 2002 INA Privatisation Act, the INA was obviously intended for the fate that all the items of this law and ultimately describe, and that is the full privatisation of this oil company. I can only express the satisfaction that it did not occur and that the Republic of Croatia currently owns 44.8% of INA shares. Our intentions are going in the opposite direction, and as I have already stated, they are going towards the purchase of the Hungarian stake in INA, the time will show whether we will succeed in that intention, I want to say it out loud, but we do not give up on that intention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127782	Thank you very much. The next replica of the esteemed Greek representative is here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127783	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Ministers, under normal circumstances, today's debate would be a measure of affairs. Unfortunately, however, circumstances are not normal. So, they haven't been normal for years and a key problem, and that's just before the MOST counterpart mentioned, Panenic, the key problem is actually a judicial procedure that is being conducted that management rights are completely committed to the Hungarians without them having mastered majority property in INA and this is a key problem that burdens the relationship with INA all these years. This process has not ended, what is the worst at this point is a threat to antiquity of this process, and you know that all arbitration procedures depend on it, and this amendment to the laws that we gave up precisely because of it, and behind these arbitration proceedings is billions of kunas of potential cost to the state. I want to warn you of that, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127784	Thank you, the answer of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127785	Dear Greek MP, thank you for your replica, indeed the INA issue, and finally, the presentation in today's amendments and the amendments to the law, has been covered by a whole series of complex issues. However, what I would like to emphasise here again unequivocally is to amend and supplement the Privatisation Act of the INA and Article respectively. Article 10, i.e. the addition of art. 10a. in no way can they influence or influence any of the processes you mentioned, nor can the arbitration process whose words we are still waiting for. What affects these laws or processes, I apologize, is the actions that happened in the past. No, I don't want to refer now to both the gas contract and the moments in which the government you were a member took part. So, the complexity of these, these procedures is something that we can and can talk about, but not about the Privatization Act of the INE. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127786	The next replica of the esteemed MP, Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127787	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Assembly, Honorable Minister Žorić, it is a law that is relatively simple on whether he is a fig leaf for something that would be discussed, but given your opening statement in which you have spoken about history and you have talked about what when you should not and in some way interfere with your answers, what our questions are about. On several occasions in response to the question you mentioned unequivocally that at this point Croatia has 44.8% INE and while you are the minister that you will be pushing for this percentage to increase, therefore you have absolutely expressed the position of the Minister of Resort on behalf of the entire government. What I'm interested in is what's going on with the refinery in the river and what we're going to buy one day, how long we're going to get, how long INA will be here, and what's going to be the subject of the ransom because everyone's good that the refineries in Sisak will be no more. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127788	Dear Representative, Honored Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127789	Dear MPs Mrak-Taritaš, I thank you first of all for your replica, so what we expect in line with the business plan INE for 2019 is the beginning of modernization of the river refinery through the construction of the Delayed Coke plant, which in itself is a refinery business in Rijeka at a higher level, for example, a modernized level that will then ensure the long-term competitiveness of this refinery. As for the thesis that you referred to about the Croatian stake in the INI and our intensities, I repeat once again that we are absolutely behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127790	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127791	Thank you, Minister, so in your opening statement, you have explained quite comprehensively why this law is being passed and there is no objection there, but here from previous replicas it was suggested, and it seems to me that you have not highlighted this important fact that in 2009, management rights have been transferred practically to Hungarian strategic partners and that despite the fact that they do not have a majority share of the shares have all the management rights. And this is actually the key to the problem and why we are asking today for this debate to expand a little bit, but so that not too much of this goes into the widest, concrete question and Prime Minister Plenkovic said on October 27th that Croatia has finished its legal path, I am now interested in seeing that no company can be put ahead of the state's interest, what the Croatian Government is doing at the moment, which is negotiating what may not be available to the public about the future of INE and whether Hungarians are still strategic partners or someone we want to get rid of in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127792	Thank you, the answer to the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127793	Dear Representative Žagar, first of all, allow me to thank you for your replica, so as long as the Intermediate Treaty is in force, as long as the ownership shares of the two owners in this particular case of the Republic of Croatia and the Hungarian MOL are existing entities that are partners. Regardless of the arbitration proceedings that exist, regardless of the fact that over the past years, we have sought protection of our own interests through these arbitration proceedings and the other parties, a partnership that is reflected in the Intermediary Treaty cannot be broken down without, without a significant change in the position. And in this context, the Republic of Croatia is in the interest of a vertically integrated INA with all segments of its business, but also a successful INA which for the Republic of Croatia as a very important shareholder who currently has as we repeatedly cited 44.8% generates the maximum possible profit, that is the interest of the Republic of Croatia. We keep that refinery business in Rijeka or its modernisation [[Intruder: Thank you.]] It can further improve our position. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127794	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, you have made it clear to us what the amendments to the Law on Privatisation of INA will actually be used by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and what mechanisms it wants to use to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. I believe that through the amendment of Article 10 and the clauses that speak of that if there is a problem in energy supply, as well as maintenance of infrastructure, you will use all that these amendments to the law and are directed and seek compensation for damages. We are witnessing that business in the INI as well as restructuring Sisak has real problems, there are also problems in the exploration of oil and gas and companies that are part of the INA group. We believe that this law will allow you to better and better control everything that has happened in the past and has not been fully defined and supported by the Hungarian MOL partner. We hope that INA It has a perspective and that through this law you will be able to [[Intruder: Thank you.]] To be more clearly controlled. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Djapic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127796	A respected representative, respected Minister Coric's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127797	Thank you very much, Mr Djakic, for your replica, so I would certainly confirm a part of your thesis and through this legal framework, or its amendments and additions, finally the Government of the Republic of Croatia protects the interest of the Republic of Croatia, as regards exploitation as an important segment in the functioning of the INE which has not experienced development in the last 10 years, on the contrary to what the Government of the Republic of Croatia has done to amend other legislation through the amendments and addition of the Law on the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons, but also through tenders opened in the area of the Pannonian Croatia, so it will be opened in the Dinarid area, we open up the possibility that INA as a company, in this way, will restore its reserves and finally increase the share of exploitation research in the Croatian market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127798	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Sincic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127799	Thank you, Chairman. Minister Coric, Doctor of Science, if I'm not mistaken, you're passing this law without even knowing the true state of INA, I spoke earlier about the situation in the refinery. We have claims from the Hungarian administration that the refinery is non-profitable, we have claims from workers, who work their whole lives in that refinery, that the refinery is profitable. So one of the main mechanisms, counterfeiting, recording, is that the oil that is taken from the home elections, of 900 books, is bought from the world's 2000 elections. So you haven't found out whether it's true or not. You're not accessing science, professionally, nor have you allowed anyone to examine it, but politically, you're going in that direction, whether it's true or not. So listen to your people, examine this information, send some institution. I proved today it's the only DORH. The state's attorney's office, on my behalf, is working on it, and before the truth is established, you can't go with these laws or any other law. Act as Croatian Minister, not Hungarian or... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127800	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127801	Dear Representative Sincic, my name is Tomislav Coric and I am Croatian Minister in the Croatian Government. As for your claims, then, the claims of political activists, who usually stand behind such information, I don't mind, that any such claim is backed up by data, to see any institution in the Republic of Croatia. So I am here in front of the Croatian Parliament, with these amendments and additions to the INA Privatisation Act, to reconciling the Croatian legal framework and this act with the EU acquis and protecting the maximum interest of the Republic of Croatia. I have no third motive for what I said and for this document that I have brought to the Croatian Parliament, which are your motives and motives for those behind such a thesis, you will probably answer the question yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127802	The next replica is the respected representative of Petar Skoric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127803	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President. Dear Ministers, here, from your presentation, it is quite clear that we should amend this article on the 10th and because of the European Commission's request to harmonise the acquis. It is clear that there is a MOL in all of this that wants to protect its strategic interests and improve its position. And it is also legitimate that Croatia protects its national interests. You said in your presentation that MOL gained slightly less than 2% of the stock purchase, from small shareholders, it seems to me of 49.08%, therefore, very few have left, that they have a majority package, and it is legitimately practical, that here, and we as a state are actively involved in this race and that we ensure that we have a majority package, so I'm interested, what exactly does the government do in buying shares and protecting Croatian interests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127804	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127805	Dear Representative Škorić, thank you for your replica and for your questions. So, you would disagree with one part of the thesis, which is that Hungarian MOL had its fingers in these amendments and additions to the law from the perspective of the European Commission, I assume you meant that. So I mean even on the contrary, but let's let time show which direction the processes are going to go in. As regards ownership stakes, therefore, the Republic of Croatia has 44.8 Hungarian MOL end of 2009 with 49.08 The government of the Republic of Croatia is behind its drive to buy the shares of INA from the Masarian MOL at one point with potential consultants in this process we entered into conversations that lasted longer than expected, the words of finesa, which as such should simply be crushed. However, regardless of how long this part of the job will last, the evaluation of the value followed and the final talks with the other party on the date, i.e., going out with the Croatian offer on the subject. What I apologize for is one more second. What is coming then, is actually the moment when the two sides will agree or not to agree on it. And that's the Croatian public needs to know.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127806	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127807	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. It's been almost an hour since the replicas of your opening exposure. I have not heard a single replica of your presentation, which would in any way reduce the value of this law, in terms of protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the INA, so I am now very specific to ask you whether it has been amended. 10th and new article. 10A The Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia is in a position to continue to make important decisions on the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia and on the position within the INA and on the supply of oil derivatives in the Republic of Croatia and whether the position of the Republic of Croatia has been preserved in this way, through this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127808	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127809	Dear Representative Bačić, I thank you for your replica, therefore, the answer very briefly, yes. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and through a new amended article. 10th and supplementary in Art. 10A shall ensure maximum protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia and in the context of potential ownership overruns and in the context of the protection of energy supply, i.e. energy infrastructure. That is exactly what the intensity of these changes and additions was, and now, this law, or its appearance, is no longer in collegiate with the EU acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127810	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127811	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister. Here's a clue to what Mr. Bacic is saying, so my political intensity is to protect the public from everyone and from every government and yours. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is clear and it is important to know that we need to be in harmony with that society where we want to be a full member, right? However, whether what leaves and raises doubt that Article 6. The LNG Act is also based on the same basis as Article 2 of the LNG Act. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and which is basically the construction of the current LNG. So will we, for 5, 6, 10 years when built in the same way, be approached under the pressure of Articles 49 and 63 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU in the case of the LNG Act?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127812	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127813	Representative Orepic, I thank you for your replica. So I don't see how article 6 is. The law on LNG in collegiate with articles of the EU accession treaty. Personally, as a minister behind the LNG-um Act, I guarantee that this law is written in the ultimate or maximum interest of the Republic of Croatia and protect in fact this project, which allows citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia at the latest when this terminal is built, to provide maximum energy security and gas supply regardless of the circumstances of the eastern or northern of our country. Therefore, as regards Article 10 and its amendments and additions, they were clearly ultimately the result of the fact that this Article 10 was unfortunately not in line with the EU acquis. At this point, neither my legal team nor I have the slightest impression that Article 6. LNG law is not right in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127814	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Sokola.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, yes, we've been listening for an hour, mostly opposition replicas, but I haven't heard another particular replica that the provision is controversial. It means that, in this law or existing law, it endangers national interests, however, here I can read the provision of Article 10a(4). If the Energy Minister finds that the INA administration's decision raises the security of energy supply in the Republic of Croatia, he may ask the court to review it, to determine a temporary measure, he may request compensation for damages, etc. So security mechanisms of protection of national interests exist and that is what is necessary here to say and those who say that they do not exist as they say themselves, it seems to me that the law has not read at all what unfortunately is not the first time, we have seen it quite often here. So protecting national interests, yes, it is within the law but in a way that we avoid a lawsuit against the EU court and potential financial sanctions for the EU and that is what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127816	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127817	Thank you very much, Mr. Sokol, for your replica. So I fully agree and fully agree with its contents. That is the idea, therefore, to adapt to the maximum protection and to avoid financial penalties for the Republic of Croatia and for the state budget. He has a problem with such motives of amending and supplementing the INA Privatisation Act, indeed then has a problem of much greater proportions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127818	The next replica is the respected representative Grodana Peric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127819	Dear Vice President, Your Honor. I think it should be pointed out once and for all that the law that was passed since 2002 and implemented in the part of 2003 in July when 25% + 1 share for 505 million dollars was sold, once again it should be pointed out that it was done then and that this law envisaged indeed the sale of INA which this government, since it managed to retain 4.8% of the ownership, indeed with this empowerment actually Article 10. where there is, in fact, an exclusive veto right to certain decisions of the administration of society where there is the right to control changes in ownership and also the right of first-ever total property, and that empowerment that is very important for this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127820	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127821	Thank you very much, dearly respected representative on your replica. So, indeed, just these amendments and the amendments to the law, I'm going to point out once again, we went right for the maximum protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia through Article 10, respectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127822	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127823	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've explained this beautifully, but I think it should be pointed out by now that in 2002, the specific law that will be adopted in this House of Higher Education and the new future is also said that at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU, the one who wants to sell one share, must make a special law that will be adopted in this House, simply for the sake of all these balalaiks being spoken here, however very interestingly, that no one here today mentions gas supply and that no one mentions Syria, the two key decisions that were made in 2012, 2013, no one mentions it alive. It also does not mention the decision by HANFA on the ban on INA stock trading from 10 months. In 2010, on the basis of which HANFA has initiated and the court dispute is actually a lawsuit against MOL on suspicion of the illegality of acquiring certain shares. It's very interesting that no one mentions it. And the second thing, in 2002 with the adoption of the Privatisation Act, was then passed the HEP Privatisation Act, which the HDZ government put out of force in 2010.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127824	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127825	Your Honor, Mr. Shucker, first of all, I thank you for your replica. Yes, indeed, in my presentation above all, I focused on, in fact, showing motives, reasons and circumstances of amending and supplementing these laws, amending and supplementing the INA Privatisation Act. I'll go back to the moment you pointed out yourself, which is actually the 2002 Privatisation Act. and his art. 4. which makes it very clear that the path that has been routed to privatising INA in the coming years. I'm going to repeat a sentence that I already said once, and I'm glad that didn't finally happen. The Republic of Croatia has 44.8% of the shares at the moment, and what we're going to do is actually, we're going to do everything possible to increase that share, not at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127826	Thank you very much. Now that we're done with 25 replicas, will the Committee's rapporteurs take the floor? No, I don't. Then I open the debate, so first on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists, the time will be shared by respected MPs Tomislav Panenić and colleague Dobrović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127827	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Minister, I'd be replicating myself, actually I have a chance now and through this speech to your rejuvenation, you must be aware that every annex by its signature becomes an integral part of someone's contract. Also, I have called on the stock market contract as it is, and I will add that you have called on the INA administration's position that the refinery in Sisak is not worth it, and that administration is making decisions based on that shareholder contract. Let's be more specific, then let's split it up, so let's say, we have that original stockholder contract that's what it is, we have the corrupt one, the one that's being prosecuted against former HDZ president and former Prime Minister Sanader, and then let's be more specific when we say something. So, if we're talking about a stockholder's contract, he's currently contained all those corrupt elements for which we pulled and deep, we should actually support our judiciary to complete this process and to prove to everyone what is, in fact, clear and visible and what shows the video, is that not so, Hernadi would already come to the Republic of Croatia, he would have brought out his defense, in this way only for years and he supports that those doubts in what is seen in the video are justified. Today, the ruling coalition's representatives here primarily held the view that this law protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia. This law certainly does not protect, changes to this law, changes, meaning, which are ongoing, certainly do not protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia and I must say here, the European Commission has turned its back under certain pressure from the Republic of Croatia. It was also clear in that letter that you stated from 2016, as we said, it is simply not possible, it is not acceptable for one Member State to find a government in which such a commission is treasonous, I will say this time, a betraying commission that forces us in this way to find its partner. Al would like to know what the interest is, what is the interest of a minister to support it? Are these some interests that are related to the interests of the great forces? Is that Russia's interest? Where are the interests of America? I've heard more about how dissatisfied they are with what's going on, unsatisfactory with this contract, let's have someone say it once more and publicly, in fact, who, whose interests here protect and who does who work for? It is certain that such changes are not only in the interest of the Croatian state, they are not in the interests of INA workers, they are not in the interest of the refinery in Sisak and it is not in line with what is here, the Prime Minister, the current prime minister, said that he will not allow the closure of the 2016 refinery, is not in line with what is said on Christmas Eve, we will buy INA and then go away, and this same prime minister goes to Mass and there is actually something that needs to defend what he said and what is not true. It's been two years, so if something isn't true, then it's become false. I'd be here by now, my colleague Sokol mentioned, no one was referring to the articles of this law, so I'd like to list a little. So, it says that those who want to gain more than 50% should actually inform the Minister of power and submit a long-term plan. I hope the ruling coalition when you pass this law that then the prime minister will submit a request to his minister on this very plan and say we are ready to buy the INA, let's go, is that it's a promise, right, the prime minister's promise. I hope so, as the possibility of having a legal basis is open now, maybe so far it's because it wasn't in accordance with the law, so it held back. You are talking about the need to submit one-year reports on the implementation of the long-term plan. We want reports from both MOL and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on how the INA works, so not those of the new acquirers, but also of the existing acquirers. Please state that the acquirer of shares that endangers the security, reliable, regular supply of energy, and the protection of the security of energy supply infrastructure, the Government of the Republic of Croatia may by decision seek the removal of deficiencies. What are the shortcomings that you've listed? Is that closing a refinery? Is this rerouting the oil flow from the Sisak refinery to go to Hungary? Is that the release of 120 people that are announced in research and development? Someone mentioned it here, we have a problem. Yeah, we have a problem, we're gonna have an even bigger problem if this policy continues, and no, we're, you're calling on non-democratic countries, for crimes, do you understand that we haven't even convicted Sanader yet, we don't have a verdict, we haven't come to Hernadia, but they're powerless, so we can do what we want. And for the first time, I think you're making too much effort to explain it, and you've actually offered yourself a solution just because you don't have the strength, you don't have the political determination, you don't have the courage to buy out the majority stake, and that's actually ending this story. Then we wouldn't need any law if that were the case, but instead you'll put two representatives in a scenario that won't, in the management of the INE, that won't have the right to vote, so now we have a fictitious one administration where executives run all the business under MOL's mentorship, and we're going to call them out which decision they're more important to make, and these two ficuses, which is why you put two, is it because of that as in that communist regime, they don't trust each other, so you put one of them to oversee the work of the administration, and the other one to oversee the work of the administration, and then whoever pays it, is INA going to pay or we'll pay again in that situation from the state budget to have two observers who won't be able to do anything there anymore. And what is most important will be taken by the minister of some kind of activity, will require a temporary ban from the Trade Court, first we don't want to tell you too badly about the judiciary now, but we see how long it takes, and what else is to ensure, that, in exchange, the court will require temporary measures. That's right, it's normal to ask for a certain stock, if we're going to put that stock on the INE property, or if we don't like it, we're going to end our company. This bill, according to my humble court, has too many shortcomings and shows only one intention and desire, which is to end this painful situation in which those who are fighting for the INU are no longer trusted in this government, this government wants to leave it to be called one day as we called Sanader and that, one day we will call Plenkovic, we will call Coric, but they will not be here as they are not now during this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127828	The esteemed representative Slaven Dobrović will continue.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127829	Thank you very much, I welcome dear colleagues, here I continue on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, and I welcome the representatives of the ministry to see that the minister has left the assembly. You'd start with me definitely, we don't see how the real reason or reason is not acceptable to an emergency procedure. So, the explanation that it is a matter of compliance with EU regulations and that it is an urgent thing can definitely not be a reason, a valid reason for us, because of course it is a matter of many sensitive matters and that this injury is therefore the European first rather old and that we have entered a very sensitive period, I personally traveled in, to a meeting with the Commissioner of the European Energy Commissioner, to ask for a certain time for Croatia to solve this problem properly. The government does not even quote an EU regulation on which, on the basis of which this legislative amendment is harmonised, is it only, whether it is only regulations that define or regulate the capital market issue, the movement of capital, but there are other important EU rules which, therefore, are covered by this strategic company, say the Gas Protection and Security Directive, whether this is something that we also need to take care of here, and which is why we do not see that we are concerned because, let's say, the gas is not mentioned at all in the law, and this might be interesting here because we need to know that INA is the main gas supplier, therefore, not only to citizens, the economy and our strategic company that produces mineral fertiliser, so it would be logical to refer to these issues. We also need to know that new directives are being prepared in the EU concerning important strategic and energy companies and that it would be good and necessary that we also used this time to see what these directives are making and also to make consistent changes. I will refer to the fact that we do not still have a national energy strategy, so it definitely includes what is under the authority of the main strategic energy company INE, so the issue of refineries, closures, flow issues, so now the reverse flow of JANAFA, which de facto allows the transport of raw Croatian oil to the river refinery, which, of course, has been removed and the last reason, that is to delay the closure of the Sisak refinery. So these are all important issues that I don't see being well solved, they're easily passed over, and here we are offered various provisions that prove the protection of national interests, so on and so forth. the planned adoption of a long-term business and management plan to be adopted by the Government. I don't think we know that what the main partners or INE have been like all these years, the investment and modernisation obligations of the refinery that have never occurred, so that all these provisions mean nothing at all. So all together we can say by reading this law that it remains quite unclear what benefits for the Republic of Croatia are brought and provided. So we don't have that picture, so the mere fulfillment of the compliance obligations so that the freedom of the capital market on such a sensitive area, which is therefore related to many other issues, is simply not good. We must be careful that this government hides the reasons for giving up the Croatian policies so far to preserve the refinery business in the river refinery from which only a high quality competition can be made on the rather large Pannonian oil market and when we look at what happened, when we see that MOL has taken over the INA market in Serbia, which is in direct contrast with the obligations it has made to buy shares. When we observe this capitulant silence, their announcement is the closure of the Sisak refinery, and this is likely to result in the closing of the story or obligation or desire, the mission MOL had by entering and taking over the INA, which is the complete removal of Croatian competition on the Pannonian oil market. And now this change in Croatian politics, whether it was agreed during last year's visit to Minister Coric and then Deputy Prime Minister Dalic in Hungary in January 2018, what all the meetings were then and whether there was also a meeting with the man for whom the warrant was called, we do not know, however, we have reason to worry anyway. MOST will also submit an amendment to try to shed light on this matter, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127830	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is the SDP on behalf of which the respected representative Davor Bernardic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127831	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry there's no minister, he ran away before the debate started. These amendments to the law go in a radical direction towards giving up the state's right to control the process in INA in this clear and clear manner. That process control is for now and now as much as there is. Law on privatisation of INA oil industry d.d. Article 10 contains provisions under which the Republic of Croatia retains specific rights. These are under 1st exclusive right of control of changes in ownership, under 2nd, the right of veto to certain INA decisions and under 3rd, the right of the first total or part of its assets at the estimated market value in the event of the liquidation process. The EU launched an infringement of EU law and made a decision to press charges against the EU court in July 2017. This Government, in fact, holds the main argument as to why it joined the amendment of the law. Following are several key emphasiss from a political point of view. First, the European Commission's request is already several years old with which several Croatian governments have had the opportunity to meet but have also had responsibility for the state. Including our SDP government. However, we delayed these changes with the strongest argument that the 2009 trial was conducted in Croatia when a suspicious change in the contract between Croatia or between the HDZ Government and MOL was handed over to the Hungarians over the INA, regardless of which the MOL did not master 50% + 1 share in the ownership sense. The point is that we did not blindly follow the instructions from the European Commission and, as this Government does, approach the current amendments to the law. And we now hold that until the judicial process is over, there is no need to change the law or open an opportunity to hand over the INA to the Hungarians. Secondly, we are concerned that the mentioned judicial procedure is being slow and ineffectively implemented to the extent that it may occur and become obsolete. This is absolutely inadmissible and scandalous, especially because of the fact that Croatia could, at the moment, face a complete loss of any kind, appear to be a success in ongoing arbitration related to INA. It is clear to all that this means the immediate loss of billions of kuna. In the gas business alone, more than six billion kunas are mentioned, are you aware of that? The Croatian government has shown a complete discrepancy in this process. Or maybe we're wrong? Is this move to amend the INA Act to create an environment where MOL would have been easier to master with the INA, and in return it was more cooperative in the agreements that follow regarding these aforementioned arbitrations, we do not know it at the moment. In this context, the question is why has the government kept silent for 2 years about the announcement of INA's takeover from Hungary? Why, meanwhile, is the denied tender for consultants in the process completely halted and why is no contract signed with the elected? It's also obvious that the idea failed. The intensity of these amendments, the law, the additional argument for such a conclusion, or increasingly, can be expected that the government will allow MOL full control of the INA and the reduction of the government's influence on the INA process, this law, in fact, will make it significantly easier and easier. Fifth, the government's drop in this process certainly shows a handlifting from the Sisak refinery. The above, with the highest level, by Minister Maric, who says the government has no influence at all, are also scandalous. The Republic of Croatia is still the owner of 40% of the INA, and not only that, it has a foothold in the law that you now want to change precisely to our damage, to the damage of the Republic of Croatia. Despite the spectral surrender of management rights to the Hungarians, the Republic of Croatia still has 3 members in the management of the company who can influence the decisions of these same administrations more or less, especially if the Croatian Government is behind them, and you are now proposing a proposal in the amendments to the Law on Delegation of 2 representatives of the Government who should monitor the work of the administration without any influence and voting rights, and in fact the possibility of the influence of the Republic of Croatia, our country, what we own, on the management of the INA, is scandalous and shameful. And today comes in this light of this bill, after two years, and not in a regular procedure, but in an emergency procedure. Why is he coming in for an emergency procedure? Because it may have been agreed by Plenkovic and Orban at a secret meeting. What else was agreed by Plenkovic and Orban at a secret meeting under the table? Did the Hungarians agree to take over the INA completely? Did they also arrange to close the Sisak refinery? Have they agreed that when the Hungarians take over the INA, that same INA leaves the Republic of Croatia? Answer us, was the subject of the talks also Hernadi, who was accused of giving bribes to the former HDZ president and HDZ government, Evey Sanader, who handed them management rights over to the INA? It is more than obvious that Plenkovic finishes the job the way Sanader started, and both have the same goal, create conditions for the Hungarians to fully take over the INA, which is for us a betrayal of national interests. Let us remember that two years ago, your Prime Minister, Andrej Plenkovic, publicly, announced that he would return the INA to Croatian hands. Now it's more than clear that again, like countless times so far, he's lied. As they lied in the pre-election campaign, Minister Maric and Mayor Zinic and other HDZs claimed they would not allow the closure of the Sisak refinery. Allow me one quote: "Whoever allows the closure of the refinery in Sisak and who contributes to such a development of the situation must be declared a national traitor," said HDZ Minister of State Property Maric in August 2016 for Z1 TV. What else did he say about Radio Banovina 2016? "We clearly and publicly promise, we will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak because of its importance for the economy and strengthening this region. We will stop dealing with politics rather than let the refinery close." As far as I can see, Minister Maric and Andrej Plenkovic are unfortunately still in Croatian politics. The real question is, in fact, today for Minister Maric, does Minister Maric today think that Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic is a national traitor? It would be good if she said it in public. Mr. Coric, you came here before the government, you came here to defend this law. It would be interesting, since the law is likely to be passed this week and because of it many workers will end up on the road, they will be fired from the Sisak refinery, to tell us if you may have recognized yourself in that statement by Maric? Do you feel like a national traitor, too? Mr. Bačić, welcome back to the hall, and I ask you as president of the HDZ Club who will vote for this law, did you recognize yourself in that statement by your colleague Maric? Do you feel the same as a national traitor? Mr. Shuker, how about all that? After all, you were Sanader's close associate, and I must ask you, did you recognize yourself in Mr. Maric's words? Do you feel the same as a national traitor? I'm asking all the HDZ gentlemen, have you recognized yourself in Mr. Maric's words? Do you feel like a national traitor? You who will support this law, or you may feel pride because hundreds of workers from the Sisak refinery will end up on the street, but it is all in line with the statements of the president of your government, who invites investors to the Republic of Croatia and says that here is a cheap workforce, it is all in line with your relationship with workers in the Croatian strategic industry, in shipbuilding, in Uljanik, in 3. Maya, that shows your relationship. Yeah, it's not funny, Mr. Shucker, it's not funny, you didn't think it was funny when you put money in the boxes of your party butchers. Also, now you pretend you don't know, that the stolen money is stuffed in the gardens of certain houses, that's what this is about. Where is Jandrokovic now, where is the president of parliament who deserves this on the agenda? Where's Jandrokovic? He's gone, he escaped from the hall, so anyone who comes to the INA sooner or later escapes, to ask him if he recognized himself in Mr. Maric's statements? Does he feel like a national traitor? It's a shame. This government will remain remembered only by affairs and by forcing workers into the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127832	Now, on behalf of the promoter, the word will be taken by the respected Minister Tomislav Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President HS. And allow me, they told me that the leader of the opposition has a exposure and that I must certainly react to it, so here, Mr Bernardiæ, if you are the leader of the opposition in HS, let me refer to some of your thesis in the exhibition, there were various. So I will not enter what the SDP governments have done since 200-2003, or 2011 or so, there is no need for that, the Croatian public knows that. Let me first focus my response to your exposure on the current situation in the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia and in fact the context in which we operate. So, it's not the Republic of Croatia, overnight, brought into a situation where most of the gas, oil, in our country, we don't import, or we don't produce ourselves. It's a process that lasts. Whether issuing a national interest which, as a thesis very, seems to me probably the most useful, by individuals in this House, can be reduced to the following facts, I ask you to answer it yourself, not to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, nor to me personally, because I actually know the answer. So, are we national traitors, if by building LNG on the island of Krk, we are able to never again, ever again, given the projections of our needs, Croatian residents, our citizens and branches are not brought into a situation that they have no gas supply. Is this a betrayal of national interest by the minister, or, above all, the Prime Minister? Is it a betrayal of national interests, a fact, while we've been in the past year, and in the next year, that we're going to run two of the biggest... to investigate the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What in the area of Panon, in 7 fields, i.e. in the area of dynamite and thus enable them to explore in the area of the Republic of Croatia, and hopefully and exploit hydrocarbons and ultimately, that in this way Republic, Mr. Beljak, this is not a topic from history, it is a topic from energy, through budgetary revenues, on the one hand, and also through... Part of these hydrocarbons does. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it treason of national interests or is it concern about her country's security, her energy security above all? Are we traitors because we want to buy INA? Are we traitors, because in the last two years we've done everything literally to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector. Or it is those who, throughout the process, fight us for the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector, are the ones who plant clips and symbiosis with various stakeholders, political groups, and international factors make everything difficult for us in these processes, so give this LNG terminal on the island of Krk never to be made. So that dissertation, supply routes as often used words in this House, and in our public space never happens. Whether it is us or the high treasons who are constantly doing everything against the energy security of the Republic of Croatia or whether it is an increase in the supply of oil and gas, who is a traitor. Tell me? I, who have passed the Law on Privatisation, Amendments and Supplements to the INA Privatisation Act, which protects the Croatian interests of the one part, and on the other hand, are doing so to avoid a lawsuit before the EU court, a financial penalty. If I hadn't brought it here today, if he wasn't here in front of you, in half a year we'd probably be talking about Coric, who had no idea what was going on in his vault, so we came into a situation where we paid for the penals. Mr Bernardiæ, that would happen, you as the protector of Croatian interests with the head of the cabbage in your hand, do not give us God.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127834	Thank you. Thank you very much. We've got a whole series of replicas, so we're going in a row, the first respected representative of Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127835	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister, when you mention LNG whether it's a betrayal of national interest or not, we'll see, when that project, which you're pushing persistently, past the will of the local community, so we're talking about a floating LNG terminal, whether it's a betrayal, we'll see later when that project, whether this project is going to make losses and whether you're knowingly going to lose, or if it's going to have some kind of economic justification. You said you didn't want to refer to the SDP governments since 2000-2003 and this last one, because that's what the citizens know, here I'm asking you to refer to the government of Ivo Sanader and I'm wondering if as a HDZ member you're proud to shoot with pride every week when we look at Robert Jezic's testimony and what the government did and how that HDZ government took care of INA and when you're proud, when you watch as one member of the HDZ Robert Jezic, weighs on your top leader at the time, and whether these are national interests, when the entire Croatian public is watching what you did with INA. My name is Sasa Djujic, Minister, so you know who you're going to answer to, and all I care about is whether it's a betrayal of national interests for you and what's in the bag was carrying millions of euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127836	Comrade Djujic, we heard, don't, you've exceeded your time in 15 seconds, we've heard Please don't violate the rules of procedure, please. [[/Intruder Djujic: Well, I did, I had to tell the minister my name and the minister exceeded the time, so here, and I used it a little bit to ask if he was proud of Dr. Ivo. Thank you very much.]] I'm asking that we all stick to the weather. Dear Minister Coric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127837	Dear Representative Djujic, first of all, thank you for your comment on the replica. I'm sorry, I don't remember the names, I don't remember my apology, but I've been informed of any last name. So, my presentation in the Croatian Assembly so far, and I've been here many times before you never once referred to the behavior of someone who was before me. And believe me, at the end of the day, some of your colleagues and colleagues can testify to a great deal that could be referred to in the segment of energy, waste management, the functioning of the water economy, environmental protection, not to mention much further. However, this is not my style I just today want to tell you that the amendments to the Law on Privatisation of INE are protection, maximum protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, not at all what Mr Bernardic so solemnly reads from paper without knowing the subject at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127838	The next replica is the respected representative Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127839	When you entered the hall, you said that they told you that you needed to react, who told you that you should react to the same ones who wrote the law or those who carried the money in bags or those who hid the stolen money in the garden. Did they tell you you needed to react? But if you had listened well, you would have to ask your colleague from the government and your minister what he said, and said who lets the refinery shut down in Sisak and who contributes to such a development of the situation must be declared a national traitor. So he spoke of you when he spoke of national traitors, and you are here alone without anyone's suggestion to this traitor yet added greats for your only known reason. And speaking of cabbage, it is better to promote domestic products than to rob Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127840	Dear Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127841	So, dear representative Bernardic, I've been told by passersby that you're the head of the opposition, I don't have to admit it myself, but I apologize today in the subject of amending and supplementing the INE Privatisation Act, not in this opposition. So, Mr. Maric's statement from the month I don't know which year 2016 was Mr. Maric's statement. No one in this country knows this state more than the ministers who are in charge of energy or the people who are ultimately in charge of the state of the energy sector better, believe me, so some representatives of your political options were there, as well as some representatives of the Most, as I am today. And Mr. Maric's statement made in that context then, at this point, does not seem relevant to me, as well as to anyone who has ever made such a statement in a political context, and you for you situations in a sector that you do not fully know. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127842	Thank you. The next replica is the respected representative of Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127843	Dear Mr. Minister, this menu has also been told by passersby that you do not defend Croatian interests, I do not think it is correct to insult anyone here in the Croatian Parliament when asking you a question, but to answer it specifically. When you can explain why LNG is floating good for Croatia, then it will not have to seek any conspiracy in this, but you will then answer with concrete answers why this is happening today. When you have a representative who tells you that we pay our own oil three times more expensive in their notes, etc., you avoid it, these were the sentences of the people on your side and don't ask that Mr. Ivo Sanader was prime minister, that he was also the president of your party so you can't wash yourself so easily and wonder what we really need to talk about this issue because later it will be and how expensive it will be to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127844	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127845	Dear Representative Stojić, therefore in no way do I want to enter the idea or at all, and question the reasons for the talks on important topics for the Republic of Croatia. Especially about floating LNG, especially not in the new law, so your party president is in the presentation here, after all, you have this exposure in writing, on several occasions the Prime Minister, and you have me charged with treason, high treason, you have it written. So, but let's refer to serious things, to serious topics, so floating LNG as you know it is in the spatial plan as the first phase of building LNG in the property plan of the Primorje-Gorski County since 2013 unless I'm wrong. Why is it floating and not the other one? Because several times less capacity and several times cheaper, someone should pay for it, I said on several occasions that the security of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia does not have a price and indeed because of that I stand behind these 100 million Euros that the government of the Republic of Croatia will set aside for that terminal. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127846	Thank you, Your Honor, Commissioner Bernardic has raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127847	Dear Vice-President of the Assembly, Article 238 is injured, so Minister Coric seems to have strayed for the debate he talks about floating LNG
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127848	Wait, wait, wait. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127849	It was injured in Article 238 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127850	In what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127851	Because he is not sticking to the topic under discussion, he is talking about LNG instead of talking about INI and on the other hand he is talking about guilty, meaning treason, the national betrayal was accused by his party colleague, his government counterpart, HDZ's Goran Maric, and therefore must address him for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127852	Comrade Bernardić, you have exceeded both time and complete, in fact I am giving you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127853	And high treason was added by him himself, why he added high treason instead of treason might have been recognized in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127854	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Anka Mrak-Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127855	Thank you very much, dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister Ćorić, each of us speaks in a certain way and the way he talks more about us than the one we talk about that you know very well. If we go in a way of insulting ourselves, if we start belittling ourselves, it speaks more of the one who says it than the one he refers to. I must admit that the first day of the Croatian Parliament as soon as it was a matter of high treason has also caused a certain reaction from the prime minister, so it would not be good for them to cause your reaction, especially if they do not suffer colleagues in these first rows, but the theme of LNG on how successful or unsuccessful it will be, and there you have gone into another story yourself. We in GLAS are absolutely the points that when you go into some kind of project, that this project must have its own time frame and its own financial framework. And I can only remind you, the decision when it was that the highway Zagreb, or Karlovac-Rijeka, was built as a half highway, proved to be a bad decision Think again about the LNG ship. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127856	Thank you very much. The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127857	Dear colleague Mrak Taritash, first of all, thank you for your replica, and indeed, I will not look back at LNG, I am sure there will be more opportunities to discuss this subject, however, thank you for this first educational part. My colleagues and colleagues, both in the first and last lines, are absolutely in no danger. You know that, at least until now, the kind of debate I'm having with you, the distinguished members, MPs and MPs of HS is not like that, nor will they ever be like that. However, let that debate really on your part have some level, I'm sure you agree with that because you always hold that level, so this is not a debate between you and me, I'm just responding to a really positive and from my perspective, I believe, well-intentioned criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127858	I would remind everyone that we are discussing amending and supplementing the Law on the privatisation of the INA INDUSTRY OF NAFTE d.d., this is the topic of today's debate, so here you are, next to it, please stick to the subject, all of you. The next replica of the esteemed representative of Kresha Beljak, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127859	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear Ministers, they also told me that you don't know anything about history, and you don't know about geography, because if you knew what geostrategic relations are about oil and hydrocarbons in the world and what wars are under quotes and without quotes in the world in the last 100 years of water for oil. The Republic of Croatia belongs to the order of those countries which were very close to the limit of dignity and independence of import oil in 1990. You know very well that 75% of oil and gas needs are met from domestic sources. That's where you said you called for a hydrocarbon research tender in the Republic of Croatia. Who? You're doing what Shah Reza Pahlavi did in Iran in the '70s or '60s, is that what you're doing? Do what they try to make world powers or do in Libya [[Intruder: Thank you]] Venezuela, Syria [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] Mr. Coric, don't laugh. [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] You're in on it. [[Intruder: Answer...]] Thank you, colleague Reiner. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127860	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127861	Dear Representative Beljak, thank you for your replica. So the competition for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons is open to the general public, therefore, to all those coming from the oil sector, the international, of course, right. Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127862	Comrade Beljak, let's not talk from the bench, there are forms in this House, there are forms, right, that we all have to stick to... And politeness, please. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127863	... The Republic of Croatia is a country of the world, a modern world, believe me, I know that you can't imagine that in view of some of your views, however, it is true. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] And in the context of these tenders, every entity that gets the possibility of exploiting or exploring the exploitation of hydrocarbons, that find, that's how much it shares with the Republic of Croatia and that's in the interest of Mr. Beljak. Inform yourself, therefore, on the subject, and if you in your ideas of the energy sector or anything else have different or different ideas I'm asking you to make them public. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127864	The next is a replica of the esteemed representative, Željko Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127865	Thank you, dear Vice President. Minister, you're talking about exploring the possibility of hydrocarbon exploitation in the Republic of Croatia, I ask you, which Croatian company will investigate, which Croatian company will exploit, which Croatian refinery will process? Or will it process everything and work and explore and exploit foreign companies? We're looking for an increase in charges for exploitation here from 10 to 12%, Hungary is over 20, and we know that at this point MOL is exploiting the Republic of Croatia. You didn't even want to increase that 2%, and they have to pay twice as much in Hungary, so isn't that high treason, isn't that high treason? Energy, food, water, telecommunications, so these are strategic interests for the Republic of Croatia, we have nothing more than that. Now we've sold water, not just oil, gas, we've sold everything. If it's not a high treason of Croatian interests, then I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127866	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127867	Your Honor, you've forgotten your mind, it's the same strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, and I'll leave it to you to think. So, any kind of hydrocarbon exploitation, and I ask you to keep that in mind in further discussions because we are truly unserious, both in front of the public who is present and in front of the entire Croatian public, according to Croatian laws, final contracts concluded by the Research and Exploitation Agency with those who exploit, is ultimately shared between the Republic of Croatia and the potential investor. When you asked who had the opportunity to explore and exploit it in the Republic of Croatia, then the Croatian company has, which has been investigating and exploiting in the territory of the Republic of Croatia for many years. And I'm sure they'll be exploring and exploiting the Republic of Croatia for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127868	We will now welcome the students and students of the Valpovo High School who are watching us with... galleries and continue with replicas, respected representative Ivica Misic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127869	Thank you, Vice President. Dear ministers, looking at the betrayal of national interests, I would say that many of them have issued national interests over the past 20 years in this Croatian state. However, looking at what is happening today and how this government is solving, it is trying to solve this problem. I believe that this government is all mending what they've previously issued national interests and we know from Agrokor, so here's the Uljanik, where we're extracting 2.8 billion in total about 4.5 billion, I wonder how much we could and how much we could take from the INA shares, and this is what this government is facing, and it wants to buy out at the end of the INA, which gives one possibility, at least hope, even though INA is a company, we all know it's on the market. That'd be good. So he's doing one job code, the one everyone missed. You know who first sold it to INA and why and how it kept going. I personally think this government is trying to put this country on its feet in one right direction. And if someone doesn't see it, then I don't think I know what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127870	Thank you. The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127871	Dear Representative Micic, I thank you for your replica and, in fact, the support you put out through that replica. So indeed, regardless of the problems we face, regardless of the billions of kunas we give to close the holes that once occurred before us. The government of Mr Plenkovic will continue to do everything to protect national interests. And in the context of today's topic, so to amend and supplement the Law on Privatisation of INA, as well as all other topics. Be assured that it will be today, and as long as this government is, it has responsibility for managing the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127872	The next replica is the respected representative Josko Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127873	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. In your presentation, you said that all those who frame the government's clips are national traitors. Who exactly were you thinking about? Have you thought about environmental organizations having problems with certain government moves? Either domestic or foreign companies looking for a fair match on the Croatian market. You may have been referring to a Croatian opposition questioning certain government moves because it believes they are not in the best interest of this country. Who you really thought of because you know, this people no longer trust HDZ ministers and government. So remember, the HDZ prime minister also ended up in court because of the INA and has a verdict and the current prime minister, also the HDZ leader promised that the INA would be bought and returned to Croatian property. That hasn't happened yet. So how can we not question, how can we have no doubt that HDZ is working in the best interests of our citizens? Is that why we're national traitors? Who were you thinking of?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127874	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127875	Dear fellow MP Klisovic, I thank you for your replica. So in my answer, I first referred to your party president's thesis. What a strong word national betrayal is. I'm sure you as an intellectual can make a good judgment when you think about it. Whether the Croatian Parliament is a place where 20 times a day on any subject and weighs such a term should be used, it is a question to which I am giving you all an answer. Is this law, and I am sure given your European experience, changes and additions to this law, whether they represent a death certificate or a national betrayal? Please answer yourself, you don't have to answer to me. And whether this law finally protects or harshly violates Croatian interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127876	Thank you. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127877	Mr. Minister, in determining your representatives who will represent this Law in the House, the Government has appointed you and your co-workers from the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, not Mr. Maric. And that is why you are now, you will have to carry the burden of what Mr. Maric said and don't complain about it, you can always call the Prime Minister and ask him to send a letter to the Parliament and have Minister Maric decide to come answer our questions either today, whenever we discuss amendments or in the second reading of the law because we will submit a few hundred of them, just for that. So Mr. Maric said very clearly, never if we win power we will not allow the refinery to be shut down in Sisak, we publicly promise otherwise we will stop dealing with politics. The second sentence of those who decide and who contributes to such a development of the situation to close the Sisak refinery must be declared a national traitor. Can you say in reply to the replica what you think of these two statements by Minister Goran Maric. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127878	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127879	Dear Representative Bauk, I thank you first of all for your replica. So let me not comment on my colleague Minister Maric's statements, and those statements were made in 2016 as far as I am not mistaken from the political context of today. And I'm going to refer one more thing. So the situation in the energy sector and its perspectives are generally known to those who operate in the energy sector. Allow me, regardless of the fact that I am an economist in the last year and 6, 7 months, to see what the situation is and what the perspectives of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia are, and also in the context of the refinery business in the Sisak area, or the Rijeka area. And once again, the government of Mr Plenkovic is doing everything possible to protect, above all, the vertical integration of production in INA and our national interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127880	The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127881	Thank you. Dear Minister, here's how big words are used in every debate. What in our society should be more present to be great works instead of great words. INA is primarily one company, and INA is a large company. According to FINA's data, INA paid as the mixed company's top tax in the Republic of Croatia, 815 million 954 thousand. Of all the companies, INA has the highest net salary per employee of 7450 kuna and INA, what bothers me had the lowest number of employees on average of all these companies. It's interesting that, of course, in state property you have the most employees, in private even more than in these mixed companies such as INA, Podravka and HT. But what I'm asking you now, this law is just one of the tools, unfortunately we're forced on it, but I'm asking you again what the government of the Republic of Croatia is going to do to find a common language with a strategic partner or decide to finally say they're no longer our strategic partner we're going to dull the INU let's do something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127882	The reply of the respected Minister Coric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127883	Dear Representative Sagar, I thank you for the replica, so I think at some point in today's debate, I've already stated it, and I'll repeat it. As long as any of the strategic partners in INI owns 25% plus 1 of the INE stock, an inter-partisan agreement that defines the strategic partnership is in force and it is about strategic partners. The moment one of the entities, and our wish is for it to be the Hungarian MOL in INI to have less than 25% of the ownership, which would mean that the Republic of Croatia bought the shares of INE from the Hungarian MOL at that point we can talk about a potential other strategic partner. By the time the Intermediate Treaty is in force, Hungary's MOL is a strategic partner in the INI. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127884	I would like to thank Mr. Minister, the next replica of the esteemed colleague, Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127885	Thank you very much, you see fellow respected Minister Ćorić, there are all sorts of things here, nothing is said about the fresh stuff, what about Syria, 2010, 2011, Syria brought $75 million a month clean, this hajam blog 50 60 km away is a well and a draw from the strongest Canadian oil company, did Canada do what Croatia did? Or do you think that the equivalent is when for 25% of the ownership of 7 members you get 2 members of the administration and then you explicate in the state in this share agreement is that one member of the board will be in charge of the finances, how much do you get with it? And the other thing in that stock deal says that no decision over 80 million kuna can be made without the vote of a strategic partner, it stands in the 2003 share agreement. But apparently some people don't want to read, they don't want to talk about themselves. And we'll talk about the gas market later. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127886	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Suker, Minister Coric's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127887	Thank you very much, counsel Shuker, for your replica. Questions or problems that you've only actually discovered that cover and actually affect the complexity of INE's issues in the last 10 years are just some of those that might open up as you yourself have said. Unfortunately, Croatia has not made moves similar to that of Canada during the past 6.7 years, especially during the period in which it was intended to react to Syria, it has not made moves similar to that of Canada, as you have stated, but it is something to live with now, which requires maximum learning and doing everything to make sure that such things do not happen in the future, that is all I can say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127888	I would like to thank the Honorable Minister for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127889	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, Minister Ćorić, here is my colleague Bernardic, if I have written correctly, he said that the state is losing control of the process in the INI and he considers it a national issue. Now I'm interested in one thing, so today we have the Privatisation Act INE Article 4 which states that all shares will be privatised with Croatia's entry into the EU. So if it were SDP, there would be no control of the processes by the government, nothing, nothing, everything would be privatized and the private owner could absolutely do anything he wanted. So given the logic of my colleague Bernardic, who calls others to the national traitors, I wonder what you think is Ivica Racan, the traitor who was then the most responsible for passing this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127890	Thank you, Your Honor, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127891	Thank you very much, Mr. Sokol, as I said, I hold that even the concerns about national traitors are not the topics that are appropriate in the Croatian Assembly, I would only have found them, given Mr. Bernardić's exposure, that he is not familiar with the original therefore applicable Law on Privatisation of the INA, as well as with the amendments and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127892	I would like to thank you for your response to the Honored Minister, and let us move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Sokol, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, we have heard a lot of speculation today in this debate about who drinks coffee with, who eats lunch with, who deals with it, etc., but we have at least heard about the law itself. In fact, what we heard about the law shows that those who spoke about him did not actually read it at all. So, before us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INE Industry of Oil d.d. with the final bill, so it's about the law, not the shareholder contract, not the statute and all the other things some of the opposition were talking about here today. And that's what the first Croatian public needs to know, to know this law, this law is not the point nor can it regulate things that are regulated by a share agreement, so it's a completely different topic and shows complete deep ignorance of the measure itself, as the minister here said. Therefore, in order to protect the interest and security of the Republic of Croatia, Article 10 of the Law, the existing law contains provisions under which the Republic of Croatia retains certain specific rights which are viewed primarily in the exclusive right of control over changes in ownership and law, veto law to company management decisions, certain decisions of the administration of the company and the right to first purchase in certain situations. Given that the above provisions are not in line with the acquis, the European Commission has delivered a reasoned opinion, meaning the basis of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU and initiated proceedings before the EU Court of Justice for breach of Union law. So what's important here is to point out that this process is a serious thing, it's not something that can be politically played with, to toss the flossulas about servitude and so on, but it's something that if it comes to an end it can because of the costs of the process, and also because of the consequences of possible financial sanctions, it causes serious consequences for the Republic of Croatia. That some, like, colleagues Bernardic, who are just leaving the hall don't understand it or don't care, it's just their problem but that's what the Croatian public needs to know. Therefore, in the analysis of the changes themselves and the additions related to the art. The 10th law would rely on each other, and that's an art. 4. So it's an art. The 4th law, as it was adopted in 2002 at the time of the SDP and among other HSS governments. It stipulates that privatisation of INA will be carried out, with a transfer without compensation of 7% of shares to Croatian defenders and members of their families. ... 7% of the shares of employees and former employees of companies, which make INA Group under special benefits to be determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A maximum of 25% plus one share was sold to a strategic investor, at least 15% of the shares sold in the public offering process in accordance with the regulations governing the issuance of securities, and by selling or replacing other parts of the shares in accordance with the market opportunities of the strategic investor or the capital market based on the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision. The Republic of Croatia retains ownership of over 25% plus one of the INA shares, which will be privatised under a special law, following the accession of the Republic of Croatia to EU membership. So, the government, then coalitions, headed by Ivica Racan and SDP, predicted that Croatia's entry into the EU, privatises the complete INA, and that nothing remains state-owned, and they are now saying that the issue of national interests is unless Croatia retains control of the processes in INA, as counterpart Bernardic said. I think that's where it comes from, and you can see enough about who's serious and who's not. The second thing, which he would point out about that period, which is important for the context, is the 2003 shareholder contract signed by Racan's government as well. This was mentioned by fellow Shuker, and what is important then is that two key directors, which were the director of procurement and finance should be appointed by a minority shareholder, therefore, MOL. And also, by then, the minority shareholder, MOL was given the right, yes, the right veto on all decisions over 80 million kn. So, the first greater rights, greater than the shareholder, that is, was then a minority shareholder MOL had compared to the amount of shares given by the SDP government, and now some pretend that nothing existed, and that is the same thing that should certainly be pointed out here. As far as the bill itself is concerned, he would point out a few things, therefore, the EU's operating contract, is the highest legal act in the EU. The Republic of Croatia has become... that contract and we made commitments from it by entering the EU, so we took legal obligations from that treaty, so we can't talk about slogan or disagreement, it's the legal system that we belong to, the legal system that protects the EU court and which simply has to be respected. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP colleagues also voted in favour of joining the EU at the time, and it is not clear to me, as they are now pretending not to know exactly what they voted for and where they went in, so I don't really know anymore, whether they support EU SPD colleagues and respect European legal rules, or whether they think it should be how they are, we will sometimes respect them and sometimes do not. But I'm saying these are too serious things that can have big consequences for Croatia. So, Art. 63rd Contracts are prescribed to prohibit all restrictions on the movement of capital between Member States and between Member States and third countries. However, certain restrictions on this market freedom are possible, meaning certain restrictions which, in addition to the Member States' configurations, are situations where the State protects the public order or public security. So the state can limit the freedom of movement of capital, if it thus protects public order or public security, however, what is important, that such decisions, i.e., such restrictions must be clear arguments and must be necessary in order to achieve that objective that is to be achieved. So the legal mechanism, for the protection of national interests and the protection of national security, exists, is foreseen by European contracts, however, of course you and the mechanisms, as prescribed you must use, you cannot go against them. Now what does that mean in practice? This isn't the first time we have a so-called. Gold shares, an exclusive rule of law, means there are a number of EU court rulings, which are clear which clearly identify those things that countries are allowed to do and which things are not. The first example was Germany, meaning German and so on. The Volkswagen Company Act. So in the Volkswagen Company Act, the German state, or the state of Lower Saxony, kept 20% of the stake in ownership, but it is prescribed that no one can, even if they acquire more than 20% of the shares, have more than 20% of the voting rights. And the other thing that is important, that that law was then prescribed, that Germany, or Donja Saska, with that 20%, has an absolute veto on all key decisions in the Volkswagen company, means very much like in the case of the Republic of Croatia. And in that case, the EU court found that Germany... The law of the EU, and that its justifications, which it then presented before the court, simply does not stand and that it is simply not proportionate, i.e. it is not necessary for the objective to be achieved. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is another way, so there is another way, and this is the case of a commission against Belgium. In this case, Belgium retained veto rights to the decision of a privatised national energy company, related to strategic infrastructure. So in this case, the state had the right to veto a limited number of strategic decisions that could put the country's energy security at risk, but what matters is that the decision had to be formally reasoned and subject to judicial control. So the difference between Germany and the case of Belgium is that in the German case of Volkswagen, the state had absolute veto rights to certain decisions, while in the case of Belgium it could veto certain decisions, but it had to explain it and it was subject to judicial control and that was a key difference. So, the absolute right of veto not, because then the state could use discretion to decide what it wants, but reason and judicial control. Now let's look at the INA case, the INA case is very comparable to this situation. Therefore, the existing law prescribes exclusive rights of control of the Republic of Croatia, over changes in ownership, the right to veto certain decisions of society and the right to first purchase on certain cases. So these are the administrative situations of absolute veto law. And that's what's prescribed by the existing law and that's what's the problem. So, this absolute right of veto, without justification and judicial control, is what European law prohibits. E, and for this very reason, means the Law amends it, in a way that retains security mechanisms, retains the right to control the state, but with certain assumptions. Therefore, the proposed Law regulates the acquirer's obligation of more than 25% or 50% of voting shares to submit a long-term management and business plan under the law of the Republic of Croatia on the decision on consent to acquire those shares. In other words, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will give consent to the acquisition of shares above the threshold needed to take over and manage. So that's what the law says. Now, in certain situations, the government can shorten that agreement, but unlike the law so far, it cannot do so whenever it comes to mind, only when the energy security of the Republic of Croatia is threatened. So that's what the law prescribes. So, yes, the government can deny consent, but when necessary to protect national interests. That's exactly what the law specifically says. The right of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is also prescribed if the owner of one or more shares chooses two representatives to attend the meetings of the Society's Board without the right to vote. In the event that the Board of Companies votes a decision concerning energy security, sanctions are prescribed. So what, what's the procedure? So the state can seek compensation for damages if, by some decision of the INA Administration, energy security is compromised, it can initiate a process of withdrawing consent at any time, at which time the State is repurchasing and may request the court that any such decision taken by the Board which endangers energy security be reviewed by the court. And it may also ask the court to suspend the enforcement of such a decision by a provisional measure, until a final decision is made. So these are very concrete security mechanisms that the Republic of Croatia has. But these mechanisms aren't flat-rate, so they're not absolute, but they have to be reasoned, subject to judicial control. And that's, and that's the point of this law. So, this Law, therefore, harmonizes Croatian law with the right, with the freedom of movement of capital guaranteed by the European Union, but at the same time protects the national interests and energy security of the Republic of Croatia. And that's what matters. So when we talk about national interests, and I would end it, national interests don't protect themselves in a way that someone is drilling into their chests and loudly, and the louder they shout, we're fighters for national interests, we're sovereigns. So that's not how national interests are protected, that's how you can get maybe in the short term to a number of votes in the elections, but that, of course, we'll see more. However, the real way of protecting national interests is to establish safeguard mechanisms that will protect these interests, but within what is allowed within the European Union. And that's, and that's a rational policy. So, it's a rational policy to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of what actually happened to President Tudjman. If President Tudjman had gone through the wall in some situations, the question is, where would we all be today? So, once again, this Law is a quality, this Law protects national interests, but within those obligations that Croatia itself has made by entering the European Union. For all of these reasons, of course, HDZ will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127894	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleague Falcone. In the name of the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA, a respected colleague, Doctor Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127895	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected representatives of the ministry. We have before us amendments to the INA Privatisation Act, which represents a continuation, we could say the final act of treason policy of the HDZ and SDP Government. Their goal is always the same. Sell out valuable assets, put commissions in private pockets, take care of yourself and your family with material goods, and destroy any perspective of future generations. They think naive that they'll take care of themselves at least, but they have to understand that by destroying their country they're basically destroying themselves in the end, because money has never brought security to anyone before, but the next thing you know, Otetto, damn it, as boomerang returns to those who have succumbed to greed and dishonesty. This kind of curse, about such traps as the HDZ representatives, was also written by Miroslav Krleža in the book of Lord Glembajeva, but of course, the representatives of HDZ and Krleža, these are two different worlds. Privatisation robbery always takes place after one and the same fixed recipe, and it is not immediately, and not all stolen, but gradually over a longer period of time. At first, a small part of the company is given because we make a lot of money, and we don't lose anything, and then the company is brought into bad shape, partly because of political staffing, and partly on purpose. After the company is in bad shape, the privatisation company is the first to be hit by workers to reduce workers' rights, then pay, and eventually, the cancellations are immediately followed. In a fallen company, which is said to have no solution, a strategic partner is eventually sought, for which for some change, full ownership is given, and all under the pretext that such a solution is inevitable. In this case, specifically in the INA Privatisation Act, we cannot do anything because the privatisation of INA is sought by the European Union, the European Commission, although even the sparrows on the border know that this privatisation is actually the result of an agreement under the table, of course, Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic and Hungarian President Viktor Orban in Zagreb in early December. All that followed, from the withdrawal of the Hungarian lawsuit to the announcement of the suspension of the refinery, to this law, is only logical following that agreement. He had actually started before the appointment, one of the more important signs was the appointment of Minister Darka Horvat as Minister of Economy because the minister is very inclined to go hand in hand to the Hungarians for reasons which, of course, he knows very well. And with all the failures and sins of Andrej Plenkovic, from the Borg group in which the ruling structures have put into private pockets tens of millions of kunas to corrupt trades around the remont and purchase of aircraft, it seems that disowning the INA is nevertheless the biggest crime of this government that really goes into the ranks of the issue of national interests. Today, no one relevant is opposed to privatisation, entrepreneurship and the capitalist model of the economy, but every country has the right to publish what its strategic interests are, bearers of its sovereignty and development that cannot be traded with. Says the HDZ gentlemen, we're a free market, and come on, try to go to the U.S. where there's also a free market, so buy an American oil company, let's try it. Here, the Chinese will give you right now, I don't know, as much as you're asking, it's $500 billion, just say the amount and they'll cash it right out and buy it, can they? I can't. So how come it's a free market? Well, because the U.S. defends its national interests, and HDZ gentlemen keep betraying them, starting in 1992. When their president first Franjo Tudjman bought a villa on Pantovichak, to this day one of those same models, grabs what you can, destroys your country, matters to me today. And everything, not just to the INA, they're literally all that they've touched and destroyed, part of it because of incompetence, it's a minor sin, but a much greater sin that they've done knowingly because of greed, because of leaving the verse, because of their inability, because of their irresponsibility. What did all HDZ governments sell with the help of the SDP? They put water in the concessions, did they? They did. They destroyed national parks like Plitvice. Here come ideas, Minister Coric, who is not there, that one should drill the Adriatic and Velebit. They devastated Croatian forests, passed in law that since 2020. Selling agricultural land to foreigners, wanting to privatise highways, saying that they would privatise HEP, even mentioning that they would privatise railways, airport, airport, even the Ministry of Defence became a corrupt center outside the state's control, all the banks had left to foreigners, 99% of the banks today are owned by foreign banks, we destroyed shipyards, we gave them total nonsense so that they could be enriched, tycoons were recently made available and paid fees to their political protectors, and all to ultimately pay their debts again Croatian taxpayers. We gave Agrokor, neither guilty nor obliged, to the Russians, we gave the optical networks to the Germans, so today we have the slowest Internet in Europe, even slower than Kosovo, I don't know, and Georgia, we have a criminal network of base stations and ultimate madness because of so-called. It's a cell phone subscription. Now it's time, here's the final act, giving up the INA, the INA that used to be the concept of the world. She was practically a state in the state, stronger than any ministry, a budget holder. The MOL for INA was a dwarf, a dwarf, and today that dwarf takes on a giant in an imperialistic demeaning way. The fact that MOL is buying INA today, it's such a twist as to, say, buy generals motors, about like that, so you can imagine what kind of ability it takes, under quotes, to get someone as big a company into such a miserable state as our governments did. Two, two decades ago, in wartime, INA hired 17,000 people, today there are 4500, if there are, says there will be barely 2,000 of them soon. INA had its own oil and gas fields, it had enough reserves for decades, we had fields, we still have the Hejan field, we had white nights, and since 2000. We record a constant decline in surrender, processing and oil sales even though the market has grown. Governments have made a 100-fold promise to modernise the production and plant of infrastructure, they have never done anything about it. Why? Because they wouldn't do it. The number of INA gas stations far surpassed the full competition. We had twice as many gas stations as any other oil company. I need you to say that today is the other way around. INA annually built, you would not believe in Croatia two gas stations, one, two and competition 20. Today, Slovenia's Petrol is already an INA concept. And the problem is that foreigners get out of Croatia huge money, they draw billions, tens of billions, and that money could be left with us, we could be jobs, we could have energy independence. And we see, unfortunately, it is also a strange symptom that everyone here today has responded to the statements of the President of the European Parliament who wants us very well, he loves us and the people, Croatia and would vote for HDZ, he said publicly when he was in Croatia. And it's okay to react. But it should also react even more to the loss of INA because this loss is far more real than the primitive populism of an Italian politician. In its way, the loss of INA is equal to the loss of Croatian territory. And we can only imagine what the real concept of this privatisation is because the public from it is completely excluded, because this law is adopted by an emergency procedure without any need. What was agreed under the table, what restaurants were meeting again, what groups of borgs were formed again, how money was shared again and in whose pockets and in someone's division, one of these made a very nice profit. Starting with Eve Sanader, via Karamark to our diaphragm bureaucrat. What was promised in return for handing it over to the INA? It's a question that would be of public interest. How is it that it went from such extreme to extreme that in 2016 I don't know how to buy INA now suddenly complete sales. How is it possible for the business to sell the largest Croatian companies with all due respect to the assistant at the Faculty of Economics. Is he up to the job? Can he understand what INA's real references are and what the consequences of this law are? It's clear that this was about everything but transparent behavior, about everything but something we can call credible. Gentlemen, giving up on the INA will bring us further losses and a new drop in the number of employees, further emigration, enormous damage to the economy, will be suffered by construction firms, anti-corrosive companies, railways, JANAF and many other oil-restricted companies, practically disappears from oil mining. Croatia needs to seek renewable energy sources. But it must be clear to us that even in the ideal setting, renewable energy choices will not replace fossil fuels for the next 20 years, for the real next 40 years. Instead of heating ourselves with our own gas, we give to the Hungarians and in return we build an extremely invaluable LNG terminal whose profits will be paid by Croatian citizens through more expensive gas. Already now Croatia has the most expensive fuel in the region, far more expensive than the Hungarians do. They say in HDZ this law will defend our two INA representatives who will not have the right to vote. Well, gentlemen, let's understand the right to vote had even the tribunes in the Roman Republic 2500 years ago and you say that someone without the right to vote will be able to protect Croatian national interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127896	I'd like to thank my colleague, Bunjac. Next debate on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127897	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I'm going to sum up at 4 points, first question is whether or not we have to pass this law. The second question of what we want to achieve with this law, the third question of how we want to achieve it, and the fourth question of whether we can fix this law. But before I go in this order, just one brief introduction and maybe one picturesque question why is Easter every year on Sunday? Well, because Big Friday can't be Wednesday. There was a lot going on last year from various procedures, various government decisions, and also the worst decisions made by Prime Minister Sanader's government and he himself, which is why the decision to hand over management rights to a strategic partner, MOL, without any basis in their ownership structure. So they got along with three management members a complete decision-making opportunity by getting the chairman of the administration from their ranks a double right to vote. The reasons for the privatisation of INA at the time it took place in 2002, 2003, were explained by the need for money, there was a lack of money to pay the current commitments and started, the INA was 25%+1 shares sold for 505 million dollars. Later, Prime Minister Sanader, when INA got her hands on it, when MOL got the chance to express myself like that 48 or 7 or 8 per cent of the stake in the famous contract, leaves management rights, and you know what Prime Minister Sanader said in his defence, because one of the charges was that he did damage, he said he did not do a good thing, better that INU is run by capable Hungarian managers, rather than incompetent Croatian managers. That is what he literally said, and that is what the Court of Justice of Turudic, in its explanation of the verdict, stated to him as an explanation of the verdict that this is one of the reasons and why it is condemned. However, the statement says something else, it is not that the Republic of Croatia has no capable people, it is not that the Republic of Croatia has no educated and professional managers, it is only that politics has long, too long put its paws on all the institutions in this country. Sometimes it seems to me that sometimes it seems to me that it would be good to bring strangers into all institutions, preferably not even know Croatian, so it seems to me that the decisions made would be much better, much fairer and much more effective. Namely, there are also those in the Republic of Croatia who say that a strategic partner has not entered the INU so that today she will be in bankruptcy or collapse, there are such thoughts. So, the strategic partner entered the INU what's not good is that he's got a complete administration with a suspicious contract that we've already said a lot about. If we have to pass this law, then according to what the minister has explained, we must pass this law because the EU is asking us to do so because we have violated the so-called law. the freedom of movement of capital and that these are our provisions set out in Article 10. A law on privatisation disproportionate to the purpose we want to achieve. And as we can see in this bill of law that the government has passed today in the main focus assembly is placed on the security, reliability and regular supply of our citizens' energy. So if we look at it from this context, then really what was so far in Article 10 is not in line with that. However, there are still those who claim that this is not so, that we do not have to listen to the European Commission and that, that we can continue, that we can still keep this until it passes. But then we risk paying for certain penalties, penalties because in 2013, this law was in, the bill was finished he was prepared, only then the difference was an article, the law only wrote one, one, I think it was 2 articles, but the first article was article 10c. Delete. I'll talk about it later. The second question, what we want to achieve by this law, we want to reduce the chance, this damage, I'm sorry, we want to reduce the damage that has now been done. We can no longer use what was what we so far had as protection mechanisms that were in Article 10. We can't use them, then we put a slightly lighter variant and we want to mitigate, mitigate the damage. And how do we want to do that? I think that the provisions of this law will not simply be enough, all that is now provided for in Article 10 and Article 10a. It won't be enough. If we want INA to be an oil company that will fulfil the tasks ahead of it, and first and foremost here it is defined in the articles it is a safe, reliable and regular supply, then INA must function in such a way as to invest in it, to invest primarily in development and research, to invest in production, to invest in processing and ultimately invest in the trade and sale of oil and oil derivatives. The question is why are we bringing in, why are we now including in this law, why don't we stay on that 2013 proposal to simply delete this article, or to put the Privatisation Act INE out of effect. Why do we insist on introducing these provisions? We have the Energy Act, the Energy, Energy Sector Regulation Act and the Oil and Oil Market Act. We have these three laws, are they not enough to, to fully cover the matter, it is not clear to me to ask the minister to explain it, which is why we are now going to this additional, additional Article 10a, because forgive the expression, but it seems to me as if this one wants to get a little more out of the public and to say that we are still protecting interests, but this is, I think these interests are going to be a little bit successful with this way of protecting, more success or better protecting national interests can only be achieved by the Government of the Republic in negotiations with a strategic partner. And once again, no company can be above the interest of the Republic of Croatia, so eventually MOL's strategic partner is operating in the Republic of Croatia, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia can always pass laws that will protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Because we're not becoming, the government didn't come to MOL territory, but MOL came to the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The most important thing for us is for INA to be a company that earns profits, a company that is successful and that, a company that employs people and at this point in time, is the biggest observation on INA which is a small number of employees, has relatively high, high wages but is a small, small number of employees within the INA itself. Otherwise my personal position when we talk about companies of strategic interest, INA was first of strategic, it is now of particular interest as a mixed company, a company of strategic name, interest for example. Croatian forests, my personal position is not important for Croatian forests to earn profits, it is important that Croatian forests employ people and do the work for which they are in charge, which is for the care of the Croatian forests, the arrangement of the Croatian forests and the maintenance of these forests to be, to be this, that the whole area be sustainable and that all the industry that is related to the forests, the woodworking industry can live. As far as the law itself is concerned, I'll look back on a few points from this law. 1st century 5. "if the minister does not adopt an opinion within the deadlines set out in Article 3 and 4 of this article, it will be considered as a positive opinion." In this case, this is a very important article to what the ministry proposes because it says "the Minister in charge of energy, brings an opinion on the plan, and the plan is due to anyone who wants to acquire more than 50% of the shares," in this case, it is assumed to be MOL, and then says "if the minister does not bring a positive opinion within 30 days then it is issued." Why is positive, why is it not a negative opinion? If the minister doesn't bring it, then make it a negative opinion. We have examples, we have examples, here, the last was the Law on Croatian Citizenship where it was so commented. As far as art is concerned. 10a. St. 2., it is two representatives who participate in the work of the administration without the right to vote, I think that counterpart Panenic asked who would pay for their work there, said from the budget that they would go. In St. 2. says "if the management of INA votes a decision that seriously endangers the interests of art. On 10th century 7 of this law, the representatives of the Republic of Croatia as set out in Article 1 of this article will submit a proposal to the Minister of Energy for the Study of Such a Decision." Given the importance of what is being said here, as the Minister pointed out, I think that here instead of "the Minister for Energy" should be "Vlads of the Republic". In St. 3. I find a provision that is not very clear to me, which is why this provision, which is part of that provision, means, St. 3. ‘the proposal referred to in Article 2 of this Article shall be submitted to the representatives of the Republic of Croatia as referred to in Article 1 of this Article within 8 days of the date of the vote of the decision’, and there should be a point there, however, it shall continue ‘if they were present at the sitting or within 8 days of the knowledge of the decision if they are not’, so wait, and why, I think, if they have appointed them there to attend the session, let them go to meetings, if they are sick, there is technology today, there is a way in which the session can be monitored, I do not understand that part. I think there should be a "election of a decision", a point, and that's it. The Legislative Committee is, therefore, St. 6 is deleted and then we have St. 8, it is related to this proposal that the "Government of the Republic of Croatia" stands out again to say "if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not press charges under Article 4 of this article within 8 days, it will be considered that it is in agreement with the approved decision of the management of the company INA d.d."; see this deadline is very short, 8 days, the Minister responsible for energy, I do not know what all special cases may be, it may be the technical government, it may be said that the minister has resigned, and 8 days is the deadline or let it be changed that it is not compatible or that there is a mandatory "Government of the Republic", in that sense we will also submit amendments, so I hope that you will consider that you will see whether it makes sense. And finally to conclude, on the basis of this indication of these amendments, I will take a personal position and with my colleagues from the club I will consult, we are brought into this situation, so, it must be a shame, because if we can no longer protect and acquire ownership and decisions that are being made, and they are related to such an important company, then this law in that part would make sense, however, without strong intervention by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I don't think it will achieve the desired results, the government will be responsible and must, after all, be obvious because only the adoption of this law in order to calm the public, to say that we have protected national interests in this way, will not be enough, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127898	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Next debate on behalf of the HSS Representatives Club, dear colleague Kreso Beljak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127899	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President HS. My colleagues and fellow MPs, allow me to present, the respected minister, who has left, allow me to present the position of the Club of Assembly Representatives of the HSS and that the minister, I am sorry that he is not here, give a few lessons from history, but surely he will listen to it, his services and those who do the profiles. We are today discussing the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INA INDUSTRY OF NAFTE d.d., an emergency procedure, first, second, third, fourth, tenth, I don't know which read anymore, and INA is not the Croatian company as the minister says, this is not the Croatian company thanks to the privatisation robbery that lasted in the case of INA through several stages, and unfortunately all the governments that have participated since 1990 to this day. INA is not a Croatian company and when Plenkovic, Prime Minister Plenkovic says two years ago, that he will buy INA, that is the same code I say I will buy a house from Mira Bulja, only it is not for sale if Miro is not selling. So that's one stupid thing. You can't say we're gonna buy something that isn't yours. And why isn't it yours? It's the other pair of shoes now. It's not ours because of energy policy, and because of the energy war that's being fought all over the world with quotes and no quotes, I've already talked about it, so those countries that are going to obey the great forces, there's no war armed, and those that won't obey, there's Venezuela, there's Libya, there's Syria. By 1990, the Republic of Croatia had met almost 75% of its oil and gas demand by its own consumption, today it was around 20%, and 2016 was 20%, today it is no longer known. And the refineries were shut down or before the shut-down, there are no new studies, although today the minister of general my surprise announced a competition for the exploration of hydrocarbons in the region of the Republic of Croatia, the last more serious research was done in the North Adriatic and Moslavina and the Pannonian Plains in the 1980s, and imagine how far the technology itself has progressed in the last 30 years so that, unfortunately, in the normal sovereign states, Croatia has not begun to re-exploit both oil and gas from the fields that have already been shut down. So that fell to us, this dependence of energy in others fell from 75% to 25% and 20% of domestic production today with a further trend of decline. What do you do? Now the question is what to do. A very simple answer, go, draw a line and start over. This would be proof that Croatia is a sovereign state. At first, it means doing the same thing that was done on January 1, 1964. On that date, ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the ruling majority were founded a company called INA and by joining five oil companies, a refinery in Sisak and Rijeka, and two companies for retailing Interpetrol derivatives. And I'm sorry that there is no Mr. Glasnović to teach him a little history, let's say that's January 1st, '64, the company was called Croatiapetrol. Croatia is usually, that's '64. There was something about him that wasn't supposed to be talked about. What is more interesting for today's government of the Republic of Croatia, for Mr. Milatić, who has other topics instead of listening to something smart, to listen to the proposal coming from the opposition, for Mr. Minister who is not there, the founder of the INA is the Executive Council of the Socialist Republic of Croatia. The consignee does not make it, but he is a follower of the executive council today, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In 1964, the state in which we lived was not called Croatia but was called Yugoslavia. So lower, regional level, lower level founded the INA. Not even the state, but the republic. A lower level, it would be as if the county were to establish. So lower level. We today as an independent and sovereign state cannot do the same. I don't know why we can't. We have our drills, we have our potentials and we have our own knowledge. Yeah, there's been an enemy takeover, helped to internally, I won't say it wrong, so aided by domestic political and treason, there's no other simple word and there's got to start over. We want to ensure the energy sovereignty of any terminals. We have a home of gas and oil as much as we need, and we need to invest money in it and it will be the best money invested, make a new company called INA HDZ, let it be called INA Croatia, INA 2, either way, be called Andrej Plenković INA, but start if we are a sovereign state company that could form a republic in '64, so lower levels. This law, which represents harmonisation with the EU, can be put in a cat's tail. It is a law that will achieve nothing but further energy dependence of the Republic of Croatia. We're not like Germany with neither oil nor gas. I repeat the latest extensive research was done 30 years ago. Let's start in that sense, let this government leave something to our children and our grandchildren, though I hope that it will never happen again to HDZ in the future, that children and grandchildren will never again vote for a party that would eventually rob us or leave us again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127900	I thank my esteemed colleague, Beljak. Next debate on behalf of GLAS Club and HS respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127901	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Assistant Minister of Associates, colleagues and colleagues. When I see this assembly a little bit and I see who it is we have two colleagues from HDZ, so much for HDZ's interest in INA and what's going to be there because they're doing exactly what they want and how they want. Otherwise, the minister tends to be in the assembly when, or to represent his laws, which is not exactly the same. There's always a lower attitude, but I have a feeling he's made up his mind somehow. We have something to say, and they'll do it anyway, and they won't be the first or the last time. It is a key question for me, so the injury was established in 2014, on 8 December 2016 a letter came to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And now we're going with this amendment and the addition of the law to emergency procedures. Why? Why didn't it go into normal procedure? So the hill of law goes into normal procedure, not to mention some of the laws that we've done in the meantime after we've done a normal procedure in the first and second readings, so then when we decided to abolish the agencies, we put them out of force after all that. Why are you going into emergency procedures? It could've been in two readings, we could've said what we needed, so there's some reason for it. You're a lot of years old and when you see a lot of things, I'm absolutely sure there's a certain reason why this law goes into emergency procedure, that this law will be in a certain way a fig leaf for something else that happens to INA. INA is no longer a Croatian company. And we need to make that clear. On several occasions, the minister said 44.8% of INA in Croatian hands, 49.1% of INA is in the hands of MOL. One MP asked the question that it was rumored that the 49.1 was not from MOL but from someone else then he said it was impossible, it is not possible it can be very simple and clear. Equally when you read these two provisions of the law that change that famous art. 10th and famous article. 10A and you now say that in relation to the existing law, it is added that the obligation of one who wants to gain more than 25% or over 50% of the shares is to submit to the Minister of Energy a long-term management and business plan. And they will. And I guess they'll agree to that. And what we're gonna do when it doesn't work. So, these long-term development plans were adopted at the moment when MOL took over the INA and then MOL swore that in Sisak the refinery would work further and that the Refinery River would work. In Sisak the refinery won't, and they never thought of leaving the refinery, they just let it die so slowly. And then when you release the process of slow dying, all those who can find a job find a job and stay in the end just a handful of people with whom you then prolong that agony. I remember, for a long time, out there, 10 years ago, environmental impact assessments, related to the river refinery, were made, which means, defiled these refineries, which means everything else. These environmental assessments have already become obsolete, things have changed, and the refinery in Rijeka has not happened. So by who knows which way, mostly by hand, now that, 78, 79, I find it more difficult to count, I suppose 80, 81 of this law will be voted on Friday, when Friday's vote is voted. There must be someone else behind this, but in the meantime, we'll find out and see what it's about. But what we can't learn is that history is a teacher of life and that we try the mistakes we've made in history not to repeat. The same way when the minister was invoking, then the minister, the whole history, who is what and how is what. But we now have an actual state of mind. The fact that it's the way it is is and it's not different. And we can't take all those decisions back and come back at some point and say the wrong decision was. We all swear, and that's what this law says, and it's said several times, says secure energy supply, secure energy supply infrastructure. It is a floscula, a sentence that sounds good, but what we need to know is that a strategic firm is in the interests of Croatia, is not basically Croatia. That decisions are made not in Zagreb, but taken elsewhere. That when colleagues who are Europarliamentaries decide to vote on the policy that Mr Orban is doing and when they vote for it, they vote for other interests and other stories and other things. We just need to know what we want. We need to know which way we're going, we need to know what the goal is, whether the target is what the diameter is, it's already been over two years for Christmas Eve, two years ago promised and said Croatia will return it to the INA. Since you were two years old, you know what's been done? Nothing. It's not even a firm that's going to advise, it even cares. Nothing. At that point, it was one sentence that sounded good. And there was nothing out of that sentence, and we learned that there would be nothing in the future. Just as Minister Goran Maric said, if there is no refinery in Sisak, he will no longer deal with politics. There are no refineries in Sisak, no refineries in Sisak, and Goran Maric will continue to deal with politics. You have in politics as well as in real life and in everyday life, someone who will promise and say, so what he has promised, will easily promise and will not make and someone who will not promise, or when he promises not to, will come out, will say I am not and be ashamed of it or will not promise. Now it's just a question, what the citizens at one point choose, do they choose what they see with their own eyes or choose what sounds nice to them and who speaks well and promise nicely to the hills and valleys, and do nothing. So these amendments and the additions to the law, is who knows which right, I don't have any dilemma that it won't be voted on, why exactly and why exactly that way. It's a path to hell, kind of paved by good intentions, so you have to make something happen to the minister, so the minister will watch it, so the government has to make a decision, but what if no one does anything about it, so we have a chance to see it. Let's just say, when MOL took over the INA, INA was a big company, MOL was a small company, the result of INA being one company, within the MOL and MOL being one big company, doing what it wants. They do what they want and we calmly watch and announce things and the diameter announces things that we know they won't do. It won't come in this session either, Christmas and 2019 will come very soon Christmas and 2020, and with INA the situation will be the same as it is. For one key question, are we really sure that MOL, at this point there's only 49.1% of INA shares, we're not sure. And there's a different situation. But what we're sure of, which is that INA is no longer Croatia and we're sure that when we swear to security of supply and energy and infrastructure security, that energy supply is in one piece a colorful lie. And what we are sure is that the refinery in Rijeka will turn over time into something else, it will turn into another story and the question is one day, and it will be relatively fast to tell the story of how Croatia also had one company, which was called INA, which is no longer there. And these are the facts that we need to look clearly in the eyes, it's still not too late to wake up, but when you wake up, you need to know exactly what the point is, what the goal is and what you want. These amendments and additions to the law we at the GLAS and HSU Club will not support, we absolutely always agree, that when you get a certain injury that is related to the EU, you have to do so, but also protect your interests, so not as some European fathers who were mentioned today in another context, you get and you copy, you have to do an analysis which is the benefit and which is the damage, see if there is a greater benefit and greater damage to your interests. From this paper from this amendment and the addition of the law are not read anywhere about the interests of the Republic of Croatia I will not use those difficult words in which our prime minister jumps on parliamentary representatives in a very inappropriate way and then, under the influence of the Prime Minister and Minister, mentions betrayal, high treason and all others, I will not use such hard words, but let's think about what we want, when we think about what we want, when we know what we want, let's try something. This is one agony that lasts and will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127902	I thank my dear colleague, Anki Mrak-Taritash. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Milorad Batinić on behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127903	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, a very special topic that requires great attention, but obviously only until about 10, 11 o'clock. In fact, the story of privatising INE will start clean as a reminder so that in 2002, the Privatisation Act INE and Croatia 2013 became an EU member and, of course, we got a pack to say so from the European Commission and we need to bring the existing law in line with certain standards that exist in the EU, as well as in the market economy. What I failed to hear in the debate, however, one other document that is equally important to me is an intermediate contract, meaning 17 July 2003, not later than the adoption of the law in 2002, the contracting party and the MOL, respectively, the Republic of Croatia concluded a contract on the sale of 25% plus 1 shares. And then there were the ratios defined and this social contract when you go to read it as long as it is in force or as long as Croatia has 25% plus 1 share, and it has 44%, some percent, things can work the way they are. I won't go back to that period in 2008, when there was a supplement when there were transactions that are now subject to court proceedings, not wanting to reconsider the court's opinion or judgments if they were to be, and I believe they will be and will need to be. However, as regards the amendment of Article 10, not now entering into details above all, it is the product of what I have said to be in line with EU practice and here, if we want to be as a member, we must do so. Do we all agree with that? No, I don't. However, the fact is not the first time and it won't be the first time and we have to take some practice even though we think, some, that it doesn't work out for us. What, and I have to particularly apostrophe it, addition of Article 10a. in point 1. is mentioned as long as the Republic of Croatia is the owner of one or more shares, this one is probably the golden one as symbolically said where we can react and that rescue at the last minute if a decision is made by the administration that we do not have, we cannot influence, I would not want it to be a focus simply because I consider that the strategic interest of the Republic of Croatia, when we talk primarily about the security of energy supply, infrastructure security, I think it is necessary to keep 25% minimum plus one share. The fact is, in these circumstances, it's only possible now. We have 44, the government's intention to buy out the majority package, OK, we can ultimately accept that, however, what we think of as an important factor in energy security and stability. We can talk about this leak whether it was well managed by INA, whether Mol is as a majority partner in the period, and we have a foundation in the intermediate contract, whether he respected all the obligations, whether we're satisfied with that, and obviously it is. What I would also like to mention and remind, means Article 11 of the existing law, which is not changed then also predicts, means in 2002, as long as Croatia is the owner of 25% plus 1 shares, was the intention already fully sold to the INU, obviously like any law, and this is some kind of political message. And that's why I'm not inclined because I'm saying in terms of us in HNS what we have to keep minimum is 25 5 % plus one share, so we and this point 1 of Article 10a. which is a supplement that has its justification for its foothold, both in the inter-participation contract and in the law itself, but I am a little irritated by the owner of 1 share, so it was also gold, as it is said in business slang. I'm not inclined to think of it that way, what I would also like to say and ask the question, whether the amendments to this law are necessary to make changes to the Intermediate Treaty, and now that it can be long-term, it can be a problem in the long term. What's our position, what's our position in that part? What I would also like to say is, look briefly at the parts of the debate, the issue of existing refineries. The fact is that we react a little strangely, individuals, we all know very well how the Sisak refinery is, which is not good, but primarily, I don't think it's good at losing jobs. Whether such fate will happen to the river refinery, whether modernisation, a new technological step, is inevitable that in such a phase, in either restructuring or technological transformation, there is a loss of jobs. What I'd like to do, and I believe that the government, although it can't be part of this contract, which is to be led, about the substitution of jobs, about the substitution of jobs. So in all processes, we also witness shipbuilding in the economy, so the substitution of jobs is crucial. That's the key. The ownership structure, as it will be, means, the goal is to have natural resources, energy, in charge of the control package. As regards natural resources, water, forest, absolutely 100% ownership of Croatian forests, that is, the state of Croatia manages to avoid dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127904	I thank my esteemed colleague, Milorad Batinic, for this debate. Before continuing and moving on to individual discussions, warmly on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues, I welcome students and students, and professors and teachers, and their guests, II. Varazdin High School. Welcome and enjoy your stay. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127905	Thank you very much, Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry, that is, it's unacceptable that all the time we're talking about this topic where the Prime Minister should be in front of parliamentary deputies, about this topic of the death certificate of the most powerful energy INA, when the eth orbi is declared to be the INA that, he wants to declare himself, is to surrender as it was taken hostilely into the hands of the Hungarians at our Hungarians, which is not a minister here either. The minister means he doesn't even have an obligation now that the cameras have been extinguished or sitting here in front of parliamentary deputies on a very important topic. We are aware that he cannot defend this law. A law that is full of illogicalness, a Law that has 22 articles and 24 paragraphs, in which it is even 10 times mentioned, is the beginning of a word if, 10 times, if. Those who are addressed, experts in this energy sector problem know that if this harms the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia, and that this law is in no way in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, this is essentially the last nail in the coffin of the Croatian strongest company, which is the INA. I would now remind you, before I go on, of the words of Minister Maric, who, who is the protector, Goran Marić, the protector of national interests, who is in Sisak with the mayors, the presidents of HDZ organizations, the council, in 2016, said I will play a video so that Mr Sokol, the dentist of Andrija Plenkovic, hears better what they represented in 2016, so that it does not turn out to be just a sparrow, that it is a Falcon and not a abdominal of Andrija Plenković, "Before we stop dealing with politics than allow closure", here again perhaps he has not heard, "the existence of colleagues and me, and we clearly and publicly promise not to allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak because of the importance for the Croatian economy and the importance of this region, we will cease to deal with politics rather than allow closure". Here is a statement of the national policy pillar of the Croatian Democratic Community, so, when we mention Orban here, just before Orban was mentioned, it's not Croatian politics either, the problem is what Plenkovic is not acting, and our government, like Orban. The problem is that, in the political and national interest, because INA went away, that Mrs. Pusic, you're laughing, I would love to have MOL, that Croatia owns MOL, and that you as a member of the government where you were, were protecting national interests and now you wouldn't be discussing it here, and believe me, Miro Bulj would not be in Parliament if you were protected national interests when you were together with Slavko Linic in the government, when they left the White Nights, the White Nights, the Black Ways, it could be the slogan of the campaign when you went to protect your national interests, and you must promote it together with the people sitting here on the other side. The fact is, yes, but your staff from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs continue to run Croatian, from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because of this and these staff, today in the Republic of Croatia without, when you drag me to the language Mrs Pusic and you didn't get the word, today in the Republic of Croatia key people of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are at the head of all institutions, and this is docadroved during Mate Granic, you know it well, and he was the main staff member of Budimir Lončar. So we have a representative of the state in '92. in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have Andrej Plenkovic, who has two wishes to enter HDZ, in your party in 2011, Mrs Pusic, and is in very good relations with you, so that's 2011, and he's the prime minister. And we have Gordan Jandrokovic, the biggest confidant of Ivo Sanader when it happened means, when millions, billions, this colleague Bačić knows well what was going on around the INA,... INA, Jozo Petrović, big, big, this one, impressionable, consultant and tailor of the fate of Croatia and these similar characters but the fact is that this death certificate is now the result because the whole package of Plenkovic-Orban agreements reads INA, the refinery in Sisak, MOL, Petrochemia, JANAF, Sanader, Henerdi. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the whole story. So here you can see exactly the example of privatisation as it went that the SDP started with white nights and Sanader put the last nail in the coffin. And Andrej Plenkovic here, who screamed from the front page of the MOL, will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak, 2 years ago, the urbi et orbi also hinted at Christmas that INA will become the property of the Republic of Croatia by trying to sell what HNS promised. That's why his coalition partner tried the Vrdoljak, I'll try to buy off the shares of HEP to the INA. Well, gentlemen, my dear, gentlemen, my dear, you brought this death certificate here today. In a death certificate where this law, where I just don't know what it's like, it's embarrassing for the minister here to explain, he has no cheek. Here's an assistant who's a little sleepy. The Prime Minister doesn't have the Parliament to tell us. But there's a well-known Mr. Sokol, who defends all the principles and credibility of this government now, and he's the one who says no, Goran Maric didn't say that. Goran Maric said in Sisak that the refinery if it sells it is a national betrayal, no, it fell from space. Well, gentlemen, this is the only place that the consultants, the consultants, have earned. Orban in this case got INA and the Hungarians got through our Hungarians. In that context, I was going to say. Which is why INA isn't in the hands, which is why MOL isn't in the hands of a stronger company than INA. For what? Because of the consultants. For one thing, he's talking, the other one's raving. I would once again express dissatisfaction, otherwise the entire administration, so we're, watch 20+1, 25+1 gold shares, MOL's got management rights. And then he says we see court proceedings. And... He says that if it was $10 million, I'm in five, I know where that $5 million is. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now, where's the other 5 million, who's been negotiating, Jozo Petrovic? Oh, look. So where's the other 5 million. That is, at a time when the Croatian state pre-accession to the EU, it is a time when it was called to Europe, it is a time to reach the European elites in Brussels, when it was located, arrested, transferred and processed everything that could be processed by all the generals. No, it's not enough General Gotovina, it doesn't take 10 generals. Well, it's not enough 17 documents from the Homeland War, it doesn't need 17 helmets. And at the same time, at the same time, INA was robbed, consultants did their job, and this is today if we gentlemen accept the death certificate, this is the death certificate, that's the fact. There's no argument. No more of that story, we won't sell the 2016 refinery it's a national edition, no more stories from Andrej Plenkovic MOL I won't allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak, it will stand firm, it will protect national interest. There is no such story from diplomats of ours, diplomats who lead the Republic of Croatia in key places and Croatia has never stopped worse relations with everyone from neighbors to the purchase of planes, there are no planes, where planes, where the refinery, where the INA, where national interests are protected and the biggest diplomats, Brussels and what, that's a good relationship with everyone is a good relationship, Juncker, Tusk, Tajani, they're all there, they're all great, good, friends, in an election campaign walking in Istria, it's in Croatia, it's Ivo Sanader even had to be ashamed that it's Andrej Plenkovic advertised when it's spoken. And where is our INA, where INA is missing, the strongest energy company. Yes, not only in this direction of energy, but also in terms of renewable sources. Instead of having microsolars, we have God-given noon, we have the sun, we have the largest number of sunny days. We give billions, two and a half billion, one billion and a half give consumers, a billion suppliers give foreign owners of the vertro power plant.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127906	Thank you very much, Mr. Bull, thank you. But you have a replica, so you'll be able to continue. Mr. Sladolev first asked for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my esteemed colleague Bully, we've had one government fight against the fake news all the time, i.e. We have the fact, therefore, that the title of the National of Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic will never allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak, we have a statement by Minister Maric that he will stop dealing with politics if the INA closes. And the only thing that's true is that he said that he would really stop dealing with politics but not because he wants to, but that's what Croatian citizens will decide after... The choice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127908	Mr. Bull, come in. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127909	Yeah, fake news is the main word, so here's what you said, not to repeat ourselves, that's what I said. For example. You have now, there have been some portals where HDZ even mayors pay huge money, as in my Sinj, huge money to write on their portals and give news and credible and true, for example. 25 thousand kuna, that's the influence of media freedom. We see on HRT it means prosecutor, not DORH prosecutor, but prosecutor becomes HRT who pursues, prosecutes, judges the media. No. Here is the fact that robbery and national betrayal were made because INA is the largest energy company not only needed to be in Croatia as it was, but should have been in the whole area. And she was supposed to protect like the eyes in her head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127910	Thank you, Mr. Grumoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127911	Dear colleague Bulj, I think you've touched the key things, and I've already replicated that. So before the national energy strategy was adopted, this government agreed to shut down the mammalian refinery. The government has allowed MOL to enter petrokemia, and the government is now preparing to reroute mammal oil to be processed probably in Hungarian or other refineries. That's the plan and no one here from the HDZ who deals with this topic has dared to talk about it. Some of them were wet like colleagues of Shuker, Bačić, they were still carrying bags, so they can't, it would be a little awkward if they were talking about this topic. But then they sent out signs of a man who betrayed all his principles, Mr. Sokola, from the Catholic University, who voted here against his beliefs about the Istanbul Convention, as Andrej Plenkovic ordered him and now he defends such shameful decisions. So they're guys like that, and that's what they do, they betray national interests, and the first ones here are big patriots.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127912	Mr. Thunder, yes, but in the time we're given. Mr. Bacic, Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127913	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Grmo was injured by an officer. ... The Rules of Procedure, therefore, renders falsehood, insults other MPs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My friend Bolmo, remember, Branko Bacic never took out any bags. It's your ghastly lie, which you repeat from day to day, counting on it to become true. I've never worn any bags and you know it. It's never written anywhere, nor did I do it. It's at a level where I would repeat to you the charges Mr. Jambo made to you to make money to the meth departments. where you and your family stayed, the same level of charge. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bačić, time., Mr. Bačić.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127914	Thank you very much. Mr. Bull, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127915	Comrade Grmoy, it is clear here that former Minister Vrdoljak, simply as far as JANAF is concerned, as far as the refinery's shutting down in Sisak is concerned, it is quite clear that JANAF probably already has projects for the pipeline where anyone will know... oil, not in the refinery, so that story is essentially known, and so does counterpart Bačić and everyone knows that it is simply the work of Minister Vrdoljak, who is simply energy, the energy of the Republic of Croatia, created by an addictive, and not independent, and what the bridge of independent lists would be needed, it is peacemakers, not harmful projects, and projects from which money is drawn from the Republic of Croatia and invested in other countries, it is about billions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, obviously here is not an interest in protecting national interests, here it is much more important to be a good associate with consultants and to serve Brussels officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127916	Thank you. Mr. Sokol.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Bulj, you've been belittled here, etc. You've hurt your rules of procedure, but I'm not going to lift your rules of procedure, I'd just refer to what you said, if I was a ventriloquist, you'd probably want to say that I'm some kind of doll, right? Ugl. I am no one's doll, I have my profession, I have my education, I don't live from selling fog in the House, like you are, and for that level you brought down to the Croatian Parliament, you can be ashamed of yourself.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127918	We've got one violation of the Rules of Procedure before, Mr. Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127919	Good afternoon. 138 Insultation [[/Intruder Radin: Which one?]] 238. Excuse me. [[Intruder Radin: 138th cannot be.]] Insulting MPs, sir. [[338th, 438th which?]] 238 [[Intruder Radin: 230. Which one??/]] Well, the gentleman from HDZ said that Mr. Grmoya was lying and that Mr. Grmoya was actually beating up empty straw, etc. [[And say what please?]] That's how he hurt their honor. But what's crucial is that even here, the defense lies lie, and I'll read what he says, Bacic at the Sanader trial. I have handed over 2 million kunas and 300,000 euros,.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped./... [[Intruder Radin: Thank you time, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127920	Time, time So listen, you didn't know which member, which article, it wasn't my fault. [[But you took my time, sir.]] It's not my fault. Read the Rules of Procedure. [[So I said 238, you went on to list 338. 430/]] Mr. Bull's answer. [[But, sir, I'm sorry, just let me finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127921	My fellow Falcone, when you praise me, I will come out of politics because of you listeners of Brussels' obedience or chat, I am here by chance, and the people choose me with a number of votes. That you're a abdominal, you've got powers you're the man who teaches with your... In the Catholic University, you're the one defending the Vatican Agreements, you're all, but still, you voted for the Istanbul Convention. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you're really a spokesman here, you know that it is, you've been given the task of saying it. Ask Andrej Plenkovic, where he was at some point, he was older than me for 5.6 years at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the time of the thunder. Ask, you will answer him in this way where you have been, what you do, you are a disgrace to the Parliament. I am proud of the end I come from, I am proud of those who have given me support, but I will never be a abdominal or follow the principles of the Brussels officers.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127922	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr. Bulj, you've seen there's been a breach of the Rules of Procedure and I haven't given anyone a warning, but if there's going to be any further arbitrary tagging of MPs I'm going to have to give a warning. I'm just saying in advance, Mrs. Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127923	Thank you very much. I have raised the replica of my colleague Bulju only for the sake of factography, means the loss of the first ransom right, when you read those in speeches signed by Ljubo Jurcic, then Minister and Chairman of MOL... and when we compare these articles, i.e., an article that is being changed today, only that article is being touched here. 10. which, by EU law, therefore, the Republic of Croatia had the right to veto, and if one of the other parties gets 25%, that article has already become, so the invoice is not like you said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The factography isn't what you said. The factography shows everything that we've touched in the debate and this isn't a death certificate, this would be me, if we're going to metaphorically express ourselves, an attempt to tear down the concubine and not blind with a single tape, which is impossible and we know it, but who ripped it up, it's been going since 2002. And it continues, some have been held accountable. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127924	Mr. Bull, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127925	Well, look, pals, you know what Bacic told you while I was talking, it's not true. I'll just tell you about the Rijeka refinery that it's a death certificate, that it's a death certificate, and I'll repeat what my colleague Maric said, but you hear better from his... /The speaker releases the footage of Minister Goran Marić/... "...the existence of colleagues and me is clearly and publicly promised, we will not allow the closure of the Refinery in Sisak because of the importance for the Croatian economy and the importance of this region. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] "This tells you everything, that all your stories, promises are false and that it is high treason. I repeat what Goran Maric said that this is high treason with the fact that he is in the government that is a high-level traitor is I confirming what he said, and you are giving that support and you must be aware, that everything that your colleague Bacic told you is a common and disgusting fiction is he really so, so capable that he can really be the minister of beauty of reality, that I have said to him on many occasions, and I congratulated him on that, what he can do, no one can.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127926	Thank you, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127927	Thank you very much. Here, colleague Bulj, you're often making statements today, so here's an interview with your former minister, Dobrovic. Exactly two years from today, meaning the second month of 2017. What exactly is the future of INA? She needs a quality strategy because the world is in a low carbon transition. But about all of this, INA has its place, even these two refineries that we have, which in years ahead can be gradually rescheduled. We've taken care of this segment at MOST, or we'll finally change or fail, I don't agree to this second, and that's why I got into politics. Nothing. So, the refineries, the two refineries we have, which, in years ahead, can be gradually re-scheduled. Gentlemen, what are you guys talking about here all day? So while you were in power, you were taking care of that segment and what's the matter with you today? Look at the statements, where did your former minister go? He doesn't want to go with you. after you have reduced this MOST to a level of a smaller OPG to even discuss this topic because [[Intruder: Thank you]] He knows what he was saying and what he was doing. [[- Intruder: Sir, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127928	Mr. Bull, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127929	Here, I'd just briefly answer, I know, and I remember he's like a young minister. Excuse me, Minister of State, Secretary of State, Minister Calmeti, during the coloring of the tunnel, I prefer to be that, rather than be the one who supports the coloring of the tunnel, where the money has been drawn for billions, I prefer to be, not in this parliament, but to be in support of that policy, which then robbed the Croatian people, it is preferable to me. And what I had in the O.P.G. and what I have O.P.G., I mean, that's no problem to me at all. The problem here is strategic, what was robbed the Republic of Croatia when you were secretary at the Ministry of Minister Kalmeta, because of the coloring of tunnels and similar works, today INA is in this problem, and INA is in this problem, it is a problem of fellow Boric, respecting your quality and everything that was made in the Republic of Croatia, but the most crucial tasks were how to paint tunnels and paint people with false promises.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127930	Thank you very much. Injuries to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grmoy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127931	Dear counterpart Boris He's hurt. 238 [[Wait, wait, the article.]] So it's not [[/Intruder: In what?]] So, my colleague Boris did not refer to Mr Bulj's exposure, but he did refer, so what we were saying here in the replicas of his colleague Bulju, and that's the violation of his Rules of Procedure, and Mr Boric that what HDZ is planning with the Most, they would not be this nervous, nor would Prime Minister Plenkovic come forward [[/Intruder: In what?]] on me [[Intruder: Thank you]] You know very well who's the one who's hurting you the most. [[Intruder: Thank you]] And we're gonna keep hitting you. [[/Intruder: The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric, here you go.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127932	The second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Boric, please...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127933	Thank you very much. The same Article. 238, the fact is that when you set them up, that's when you set them up. When you read to them that the MOST advocated a gradual re-purpose of business, it means, the refinery, when you confront them with it, then the insult or comparison begins. I was the secretary of state, I'm proud of it, I've done my job very well, I haven't dealt with the tunnels, but for your knowledge of the indictments that have been filed for this project, etc. Or whatever it was. It's been rejected, so it's all [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] What you're saying is at the level [[/Intruder: Thank you very much.]] perceptions and lies. [[I'd have to give it to you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127934	Thank you very much, I'd have to give two warnings, I won't give any, I won't give any, but please, let's not abuse, we have replicas, these are individual debates, we have a bunch of opportunities to take the word, let's not abuse the Rules of Procedure, please beautiful. You answered, didn't you? Yeah. I'm asking you to help me, you've already answered, haven't you? Thank you very much. We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Felak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127935	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and fellow MPs, I must admit that I have been thinking about whether I should at all discuss the matter after the coming-up of a fellow member of the Most, labeling all HDZ representatives, I don't know if they should even be discussed in HS on this issue because they obviously have the exclusive right to debate. But I'll say mine, we've been discussing for almost four hours a proposal to amend the laws that have 3 articles. The third article says that this law will enter into force 8 days after its publication in the National Journal. These first two articles discuss amendments to the article. 10th of this famous INA Privatisation Act, which was passed in 2002. On the proposal of the then government of Ivica Racan, the minister in charge of the economy and energy was Mr. Ljubo Jurcic of this law signed by Mr. Zlatko Tomcic, and the decision to declare the law was signed by Mr. Stjepan Mesic. Thank God at that time there was no MOST, no Living Wall, no other parties, so they'll make it clear, and that's what the others are guilty of, the SDP, and after that, the HDZ, etc., we heard here and now just a moment ago that there were some statements that also meant MOST ministers when they were still in the government and they were responsible for something, then they went out of it in their own way, I won't say they ran away, because it's the easiest thing to always be on the side and blame the others for doing something wrong. We have also heard from the president of the SDP who is currently issuing national interests here he quotes one of my fellow parties, but in fact he wants to say that HDZ has issued national interests, and I have just said exactly who adopted the Law on Privatisation of INE and this law is, I repeat once again, that INA is privatised in 100% part, in certain phases, this is said in Article 4 of this same law where we are now amending this Article 10a and we are adding Article 10a, not on request, not at the request of the European Commission, but in the 7th month 2017, the European Commission has made a decision to press charges against the Republic of Croatia and each responsible government must take steps in connection with this, and this government is responsible and has sent this proposal of the law to the European Commission in the legal procedure that we are manifesting ourselves to the Republic of Croatia to avoid sanctions and penalties which would probably not be small. The fact is also that many governments, that two governments were before and for 10 years before this, have been talking about it, to avoid making decisions like this, for these or those reasons, but this government has had the courage and courage but also the responsibility to put it into debate knowing that it will probably discuss everything else, not just these three articles that I mentioned at the beginning of my presentation, but it's about the refinery of this, about that, it's a death certificate here, let someone show me where in this law or amendments to the law mention the refinery in Sisak, nowhere. As not a lot of other things are mentioned, but it is said about everything else that could be told negatively to this government, to this government, which has so far been done and clearly to this parliamentary majority, we are even forbidden to say that because I will probably deserve what kind of epithets I am not afraid of, I can share them left and right, if there are needs of this, but it is my desire to point out to the public, that all those who have been able to act so far, and these were people and from the Most particularly SDP, and even the previous HDZ government has not paid enough attention to this, but the fact that only in 2013 we entered the EU and then this problem has become current and that I repeat the words of Prime Minister Čorića, there is nothing special behind this law. So we, as a responsible EU member, must respect EU rights and in order to avoid punishment, we are penalizing these amendments to the law of this 3 articles amending the law. As far as the EU is concerned, I am also surprised by some who have spoken here today who have been great advocates of joining the EU, in order to use some things in part from the EU today, and here we would all like to mean money from EU funds, so we ask ourselves how many of them we have received, so we boast when someone has withdrawn money for certain projects, we would like those 10 billion Euros that foreign tourists who are mostly coming from the EU, but when something is not responding to us, or when we think that someone has set something up for us, and this time I guess this is thinking about our strategic partner in INI, MOL behind which is the Hungarian state, and then we would not accept that part, and we would not vote it. It just doesn't work. The EU is one organised community, we have also declared ourselves in a referendum, and we have confirmed this to all the bodies of this country where we should be here for EU entry for 6 years, 5 and a half years full-fledged EU member and we must simply comply with EU law. Some times it goes in our favor, some times not until the end, but we simply have to respect the laws of both our countries and this Rules of Procedure that we have, but also the EU's legislation. So I think, and I'm saying this, I'm not exactly a sitter or on behalf of anyone, I'm saying that around this law it was clearly expected that it would be used to discuss INI, 1,000 other things, but this law is nothing special, and I'm afraid that we've wasted 5, 4, 5 hours of time in this assembly, and that we could use much more quality for some other laws, and when the INA theme is as such, INA as such, business of INE and everything else then I think that the opportunity to say and all that has been said here in the assembly today, but I think that it could have been introduced a little less passion and a lot less insult from fellow MPs. And I think we should go in that direction, otherwise, to argue, but I'm afraid that my appeal is not going down, it's not going to fall on fertile soil, so, for my debate on this law, it's going in that direction to try to be reasonable that we don't lead, that we're not having any useless debates about something in this three articles, and when it's time for that to lead the debate, but around INE, no one is innocent until the end, and it's known that the SDP government has just passed the INE Privatisation Act and that's where it all started from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127936	Thank you, Mr. Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127937	Dear colleagues, you mentioned that in our debate we said something false, not only am I Mr. Plenkovic's interview as HDZ leader entering the war with MOL because of the INA refineries, MOL will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak, I said. The prime minister said he would buy, buy, return to INA's Croatian property, but this law only gives Croatia two representatives in the Administration who have no right to vote, do not have, do not smell vote,... What do we get? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's the second, and the most important thing in all of this is that this Law is a death certificate for all of the former uses and INA has no national potential anymore. She's in the hands of the Hungarians, our Hungarians did it and you said it all well, started the SDP, ended the HDZ. So you were during Sanader at HDZ? Well, it's not Sanader from Mars, so you were wearing a jacket... When Ivo, me and me... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127938	Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Felak, answer. Mr. Felak, answer. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127939	Thank you. Comrade Bulj, you continued in your, in your style, this, I'm not sure if you were in HDZ at the time, and no, you were confused, colleague Pernar was, a colleague of Pernar's, uh, you were at the beginning, if you see that you, too, have discovered that you were in HDZ for a time, so let's let it go 'who's when, 'Who was in, 'when he was in HDZ, I only asked that in this House how much culturally he was discussing, that people should not be called national traitors, that they should not be called abdominals, that they should not be spoken of as you are now me, but it is a reflection of someone's culture, of someone's bonton, of someone's home education in the end, so that I can't talk about it much, the concrete replica of my exposure is not, nor was it. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127940	Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127941	Thank you very much. A large part of the debate was just about the refinery, so here is more about the credibility of MOST and its initiatives throughout the day, the 10th month of 2016, the big headline in 24 hours, Panenic warned: The closure of the refinery in Sisak was inevitable, confirmed by the then Minister, Minister of Protection, Mr Dobrović did not, was a break in the Parliament, where, where MOST advocates the closure of the refinery, which was later repeated by Dobrović in the 2nd month 2017, and today the whole story, an attempt to transfer responsibility from himself and his own failures, the own policy that reduced them to the level of a central OPG, to tell us today, try to load on our back or accuse us of something that their ministers had advocated. It's facts, it's facts that write and cannot be erased, gentlemen of the Most.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127942	Mr. Felak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127943	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Boric, for reminding me of some of these, in some of these statements, I personally am against closing the refinery in Sisak, and I hope that, in a way, it will find a way that will not happen. If it happens, then take care of the employees properly. And it is very clear, here from these statements, that MOST Minister is also at the time not to advocate himself, but he understood the reality of some events in Croatia, and that perhaps some things could not be avoided. But now, this second part of the Most who basically remains in the Most, has a completely different mindset and clearly he uses it in the daily, for daily political needs. The facts are one thing, and these, these insinuations and truths that are brought out are something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127944	Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127945	Your Honor, Representative Felak. You said, and I quote, "We must respect EU laws whether they are good or bad." What you said is that we are not equal in the European Union, that we do not actually have the opportunity to decide whether or not we agree to something, but even when something is worse or to our harm, we must accept it. This is what you said, about the relationship between the European Union and Brussels, with Croatia and Zagreb. They are your superiors, you are their subjects, they are what they tell you, you must do whatever it takes for Croatia good or not. According to the results of your policy, we can safely conclude that you, together with Brussels, are leading Croatia to ruin. And this is another reason for getting out of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127946	Mr. Felak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127947	Thank you. Well, colleague Pernar, I didn't expect you to think differently, and I respect him as such, you are absolutely against respecting any laws, whether they are the European Union, whether they are the laws of the Republic of Croatia, or I don't know, the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. You've shown it many times in this House, and you've expressed your views, and I accept those attitudes as such, but it's not something that normal society can function on. Therefore, it would, it would lead to complete anarchy, and in general your party's policy or program of your party's anarchist programme, it would very quickly recognise and already recognize most of the voters in the Republic of Croatia, and I believe that this will show the first next elections. It means disrespecting the law, disrespecting everything, whether it be the laws of the European Union, whether it be the laws of the Republic of Croatia, or anyone else, and I did not say that we respect the laws whether they are valid or not, but whether we like them or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127948	Thank you, too. Mr. Grmoya.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127949	Dear Vice President. It is amazing what amount of lies and deception are served by colleagues from the HDZ, to take advantage of the break of MP Panenic in the Croatian Parliament, in which he warns that if the government continues to act like this,... Read your colleague, read your colleague completely, so enough of your lies and delusions, but surely your colleague Panenic did not deceive the Croatian people that he would not allow the shutdown, and then shut down the Sisak refinery as your prime minister did. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's the front page, I won't let MOL shut down the mammalian refinery, and now that refinery is shutting down. But what's worse than shutting down the Sisak Refinery is the release of people in the research and development of INA. Check how many people are fired here, Mr. Felak, and the MOST does not forbid you to speak, forbid you to speak Mr. Kopal And the others, did you maybe sign? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That statement that you can't speak for the public. [[Intruder: There was a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Are you a signer? those statements? [[Intruder: Enough, time, time Mr. Grmoya time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127950	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127951	The Honorable Vice President of Article 238, because I'm accused in a replica, means that I'm lying and telling the truth which is not true because I've been reading from the portal for 24 hours. I will read it, here it is, the Minister of Environment and Energy of the Most Slaven Dobrović this morning in front of the Ban Courts confirmed that the oil refinery in Sisak would be shut down. [[Intruder: Read all.]] Which means losing the refineries, we need to realize that the entire society in transition we go to a post-folic society, the consumption of derivatives decreases, it's inevitable that some capacities have to be shut down. It's not a lie that's what your minister said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127952	Thank you, Mr. Boric, Mr. Grmoya also has a breach of the Rules of Procedure. What article, why?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127953	Article 238 means just before, a colleague named Boris recently called for a break from counterpart Panenic, when he saw that I had discovered him now seeks out some other statement to prove his claims. You've shut down the Sisak refinery, and we've gone to new elections because of INE, you're the one who's criminal and corruption means Jozo Petrovic and Ivo Sanader and the rest of us turned over the INA to the Hungarians, and we've fought to keep it from happening. You're the one who was carrying the bags. [[Thank you very much, thank you.]] As much as my colleague Bacic claims it isn't like that. [[Intruder: Thank you very much, sit down, sir, Mr. Grmoya please sit down.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127954	What I said before now, I regret to activate two warnings from Mr. Grmoja and Mr. Boric because you had replicas of each other, not injuries to the Rules of Procedure, please. Let's move on, Mr. Lenart, no answer was, Mr. Felak's answer, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127955	Well, Mr. Grumoja's first answer to this part around Hungary, as far as I know the last war against Hungarian Croats fought during Ban Jelačić, we also had one episode when we brought the Međimurje back into our hands in 1918. As far as I'm concerned, under the leadership of the Quaternik army. When we talk about this famous statement that you're hunting, that you're hunting this one if I signed that statement, then you wouldn't be talking in the assembly today because you'd have to ask me now I don't know who you'd have to ask in the party, and I'd have to ask Mr. Bull and you. So I'm here to speak freely, as far as the statement is concerned, let the HDZ deal with it, and you solve your problems with yourself, which you have in MOST and which are not small.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127956	No tossing, please, no tossing. Mr. Lenart, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127957	Thank you, Your Honor. Vice-President, you're here talking about some banning speech, so the only person who can allow you to forbid it is your president and your political commissioner here in the assembly, I'm asking you if you've ever voted in this assembly on your conscience, you don't always have to vote once and for all, as your political commissioner tells you. [[Intruder: You are disciplined, please.]] And you're saying that this law doesn't mention the Sisak refinery, not to mention, but they mention other laws, here I was driving along the Sisak refinery the day before yesterday, the Sisak refinery is silent, the Sisak refinery is gone. In my individual debate, I'm going to do a little bit more about the meaning of it, and you've squeezed it here means not by your conscience the button and voted for that law that shuts down Sisak's refinery.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127958	Mr. Felak, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127959	Thank you, Mr. Lenart, as far as your conscience is concerned, that's what you'd be able to talk about, start at first. How do you vote whether you really want it or not, or what some others tell you, I even think you're not in your party, but somewhere else. This, I vote the way I think it should and how some of the political practices require it, and so I will continue to do so as long as this government has confidence and most of it in this assembly, I am part of that majority, and I will respect my party's decisions. If I agree with them every time, it would be possible to talk about it, but that's not the kind of thing that I'm making decisions about how I'm going to vote, or anyone, or anyone in this majority, and in the end you were a member of a government, and you know how you voted both in that government and how you acted there, whether by your conscience or by someone's cracks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127960	Mr. Lenart, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127961	So article 238 is an insult, dear colleague Felak look when I vote. [[What did Mr. Felak say?]] He insulted me to vote not by my conscience but by someone's guidance. Dear fellow [[I'll tell you what.]] If you haven't looked at the screen once to support your HDZ laws as well, [[Intruder: You finish, and then you reject the warning.]] And you didn't support any of the HSS amendments. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] And that I was a government secretary for two years, but after Eva Sanader who privatized the INU and there I did my job. I'm not ashamed of this job. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127962	Thank you very much, Mr. Lenart. You have a note, unfortunately, because it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I gave you the right to speak until the end. Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, [[Intruder: Dear Vice President, you are today.]] Don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, don't, [[I'm sorry, I have to talk to you. I'm sorry.]] Don't Mr. Sladolev, don't [[Intruder: Because you allowed a series of discussions today, you did not share any warnings.]] you know what follows the second reminder [[And now you're starting to share warnings, so we're getting more equal in this assembly, right?]] I'm telling you one more time, don't. [[So you can give me 5 but you haven't given me anything for many.]] Here you go, Mr. Sladekov.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127963	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, here's the esteemed Mr. Felak, so most of your debate was actually based on the MOST debate, although we didn't even express our views, but we were actually quoting Prime Minister Plenkovic from the newspaper, Minister Marić from television, so you should actually replicate to them because we were the only ones who actually quoted them. I expect you to ask this question here on the current watch, Minister Marić, next time it is a current watch that he thought he would stop dealing with politics if INE refinery Sisak is allowed to be closed, then I will respect you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127964	Mr. Felak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127965	I thank you, here's a colleague of Sladolov's you said exactly you didn't state the views of MOST you pulled a fragmentary statement from some people, and why didn't you state the views of MOST? Well, because you either don't have attitudes or you don't want to express them as your own. We'd like to see your program about both energy and everything else, and then we could talk about it, so this is the easiest way to criticize someone who does something and not have any solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127966	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debates, Mr. Bunzac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127967	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we listen to a lot of things during this debate, here we are even being taught by Representative Felak the history of Međimurje, and he said that the Croats last fought against Hungarians in 1848 even though they fought 918th and 945th, and that the Kvaternik army leader freed Međimurje in 45th, but this is really a lapus at the level of the child from elementary school. We hear from the other side, I mean, the problem is that Mr. Felak lives 5 km away from Međimurje, let him live, I don't know, in Metkovic, it would still be so understandable. We hear also the pearls of the MOST MPs who fought hard against HDZ, so that they co-ordinated with HDZ, that was their big fight and this one, and I really need to remind the public and wonder if the representatives of the Most today would be sitting in the parliamentary majority if Andrej Plenkovic hadn't detonated them in that famous move within 5 minutes. I would also like to see today, tomorrow, if there was no Andrej Plenkovic, would the representatives of the Most for the third time co-ordinate with HDZ? My personal belief is that, and now they're pulling each other's eyes out, so they swear who prefers INA, even though I don't really believe that each other really cares about the company's interests. And the key is, in fact, that 90% of Croatian citizens don't want the privatisation of INA. I'm responsible for that. Here, today we'll discuss the referendums. If a referendum on the privatisation of INA was allowed, and I see no reason why it would not be allowed, I guarantee that 90% of Croatian citizens would vote against it. And do you gentlemen know what that means? This means that HDZ members would vote against, and you know, Mr. Coric, that you are a minority even in your own party. Your parliamentary representatives Mr. Coric, they don't support this law, they don't support it, they said it to my face. They told me in my face what they kept quiet in front of you, and you know why? Is it cowards, that's how you brought in HS men robots to vote for whatever you suggest. They have their own opinions, of course, but that's only what they say when they're allowed to, otherwise they're called halftime in professional literature. And you know very well that you can't explain this in any way to the Croatian citizens, to defend the unwarranted and that while you're trying to show this law as something useful and just, you feel deeply uncomfortable and you don't sleep peacefully, that's the problem, and now you show me who these people are that support you, that policy of yours? Come on, show me one man who will tell the privatisation of INA, and that Croatian nationality, that it is not the Hungarian administration in the INA. In view of this, therefore, that the entire Croatian people are against this privatisation, as well as against most of the privatisations that you have spent because they paid for this privatisation... First of all, workers, and afterwards Croatian taxpayers, there is still someone who will reject this law entirely. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] There is someone Mr. Coric who has never gone to the coalition with you and will never go to the coalition with you, you can offer whatever chairs, ministerial places, places on the monitoring boards, but Live Wall you will never buy, ever. And our time is coming, you know that if only young Croatian citizens voted, Live Wall would get more votes than HDZ and SDP together, see the actual polls. And when that happens, then not only will we cancel the privatisation of the INA, not only will we cancel the privatisation of all the companies that you have robbed and shared with your friends, you will also be politically and legally responsible for the crime of treason against Croatian citizens- You will have the opportunity to remember my words, Mr. Coric, and you are only exulting in your childish self-esteem and you think that you can do what you want, according to your mentor's recommendation, Mr. Borg, but you will not do it as long as you want. There were systems in this space much, much more powerful, much, much stronger than you, and one day you'll have to file accounts. Therefore, this law no, no and never will, INA will be again a Croatian company, and you Croatian citizens today have the opportunity to decide to whom you give your trust, whether to people who give national wealth, your money, for small money, for small fees to foreigners or those who want to enjoy the generations and generations ahead of us personally and generations to come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127968	Minister Coric asked for 5 minutes on behalf of the promoter. Excuse me, Minister, I'm sorry, I have to give Mr. Felak a word for the replica, just a moment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127969	I thank the chairman. A colleague of Bunjac, I can agree with you in this part that most Croatian citizens would probably be against the INA Privatisation Act today, but the INA Privatisation Act was passed in 2002. And since then it's been in service. We're changing only one article of that law here today and adding one more, but we're not changing the measure of things, and we can't change it, the ownership ratios are already said here today, 49% has today MOL, 44 and some states and some small shareholders have. So this isn't the INA Privatisation Act, just a revision of an article, and as far as my lapus is concerned, I admit if I was wrong, I certainly didn't mention 45th, 1918. Croatian troops, led by Eugen Quaternik, joined Međimuri to the then Kingdom of SHS, and later on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127970	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127971	Thank you very much, President Felak, for the attack of honesty, and I must admit that I am touched by that statement of yours, and I am glad that Minister Ćorić listened to it, he will answer my statements in anger right now. I am, however, only obliged to tell you one more thing. In fact, you're right when you made up that the Quaternik military leader wasn't in 1945. He set Međimurje free, but in 918, it wasn't Eugen Quaternik, it was Slavko Quaternik. Eugene Quaternik is your son Slavko Quaternik, he was at the time of NDH minister and criminal, so, well, welcome a little discussion about history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127972	Here you go, my mistake before, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127973	Dear Representative Bunjac, let me first of all refer to the part of your presentation. Of course, in no way do I want to offend you, nor you, nor the political option you represent. However, you, for what you have said about future legal processes related to these amendments and additions to the INA Privatisation Act, therefore, these amendments and additions to the INA Privatisation Act at the time when the Republic of Croatia is the owner of 44.8% of the INA shares and when I really do not see a single reason for this share of RH owned by INA to be reduced, first of all, to protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia in INA, as I told you, our wish to avoid financial penalties and conflict, or possibly a lawsuit in the European Court of Justice, and on the other hand, parallel to that, to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia in INA. You know for a fact that the law was written in 2002. When it's brought in and actually about the measure of things, there's nothing to add. I'm deeply certain that your facilities that you've carried out don't touch too much art. Article 10, respectively. 10a. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Privatisation of INA, they touch on some future times, so let me finish my presentation with the thesis I am deeply convinced of. You've angry him with us and this country and future generations if you're going to be the one to determine the future of this country in any way. You've angry him with all those people who think about having this kind of thesis that you're bringing out, and that your plans make sense. You've been eating at all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127974	Mr. Pernar, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127975	What I'd like to say is that Live Wall really wouldn't be leading the politics that HDZ's leading. First of all, he would not allow the closure of the refinery, that's the first thing, and second thing, he would never go into the construction of a LNG terminal from which the Republic of Croatia has no use, but we are paying an enormous price for its construction, and you will have to pay the citizens a higher price of gas ultimately, and you are announcing to citizens more expensive gas, which is HDZ policy, gatherings, shutting down production and entering invaluable projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127976	Mr. Minister, yes, yes, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127977	Dear Representative Pernar, thank you very much for your replica. So, what leads to the construction of LNG terminal on the island of Krk is the security of supply for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I am sure that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and our voters will recognize and appreciate it tomorrow. So security of supply as such for this HDZ government has no alternative. The fact that you and your political option have different plans and ideas, I can understand them, after all, it is your complete right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127978	Mr. Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127979	Thank you very much, Minister Djoric, so you're worried about the future. Yes, that future will certainly come, but you don't have to be scared in the sense that anything bad will happen. In fact, we want all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to be happy, including you and members of the HDZ, not just members of the Living Wall. We want all citizens to live in peace, to have a peaceful dream, but we also want the laws to apply equally to everyone. And in the case of INA, indeed, the HDZ and SDP governments, individuals among them have made certain irregularities in the process of conversion and privatisation, and we believe that these irregularities must be corrected. So we don't have any go tell personal animosities. We simply stand for the rule of law, we stand for the state of order, not the state of disorder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127980	Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127981	Dear Mr. Bunjac, all that you said a few minutes ago about the pay phone is completely contrary to what you're saying right now. So, why you advocate and the ideas that you promote often from a pay phone in the Croatian Parliament are far from order, they are far from the satisfaction of all Croatian citizens. Anarchy is not the order, believe me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127982	We're moving on with individual debates, Mr. Ivan Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127983	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I believe the first problem of our country is a lie, a lie that HDZ agents regularly pronounce. First of all, I'd like to go back to the very beginning of a lie as a phenomenon, and it's already in the book of Genesis, and then the devil is the one who tells the first lie. However, these things do not stop, and unfortunately after the book of Genesis continue not only to believe in lies but also actively tell lies and ultimately fall so under the influence of lies that Jesus tells them at one point that they have the devil for father because they lie in essence and that the devil is a liar and father of lies, or Jesus says that the cause of all lies is actually moral dishonesty, moral corruption, corruption of character. And what happens with HDZ, HDZ lies to the Croatian public, Plenkovic lied, Plenkovic said we will buy back the INU, buy back the INU, whether Plenkovic or HDZ did anything to buy back the INU yes or no, the answer is negative, he did not lie. Then comes the second lie, Minister of State Property Maric says he will not say HDZ if he gets the elections to allow the refinery to be closed, rather I will stop dealing with politics than allow it. Plenkovic also said that he would not allow the closure of the refinery, so we finally see what happened, the citizens of Sisak know. He would also like to point out a contract that gives MOL management rights to INO even though MOL does not have most shares, so MOL is not a majority shareholder, and yet has management rights. Why, for example, did Croatia not make a contract in which we as a minority shareholder, why shouldn't we have management rights, why is the contract for our damage and for the benefit of MOL? Here's what I'm asking you to ask yourself is whether a government that claims to protect national interests and gives management rights to someone who doesn't have majority property is really protecting national interest or another lie in a long line of lies. I repeat lying isn't a new phenomenon, it's happened throughout history, it's clear that it's something that's not right that's morally freakish. However, I would like to point out certain provisions of this law, says Article 10a. The first item you are introducing, while the Republic of Croatia owns one or more INE shares, the Government may elect two representatives of the Republic of Croatia to attend meetings of the company's without a vote, without the right to vote. You know what that is? I would call it voyeurism where you watch what others do, and you don't participate in it yourself, now you can claim you don't have voyeur tendencies, but from what I see here, it seems to me that you want to watch what happens without taking part in that shop, and I think this item is ridiculous and unserious. So what, it's like we have MPs here who can debate, and I can't decide what, what, what kind of MPs, these MPs obviously don't have any power would dare say they're not as potent as they won't be members of the management of the INE society that Croatia will name in this way. The second thing, the provisions of the laws that are being amended are interesting, but now there is no longer a need for the consent of the Croatian state, before it existed, it was written by law while Croatia owns 25% or more shares only with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia INA can make legal transactions or take actions related to sales, the joint investment of which is worth 25% of the assets of the INA, no more. And what exactly is the point of the whole story? The point of the whole story is that Brussels has led us to so-called The neoliberal euthanasia and in this process of euthanizing our country and people is aimed at privatizing all so-called. State property, of course later on, they will go private through real estate tax. But I'd like to explain this to people who aren't aware of it, the state has no place to repay the loans that are due, it can only return them by taking new loans, and it's clear that the state is de facto already in a state of bankruptcy and the question is why the creditors would give the state new loans if it's clear that the state and the old ones have nowhere to go without endless borrowing. Would you, Mr. Radin, as chairman, have any MP here been lending loans to anyone he knows has no place to return it from or that only with the taking of a new loan can he return it and that new one, of course, has no place to return from and will he raise another one, another one, another one? I believe that none of you would do it, nor anyone who's watching us. They'd say it's a crazy thing, as soon as you see that someone has nowhere to come back from, that they're always in debt, that they're coming back, it's immediately clear to you that it's a crazy story. However, we are convinced that creditors who maintain such a scheme and political authority, I would say a puppet who keeps it that they are doing it for our own good and that creditors do not have so-called. The favors they seek. I personally believe that creditors who credit the state are blackmailing the state and asking it for something in return. And what is it that creditors seek in return? So clear are the World Bank's instructions for the IMF and the EU, so-called Threes to be done. And there is a need to privatise state property, to privatise HEP, to privatise highways, to privatise INA. You say we are in line with EU laws. You know what's gonna happen? One day, the EU law will come to you, for example, to be an electricity industry, so that the electricity supply must be privatised, that the state cannot own the production or distribution of electricity. It's only a matter of a moment. And then you'll come back here and you'll tell us, you know, we know that people may disagree with that, we know that, even we don't agree, but the EU is asking us to do this, and in fact these EU directives are some kind of new deity everyone worships, that everyone has to do and no one can dispute. I would dare say that the relationship of the current government that I personally consider to be a puppet against Brussels is idolatry that you actually, that you serve Brussels, that you worship Brussels, that you do all that Brussels asks of you regardless of whether it's for good or not for our country's sake. I can tell you ladies and gentlemen one thing for sure, the idolaters will not share in the kingdom of God. And by your behavior, you're actually pushing yourself into ruin, which isn't such a problem if you don't push everyone else into ruin. Unfortunately, by your behavior, you lead our entire country to ruin and the people to disappear. We can all observe these two processes. You told us that we in the EU will co-determine, that we will sit at the great table and make decisions together. However, I see that when these decisions were made to amend the INA Privatisation Act that we were either not sitting at that table or we were not asked. It is my assumption that nothing has been asked of us because we in the EU are not deciding anything, we are in a semitronic and humiliating relationship. I call on the Croatian people to open their eyes and see what direction the puppet government managed by Brussels and Washington leads them and to wonder if it is also in his interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127984	Mr. Zekanovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127985	Dear counterpart Pernar, I agree with you in this critical regard or in relation to the EU and I have already respected the minister and pointed out that the problem of this law, which is exclusively the transposition of the EU acquis into Croatian legislation which we do not have any influence on. So today we unfortunately have less and less influence, we as the Croatian Parliament influences Croatian laws and literally prescribe EU laws and so on. It was simply at the moment we joined the EU that we were not told. I didn't know that I had to admit it. And I believe that those two-thirds of Croatian citizens who circled for the EU did not know there, which means that fact. So that in due course, we, and this is some EU intensity, will coordinate all EU legislation with each other, but not according to what would suit us, but according to what corresponds to the big players, I will first say to Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127986	Mr. Pernar's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127987	Dear Mr. Zekanovic, you pointed out the central thought, which is that in Brussels we don't decide anything on the one hand, and on the other hand you pointed out what Dubravka Shuica recently said on television that even two-thirds of the laws we bring here are not coming from us but from Brussels, we just prescribe them by emergency procedure. Such a relationship with the legislative body deprives, in fact, the Croatian people of power, because according to the Constitution, it should be the people who have authority and from which the choice of their representatives gives rise. Unfortunately, as we see in this case, accepting or not accepting the law cannot affect even when it is clear that it is contrary to our interests. I call on the Croatian people to rise against the service authorities and to support in the elections those options that fight against the colonization of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127988	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Bacic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Thus, during the morning and in its opening statement, the minister announced that the reasons for the fact that the Republic of Croatia is also going to this Assembly to amend the INA Privatisation Act. It is clear which reasons are given that the Commission has brought an action to the European Court of Justice requesting that certain provisions of the existing law adopted in 2002 be amended because they violate a market approach which is one of the principles of action of the European Union. Afterwards, following the application, I would say a salva charge, that these amendments to the Law are actually being made to the strategic partner, in order to make it easier to control the INA, and that it accuses the Government and the Ministry that it is, in fact, agreeing to the MOL in its further participation in the management of the INA. In 2002, then the ruling majority of the government of Ivica Racan, we made a proposal for a law that was then passed in the Parliament. At that time, the 4th article prescribed certain possibilities, i.e. the way in which INA was privatised until its entry into the European Union, the descent of the Republic of Croatia to a share of 25% + 1 shares, which thank God did not happen, we know that today in 2019 the Republic of Croatia has 45 almost, 44.8% of the shares of the INA, but in Article 10, certain powers of the Republic of Croatia are prescribed, which reflect its share owned by the INA. When we change this article today on the 10th, and when we introduce a new Article 10a today, I can safely argue that no right of the Republic of Croatia that has, I say, 44.8% of the shares is suspended when it comes to the business of the INA, when it comes to acquisition of shares by the strategic partner. Namely, when it is claimed that this contract, I apologize, by this Law, allows MOL to acquire shares without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, that, in the meantime, according to the existing law which it has kept, it protected the Republic of Croatia, MOL came to 49.1% of the shares. How's that? How is it that, how could he acquire something that the Law had hindered him? Only by this law, only by this law, by altering... Article 10 is a prescribed procedure which is in line with the legal acquis of the European Union, a procedure has been laid down that the acquirer of shares may cross 50% and in which case it must contribute, which project, which plan, which document to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to indicate whether it is in line with, with the strategic interests of the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to the energy sector, but also when it comes to regular energy supply. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, with Article 10a, the Republic of Croatia or the Government, by introducing, amending Article 10a and introducing Article 10a, gives itself the opportunity to treat the strategic partner in a way that protects the fundamental interest of the Republic of Croatia, namely, that INA continues to function as a vertically integrated company and that it neatly supplies Croatia's energy as defined by the Law itself, and as defined by the Inter-Partician, Inter-Partic Treaty. I remember that on many occasions here in this Assembly was attacked by this inter-communicative contract between MOL and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Today, today I hear a completely different, second echo and second reflection on this, on this contract, today this contract is a kind of brake that we hold so that we can continue to manage, and be together with MOL a unique partner in INA management, because I will remind you that MOL is the owner of 49%, and that the Republic is the owner, Croatia 44.8%. When making decisions, when making decisions in the Assembly, in accordance with the Law on Commercial Companies for a significant number, almost all decisions, almost all decisions concerning the annual business of the company, they are made by the majority of the present. In the event that not all 100 % of the votes and shareholders are present at the INA Assembly, without any partner contract that is, the Intermediate Contract is a kind of partner contract based on the Law on Mandatory Relations, the MOL can freely choose the Supervisory Board as a whole and may be free to choose everything, based on... from the Supervisory Board, I am all members of the Board without asking Croatia what it thinks, which is the owner of 45%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, if it had not been for this intermediate contract, which was based on the 2002 Law, and under that Law it was created, it was only in 2009 when the MOL came to 47.8% changed that contract which was in line with the new ownership structure in INA, which, by the way, came from the 2002 Law which did not bring it to HDZ, then... I'll be happy to answer every question. [[Intruder Gordan Maras: The speaker cannot be heard.]] What's the stock? ... [[Intruder Gordan Maras: The speaker is not heard.]] [[Intruder Gordan Maras: The speaker cannot be heard.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127990	Please. Please, Mr. Maras, Mr. Maras, don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127991	... He sold his colleague Maras, if he sold them to you, who sold them to 25% plus 1 MOL and in what way, and did MOL then have privileged information that no other competitors had? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Did you ever ask yourself that? Why did the problem arise in 2003, that for 505 million dollars something was sold for which, why wasn't there in the contest? And why did MOL enter the tender from which 25% plus 1 shares were given, and he had rights that he could not acquire as a shareholder in a company that has a 25% plus 1 share? Did you ever ask yourself that? You ever wonder why that happened? Why in 2003 did MOL acquire management rights in INA that did not stem from its role in INA? Has that ever asked a question here in this House? So I wanted to tell you that this inter-sectoral contract protects the Republic of Croatia for as long as it has been Satanized here in the Parliament for years. Because if the contract were not to be attended by less than 97 or 96% of the shareholders at the INA Assembly, the INA would be fully managed by MOL without a member of the supervisory board from Croatia and without any member of the Croatian administration because it has a higher percentage of ownership in INA than the Republic of Croatia. And for all decisions made by the ordinary majority when the quorum was at the company's assembly, MOL could manage everything. And so this contract I've been saying for years has been Satanized today by the stick we're sticking to. And this contract, I hold, that this inter-participatory contract is also protected by the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, by the MOL, has a strong obligation to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, through its representatives on the Supervisory Board and through its representatives in the management of the Republic of Croatia, agrees with all the most important decisions prescribed by the Inter-Parties Treaty. And that's good. And that contract still needs to be in force and it won't be easy to break if, even if the MOL passes 50% of what it is, but what I'm going to repeat could also be under the current law. So this law, this law, when it's possible for MOL shares to be owned by MOL and over 50% doesn't give any new run-in to the MOL that he hasn't had so far. Because if that weren't the case, MOL wouldn't have climbed off those original 47s, that 49.1% he has. As far as this is concerned, they're flossulas that this law goes to MOLs to master INAs because this law does not bring him anything in this sense but that is far more important to him than it is to presuppose the procedure if it goes into the business that he can't do without the Secretary-General or without the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127992	Thank you very much. You have several replicas. The first line has Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127993	Thank you very much, colleague Bacic. The procedure initiated by the European Court of Justice against Croatia began in June 2017 and this was the announcement of the complaint and the Government then replied that in cooperation with the European Commission, it would find a solution to how the problem highlighted by the European Commission will be solved and that it was then clearly said to be in line with the overall stock relations in the INA and arbitration held by the INA and by the State with the INA and MOL respectively. How do you estimate that, once after two years, it is almost now going with an emergency procedure because it seems to me that there are other things behind this because the mere harmonisation with the EU could have happened so far since 2017 and that obviously something else is going on behind this and the agreement between Plenkovic and Orban in Hungary.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127994	Thank you very much. Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127995	My colleague Maras, I apologize to my colleague Mrsic, and apparently my colleague Maras raised his line, and I saw him, so that's, well, although I'm with him more in that replication. So I'm going to be honest with you here, and I have no reason to keep it a secret, the moment the INA Act was to be brought into line with the EU acquis was just a matter of the moment when we would do so. And we could stick our heads in the sand like an Noah and say it's none of our business. And I'm telling you that what we're doing is not against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that this obligation has now been thrown and put on more burdens to the government than before, because now only in the event of acquisition of shares, the Government has to express clearly why this acquisition allows or why it does not allow it. And so far, if we had put the veto under the current law, it would have been you, it would have fallen in the European Court, and we would have actually been here for our domestic needs drilling into a patriot's chest and we knew that whoever was in charge of it was going to tear it down. Excuse me. [[Intruder Radin: Mr. Bačić, time, unfortunately.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127996	I'm afraid we've been through a lot, but Mr. Maras will now, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127997	Thank you very much, Mr. Bacic, in your speech, you said a few things that don't quite make sense to each other like this. So you said first that MOL can do whatever it wants, that there's no inter-partisan contract, or between partners, and you said that it has 48% and that there's no such thing as being able to do whatever they want unless 100% of the people show up. And you didn't say that you were the one who made it possible for MOL to get that amount of stock. It means that if the Fund hadn't sold 7.8% of the shares would never have been in position. So you were in that government that allowed MOL to come to 48%. And the other thing you said, like this Interortarian contract, is protecting us. And tell us, Mr. Bačić, if it protects Croatia, what's the contract for? Which is why MOL then paid 10m euros to Sanader at those trials.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127998	Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u127999	... Croatia and still paid us for it, not for us, but for the former prime minister [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to protect Croatia. [[- Intruder Radin. Thank you very much, thank you, Mr. Maras, thank you.]] They still gave it to him. Here you go. You did a good job. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128000	Mr. Bacic, please respond, Mr. Bacic. Mr. Bacic, please. ... Turn it on, turn it on, turn it on. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128001	... Times because I obviously meant that Mr. Maras as a former minister and economy or small entrepreneurship knows how companies operate in accordance with the Company Act. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, then read it so that I don't waste my time on the replica that one who's 49 can easily get 50% of the management rights in the congregation without asking anyone who has 47. Read it and take a look. As for that, I said the Intermediate Treaty protects the interests of the Republic of Croatia so that's exactly what wouldn't have happened to him. And how did the MOL come, that's what you're asking me, so ask yourself, dear God, and ask the SDP? Why MOL, why MOL was the most favourable bidder in the competition in 2003, got 25% plus one and then began to manage INO much more than his bet this allows [[Intruder: Thank you.]] as shareholder [[Intruder: Thank you.]] which was twice as small as the Republic of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128002	Mr. Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128003	Comrade Bacic, a few questions. So Prime Minister 2018 is in August MOL will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak. After that in 2017, on Christmas, Croatia will become the owner of INE, we have a statement I will repeat it to you, I am glad that here the minister who says that both the refinery and the winding-up will be, we have a statement from the minister of valid, current Minister Marić, who simply claims the opposite, means one minister speaks one thing and the other, so listen, "Clearly and publicly we will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak because of the importance of the Croatian economy and the importance of this region, we will rather stop dealing with politics than allow closure." Here, I have said this, so it would be good for Minister Maric, Minister of Energy to do this to Mr Maric as he said to our minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128004	So much for the ventriloquists, huh? Mr. Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128005	Vice President, my colleague Bulj, this swearing to the honorable pioneering word you've been telling us all day I'll read to you maybe you know it. "On the other hand, if the Most Independent Lists are unilaterally joined by a coalition or coalition with a party who has managed Croatia over the past 10 years and has made it possible for the majority in the Croatian Parliament, I guarantee that I will resign as president of the Independent Lists and put my possible parliamentary mandate at the disposal of the Most." Therefore, you can see that your strange path, roads, how strange the paths of the President of the Most Mr. God Petrov. I repeat, so the prime minister said he would try to get the INA back into Croatian hands and the job was not completed by his colleague, Col. Bulj. The job has not been completed, Croatia has not given up what the prime minister said, we are in a process to realize the process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128006	Thank you very much. We have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure from the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128007	So it's clear that what counterpart Bacic, article 238, is clear that what counterpart Bacic quoted has nothing to do with the subject, but when he already said it, I'll tell him this, you didn't get most of it in the Croatian Parliament because for the first time Croatia had a non-party prime minister that you destroyed because you didn't have the authority you wanted, filled out a public note statement, which means that it tried on this side is from the former prime minister Milanovica push that it has been broken, it has not been broken [[Intruder: Thank you, time.]] You didn't get power because if you had, you wouldn't have destroyed the party prime minister, you didn't get most of it. [[Intruder: Mr. Bulj, breach of the Rules of Procedure.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128008	Yes, and now he has Mr. Bull's injury to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128009	In 238, I asked, you broke my colleague Bačić's article, I asked you questions about Prime Minister Plenkovic's statements, that the refinery would never be in MOL's hands, and that neither INA would be shut down, and as far as INA and MOL were concerned, you were forced to go to the polls, which is why it went to the polls. First, the case.../incomprehensible/... Joze Petrovic a personal friend of Sanader's [[Time, thank you very much, Mr. Bull.]] You know that, and then you were Minister of the Sanader Times. [[Intruder: Mr. Bulj.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128010	Mr. Bulj, let me now give you and Mr. Grumoa what doesn't matter what you've answered, what you've given.../incomprehensible/... if I'm giving you a breach of the Rules of Procedure, if I'm giving you a warning you can't speak anymore, and I won't do it. I'll give the word to Mr. Lenart, who asked for a replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128011	I thank the Honorable Vice President, only I wonder why I got the warning, obviously I'm less valuable in this assembly, so here's thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128012	Don't ask why you didn't get it. Why didn't you get another question, why didn't you get another one? Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128013	Why didn't I get another one?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128014	Time, time will give you more time, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128015	My colleague Bačić, here you are today saying that Croatia continues to operate along with MOL with INA, right? And I ask you when Croatia manages along with MOL INA, which is why we allowed the closure of the Sisak refinery when many experts say that many products of the Sisak refinery are more profitable than they are for Rijeka. Let's explain to the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, the citizens of Sisak, which is why Croatia closes its refinery, and we will get products from Hungary because from Sisak the pipeline from the tank goes to Hungary, that's why we closed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128016	Mr. Bacic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128017	I thank the Vice President, my colleague Lenart and I am dissatisfied and would rather and appeal not to close the Sisak refinery. For 4 years, as chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment of the Croatian Parliament, I held 10 thematic sessions where I asked then ministers in the government and Deputy Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to do everything possible to ensure that the Sisak refinery goes into reconstruction and modernisation, unfortunately it did not happen, I am sorry. I'm also about not to close the Uljanik, you know, I'm about not to lock up a lot of losers and companies in Croatia who are at the border of the strike. However, any decision based on the heart may not be the end of the business-based cost of high-money taxpayers, for example, but now it costs us about 3 billion kuna oil, not to mention the previous ones, the previous subsidies of '10. on here in Croatian shipbuilding So I agree with you. [[Intruder: Time.]] And I'm against closing the refinery, but one thing I'd like to do is show financial indicators and economic governance, so we'll wait. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Let's see if that happens and how the workers will be taken care of if that happens. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128018	Thank you very much, Mr. Djakic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128019	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so my colleague Bacicu is always astounding that no one accepts what happened at the very beginning of the privatisation of INA. What's 25 plus 1 shares? What are the management rights? And what you clearly and unequivocally explained, what does an inter-share contract bring? These are things that simply our opposition in HS does not want to hear, do not regret to hear what happened, just as it does not want to understand what in these few articles of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of INA clearly obliges the Government, but also the partner Hungarian MOL what power will and will not power in the future. I think you've made it clear that you've been unequivocal in all the presentations that you've given, and I'd like to point out that 7% of the defence shares haven't changed the MOL ownership ratio that the board of directors brought with the government's consent. has not changed any relationship in MOL's management rights... [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128020	Mr. Djakic, thank you. Mr. Bačić, here you are, oh, excuse me, here you are, a violation of Mr. Grmo's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128021	Injury. 238, I have to react to these lies, we are aware of what the SDP Government has done, but we are also aware that you were on the board of directors, so the members are Josip Djakić, Petar Lovrić, Đuro Dečak, Tomislav Mercep, Miljenko Pavalaković, Ivan Posilović, you voted, so this and you are responsible because now, so, INA in Hungarian hands, you have your cheeks here to report, you are responsible you have [[Intruder: Mr. Djakić is]] face the deception of the Croatian public. [[Employment: Injury of Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128022	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128023	Mr. Vice President, he's hurt. 238. A fellow Bolt who always uses the violation of the Rules of Procedure to attack others, insults and demeans. I am proud to be a member and to be a member of the board of directors, the Croatian Defence Fund, because we did the best we could then, we got and we achieved the highest price, we paid all those who were the bearers of the purchase of their shares in the fund. You're ashamed of your obligations you've signed, ashamed of your firm, the Grizzly you're with. wanted to launder money and kidnap Croatian citizens [[Intruder: Thank you]] It's your shame. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128024	Thank you very much. I am obliged to give two injuries to the Businessmen, Mr. Grumoy and Mr. Djakic because it was a replica. And now, Mr. Maras, if he will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128025	I just wanted to...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128026	No, no, what article?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128027	Well, yes, but I have to say, 238, because Mr. Djakic said one inaccuracy, so when you subtract 48-7 you get 41, which is less than 44, so the fact is, not what he said, but that when he sold the shares, as a member of the trust's board to allow the Hungarians to take control.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128028	Art. 238 doesn't talk about inaccuracies, doesn't talk about inaccuracies, you also have a warning, I'm sorry. No, no, let's move on, forgive me, I mean if you get another warning, I mean, listen, whatever you want, I can give you a word, whatever you want, if the replica you'll get another warning, then let's move on, Mr. Bull, don't wait, answer the line, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128029	Thank you, Vice President. Col. Djakić, you were right, so there were words and it was true that in a competition based on the 2002 law by the SDP government, the most favourable bidder did not have the right to benefit from the tender after he had paid 505 million dollars, and among other things, that he had 2 members of the administration and is one in charge of finance, the other member was in charge of public procurement and it was known that what came out of the contract between the government and MOL was not contained in the basic competition and it speaks enough about how the SDP then spent the privatisation of INA.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128030	To return to the moment, I have given three injuries to the Rules of Procedure now, Mr. Grumoji, Mr., two warnings about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Grumoji, Mr. Djakic and Mr. Maras. I'm sorry, we're moving on, I'm sorry, because there's no harm in the Rules of Procedure's injuries to turn into replicas, I'm sorry, but they're not replicas. Mrs. Devereaux. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic. Sir, I'm sorry, Mr. Gordan Maras, though. No, there's no replica, individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128031	Replic or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128032	Individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128033	Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You have slightly different criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128034	I didn't tolerate anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128035	I'd like you to level the criteria a little bit, but good, because then people take it and don't think about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128036	Let's not argue, please, let's go. Discuss the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128037	Well, mostly we have one topic here that is extremely important for our citizens, we have here an exact example of inconsistency, I would say, fraud of voters, damage to the economic interest of the Republic of Croatia and conversion in some situations where you almost amazingly listen to words about the interests of the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia is constantly losing out of this relationship. So, says Mr. Bacic, an interorthic stock agreement protects the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia is constantly losing, the INA is closing jobs, less derivatives, etc., so these are illogical things. On the other hand, the invitation to 2002 and then the change of the 2009 Ort or Inter-Party Treaty say, e, only then is the protection of the Republic of Croatia, then the question arises, which is why the former prime minister is being tried in the first place, which is why Hernadi is on the charge and we are asking him to be extradited from Hungary because, according to the court, there has been an exchange of EUR 10 million to sign exactly the contract that Mr. Bacic is saying he protected the Republic of Hungary. Then those who offer money at their own expense, who are not aware of what they are doing or the truth is completely different, are aware of what they are doing and know why they went in such a way as to try to come up with a contract that is essentially beneficial to them. And that's the whole problem and INA's taste around which nothing has been done for years and where it's evident and under suspicion the corrupt government has led to today's closure, closure of the refinery in Sisak, less production, and that we are in a situation where both Hungarians and suing and arbitration go to our harm where we will pay billions and billions of kunas that are being dragged, I would say, the time of the unfortunate government where the fellow Bačić and some, but now that he's been talking here, I have to absorb him. So we need to be aware of where the problem has arisen. It's amazing to hear here that Hungarians can do whatever they want with 48%, and we know who sold 7%, and a little while ago he boasted about it and his colleague Djakic, here's a very simple bill, 48 MOL – 7 Đ, it's like Djakic, is less than 44, what has RH. The simplest possible, my son, here, who is not in school today, knows that this is the third grade of elementary school, MOL 48-7 Đ, less than 44 HR, Croatia. So, simplistically if we hadn't sold those 7% shares, MOL could, according to ours, sing combats, do nothing, don't INA close, we wouldn't have a full supervisory board of our own, our people wouldn't be out of a job, but the problem is that we did it then. For what? I don't know, I may be able to answer those who made decisions at the time, colleagues Bacic, Djakic and others, but the fact is and we can't get away from it, that's the problem. And now Minister Coric here has to explain to us that nothing really changes, that the interest of the Republic of Croatia is the most possible, so how is the interest of the Republic of Croatia protected if we lose jobs and lose production of derivatives, how is it protected, in what way? Is there an agreement between Orban and Prime Minister Plenkovic on the side? We also don't know that, but maybe we should know, we want to know what interest the Republic of Croatia has that this law is changing this way and what will in the future, in which way will this lead to a better position of the Republic of Croatia? What it means is that Minister Coric tells us that they have to present some plans, so they presented and signed contracts to modernise the refineries in Sisak, Rijeka, etc. And they didn't do anything. Privatization, if we go back to that in 2003. When it was signed, the modernisation contracts were signed. Why, since 2003, when HDZ came into position until 2011, nothing was done, for 8 years, no modernisation has been made of the Rivers and all that the Hungarians took on when buying what Mr. Bacic said, buying 25% of the shares. It was also part of the INA investment obligation, market expansion plans across the former state, region, etc., but for 8 years, the HDZ government, Prime Minister Sanader, has done nothing about it. These are issues that have brought very difficult situations to date, and they can understand that it is hard to do much now, but in this way to twist the truth and the thesis, it is simply not moral, it is not allowed and should not be allowed in a civilized country where people keep their words and what they do. Prime Minister Plenkovic says two and a half years ago that we're going to buy INA, I almost fell off the chair when I heard it, because I realized that man is saying he's going to spend 15, 20 billion kuna on what? From where? And of course nothing has happened and will not happen, Prime Minister Plenkovic will not return INA to Croatian hands, we all know that here and should not be fooled and said that the Republic of Croatia will buy INA, he will not. At this point, the only thing we can do is protect our interest through defending MOL to realize the plans that are at the expense of our economy, primarily thinking about closing the refineries, to influence the prices of natural resources and the wealth that the Republic of Croatia has, that in this way we try to pressure the INA or MOL to work in the interest of what we want, and not what they want, and clearly what they want, they want to close production and only to treat the INA as their sales channel where they will place the derivatives that they have made who knows where. And that is the taste of this problem, and that is why we are here today, and that is why the Croatian interest in INA is not being defended for a long time and it is not possible to defend it. From the moment the contract was signed between the government, I remember who today was Polancec and Hernadi in a building in Vukovar, as if they did not know what kind of work, we see how this is pulling in, and where it has brought us all together, from that moment on, it is almost impossible to defend the INA. Lost time, lost money, lost jobs, soft access to the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic, and the only thing that surprises me, such a ease of promises that he cannot make, two and a half years ago, that he will buy INA and return it to Croatian hands. On the other hand, colleagues and colleagues, it is clear that we cannot support such a policy, it is clear that this and nothing to do with Europe, this is just a form for the sake of determining something that is badly cemented already in 2009, so unfortunately here, it is very difficult to fix things. What I propose to the Minister to take what opportunities he has and because he manages natural resources, which INA draws from Hungarians, that he tries to model, that he tries to use people who are there, among the INAs, there are, how many good memories some partners, i.e. spouses of the former vice president, are still sitting there, and the question is how they protect the Croatian interest and how they put themselves in this situation, to prevent INA from going in this direction. We have people there who are proposed by the contract by the Croatian side, which these people have made INA to be a better company today than it was yesterday and that Croatian workers benefit from it, that Sisak is benefiting from it. We have devastated this city and thousands and thousands of jobs have disappeared there, the government doesn't care at all about a city that was once the pride of industry, I would say to the Republic of Croatia. And on that side so much damage has been done, and I said, it's very difficult to take back time now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128038	Thank you, too. The first line has Mr. Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, I'm not saying that this contract is good today. That's what you're saying. That's what you claim, too, if I'm wrong. And you claim it's a shame. Why didn't you change it? Why didn't you come out of that contract as a member of the government? Which was the reason. Why are you not based on the Law on Mandatory Relations, said the contract is harmful to the Republic of Croatia and Croatia will come out of it. And no one would stop you from doing the procedure and how you get out of your partner's contracts behind the stock market. It's one thing, and the other thing, it's not true, it's not true and the Sisak refinery and the Rijeka refinery, the River is modernized, and it's not entirely yet... the day was under contract with MOL that it was obliged to reconstruct INA Rijeka and the first phase was also going from Sisak, in 2012 when you came to Sisak was no longer done in terms of modernisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And today ye weep of the crocodile's tears over Sisak, and ye should also strive for him to be reconstructed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128040	Thank you, sir, if you'll excuse the answer, Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128041	Thank you very much. Well, it's clear if you're following, and I believe you're following the news, you're reading the newspaper, it's been pending and court proceedings, and certain verdicts have been passed, and they've been annulled. So it's not possible to get out of something that doesn't have both sides' consent if that's what the contract says, unless it's proven to be done in a corrupt way. If that court had kept the verdict in part, it would have been possible to come out in that situation, after you signed it in 2009, it was no longer possible to get out of the whole procedure. And just before you spoke here, I'm not the only one who heard it, that contract is essentially a guarantee of Croatia, that it will remain protected. That's what we've all been listening to now, right here in yours, I'm going to take out your stenogram, so that's what you were saying, but once again I'm stressing, which is why someone would go to pay 10 million euros for their damage. So she's protecting the other side and then he's still offering some money to protect the other side. That doesn't make any sense, they saw their own interests, if that's what it was in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128042	Thank you, Mr. Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128043	Comrade Maras, you pointed out exactly the problem, which is, which is the 2009 transfer of management rights, because it's obviously a bad and unintelligent decision, which is nowhere to be said to do so, but after such a decision you can't go home, crying and saying I didn't want to, I didn't know, I didn't want to commit in this way. Obviously, what's signed is that it's there and it can't be changed that should be respected and the contracts are like that, when you sign them, then you have to respect them, even when they're at risk in person, and they were obviously at the expense of the Republic of Croatia. Now this amendment to the law, I think it's only going to do it, to do damage control, but I don't think that's the primary goal, but obviously it's some wonderful curtain of something that's going on right now, because there's no need for this law to be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128044	Thank you. Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128045	Thank you very much, it's clear there's a story in this, and I'm sorry to hear that story, the minister doesn't tell us here that we know why this law is really being passed. So it's not the EU's regulation, it's not the commitment we've taken, it's the easiest thing to say. So for everything we do, we should do defolt. There's a reason, and we'll probably see him soon. Unfortunately, he will be at the expense of our fellow citizens, and as you yourself said, there cannot be something useful for Croatia, if it has reduced several thousand jobs and if we have all allegedly sworn here, that we want INA to be stronger, and it is weak today. We heard several times today, statements by the minister, the state property of Maric, who said he would stop dealing with politics if the refinery in Sisak went out. Here, it went out, but that doesn't stop him and his other HDZ colleagues from continuing to do what they're doing and what they've been doing so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128046	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, Mr. Djakic has a replica now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128047	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maras, you claim that everything he did to HDZ is a shame and that the defense fund sold the shares of 7%. That I was a representative of the Croatian Assembly of the Committee on War Veterans in the Fund and I can say that 7% regardless of your mathematics that you want to implicate in the Croatian public, that it has achieved something that has actually enabled MOL a different management rights. You have defined in your contract 25 plus 1 exactly how you will manage, what you should do, what modernization to implement, you did not control it even when you signed, and later when you were in power, you did nothing specifically on what was to be done, follow the contract to remind you of what should be done with refineries as well as with all other segments of INE. 6.2% of the workers you don't mention who sold INE, and they got them by special privileges, that's what you forgot to say, what did that bring? 6.2% [[Intruder: Time.]] shares sold by workers. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128048	Thank you, Mr. Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128049	Look, I can't talk about the personal property of people, but you sold on behalf of politics, on behalf of politics, so we remember the statement and the former vice presidents at the time, so Prime Minister Kosor that he was in contact with the prime minister and that the government gave consent, that it should have been sold, so that's not the citizens who were employed in the INI, they can do whatever they want with their shares, but you sold 7% on behalf of the policy, and the MOL has 48% and that's not Maras's math, so there's no such thing, there's only mathematics, when you subtract 48 minus 7 you get 41, and 41 is less 44, and here I'm sure you'll all agree with me, do you agree that's true. So on that side, let's agree on at least the number so it's not complicated, if you hadn't sold 7% at this point Croatia would have more than MOL, very simple mathematics.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128050	Thank you very much. Let's move on with individual debates, now it's up to Mrs. Irena Petrijevcanin Vuksanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128051	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, respected ministers with an associate, here I will make my contribution to the debate will be factographic, we have a statement by Prime Minister Milanovic in 2014 that says so. "Prime Minister Milanovic said that the state will not be in debt for EUR 3 billion to buy INE shares from MOL, noting that MOL can freely dispose of its stake despite the fact that the previous SDP government sold the first 25% shares to MOL." Then, on the other hand, we have a statement by Prime Minister Plenkovic in 2017, who, unlike Prime Minister Milanovic, wants to protect national interests where he says this, once again we show our willingness to resolve this issue, we will continue the talks that require extensive and quality inputs from a number of experts to bring this complicated story to an end with a clear ownership structure and the role of the Croatian state to be dominant in the INI. On the same day, however, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijarto said in an interview with the Hungarian weekly that normal business co-operation is no longer possible, that it is politically unsustainable and that there is nothing left to do but end this co-operation. So, on the one hand, we have a SDP policy that has been factographically going since 2002, and this 2002 law is crucial and, of course, Croatia was not yet a member of the EU, but practically the first 25% of the INE shares were sold. The SDP government passed the law, under the law was also a HEP, and the HDZ government in 2010 singled the HEP out of the package, fortunately and therefore the law that we are now being apostropheeded here was adopted by the SDP government, and the law foresees that the INA is fully privatised, and that is how it is a fact. We can go further into fiction, so we have February 2017 where we have MOST's proposal how to solve the INU and the model that the MOST proposes is an initial offer, so that one quarter of HEP, now you hear one quarter of HEP here to stock up enough funds, and then we still have some other energy holding models, etc., that don't come from MOST and all these models are actually put on the table of what advice we know how it went. We have a few more suggestions, but now that I'm not wasting my time on it, I'll just say that's what we heard here in 2017. On 13 July, the European Commission actually decides to initiate the procedure against Croatia before the EU Court of Justice because Croatia has not changed this law on the privatisation of INE, which gave the country a veto in key matters and of course that then this government reacted spotlessly and in fact wanting to be in constant contact with the European Commission and wanting to find a solution to this non-compliance that no previous government wanted to bring into line and we are, in fact, not in line with the European acquis, this is less important, but it is important that the national interests that were previously not protected should now be protected. And now we're talking about situations all the time, and we're not really talking about chronology in the whole context, but we're doing partial parts and then that's how we discuss it. What is important to say here, so why this article does not comply with the EU acquis. I said just before, because it's the legacy of this SDP privatisation law INE and already in 2003 when this first 25% package is sold we're practically in collegiate with that legal gain and then finally comes this famous 2009 which is now being talked about so much, where we have the situation as we have, so in 2009, we have a situation that 44.8% of INE shares have governments, and 49.1% has MOL. How did that happen? That's not why, so I'm not talking about the cause here, but we're talking about the consequences of inaction or someone's actions, which was also criminal responsibility. And what's important is to say, I don't know if anyone mentioned it, so the meaning of this amendment to the law isn't all this chronology, the meaning of the amendment to this law is, above all, thanks to this one article that's been disputed with that article 4 that's previously talked about quite the same thing from that 2002 law, first of all, harmonising with the European acquis, which doesn't have to be the most important but it's important to avoid the lawsuits. stopping existing lawsuits. And what's really most important and I'm counting the last one on purpose is to keep the infrastructure as energy-efficient as possible and it's not threatened by anything these amendments to the law. There's even a protection mechanism. Here is a series of inaccuracies, it is not true that Croatian law, that Croatian laws are prescribed... from the European acquis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Part of the law is harmonised, part of the law is completely autonomous but consistent with the European acquis. So the Croatian Parliament has lost its autonomy with nothing. It is not true that the minister is working against the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the contrary if we have listened to the factography then we understand that. And it's not true that the Resort Ministry does anything to these amendments to the law against the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so that's misinformation. And what bothers me very much is that the speaker has become practically a disinformation factory, that partial information is being extracted, and that they are then placed in such a way that this partially extracted information from the context exists as the truth without taking into account that it is the consequence of some previous facts. I therefore responsibly argue here and do not disinformation that the amendment of this Article 10 is an attempt to correct what can be corrected in view of all the already historically stated complex situations around INA and the situation with INA is to this extent problematic that not only do we have one arbitration procedure, we have two arbitration proceedings, one is ended unfortunately at the expense of Croatia, we have trials, we have a corruption charge that has ended. So relations with the Hungarian MOL are so complicated all these years that it's funny here to take out a Minister Maric's statement that he's not even a resolute minister in this portfolio, so he speaks in that sense, nor is he prime minister. So it's bringing this debate down to that extent to the trivial level that it's actually absurd. And what I'd like to say in the end, and maybe better and yes, maybe I shouldn't say, but I'll say, better not say... Yes, there will be opportunities for, there will be opportunities for replicas if you wish. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] About the Sisak Refinery, therefore the decision was made long ago and now I have this factography here, so the analysis has shown that the conversion of the Sisak Refinery into the logistic centre is the most economically profitable solution, of course that the MOL that has the right to that analysis is completely legitimate and it has these rights and unfortunately we cannot take that right away from it. And they concluded that by implementing themselves, they concluded that by implementing actually that conversion of the Sisak refinery they would have realised $93 million in cash flow over the next three years, which is compared to the current capacities where the refinery unfortunately works with 35% something that is more cost-effective to them as their owner at this point. Unfortunately, this is the situation and these are the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128052	Thank you, too. You have three lines. The first replica has Mr. Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128053	Thank you very much. The problem here, Mrs. Irene, is that this analysis that goes in favor of them because they do what they think is better for them, doesn't match in our interest. So that's one small problem all over this mess because there's 93m euros with 100 people and 60m euros with a thousand people working there. So you have to watch what's our interest, not what's MOL's interest. And I see that you've prepared yourself very well and studied the law, and I'm curious exactly how exactly Article 10 of this law can help with one measure to correct all these harmful consequences that we've had in recent years. Here's one, just give me an example, 'cause I really can't find it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128054	Thank you. Mrs. Vuksanovic, the Petrijevcan.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128055	I'll give you three not one, and that's what I just said earlier, so avoiding the lawsuit, that's stopping the existing ones. ... It's, it's, it's, you just haven't read the surfaces, you've read it, and it's usually a mistake to read it on the surface and access it on the surface, you're not systematic enough. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And with regard to the refinery, MOL again announced in October 2014 that they have excess refinery capacity in Europe and then called on INA to consolidate the refinery capacity. And what's going on? Those in the Italian Mantova have this logistics centre and now INA instead of two refineries in Rijeka and Sisak, with this one in Rijeka working with about 80% capacity and this one working with 30.35% of them, according to their assessment, would have to be consolidated into one or the logistic centre. Of course, it is in the interest of the government to protect as many workers as possible that it has shown for example some other losers, so this case will do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128056	Mr. coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128057	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I listened to your debate and you spoke of certain things declared by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, so I would now remind you of something the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia said 2 years ago and almost 2 months ago and that is what we will return to the INA for ownership of the Republic of Croatia. In the meantime, we haven't been able to find out anything about INA's return to ownership of the Republic of Croatia. The only concrete statement that went that way is the proposed modality of financing the venture, which is that we will privatise HEP to nationalise the INA. that we will privatise HEP to nationalise the INA. Of course it wasn't acceptable for anyone. Of course, at least that's what happens now unless you ask your colleagues from the CNS to give up. So I ask you, what is it, but what has this government done in two years and two months to make sure the Prime Minister's Christmas promise comes true? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128058	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128059	Unfortunately, you didn't listen to me very carefully. Is it as I said Prime Minister Milanovic said that MOL with its share can freely dispose of and that it is none of our business and it does not occur to us that we are returning what we should return. In contrast, Prime Minister Plenkovic demonstrates his will, shows motive, and shows the opportunities he presented in the way we all saw it. Now you will say that Prime Minister Plenkovic has betrayed the national interest, and Prime Minister Milanovic fought for those national interests, you probably won't say it, but we had the chance to hear it. So one is trying to fix what some previous governments and some previous stakeholders have done, and the other says it's none of our business and MOL has the right to have whatever it wants. Well, I think a smart man here is enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128060	And at the end of the line there is Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128061	Thank you very much. Comrade Petrijevcanin, so we listened to today's attempts at this government, and to this prime minister and minister, transferred some responsibility to all of the governments and ministers so far regarding the INA, in matters of the Refinery, etc. However, there are records, and we know who did what at what time. Here, Mr. Grbin is currently gone, but he has accused this government. We have a statement by Zoran Milanovic from 2014, we have a 2011 amendment to the INA Act, not to give it to the Russians, etc. They all promised something and put it in a drawer and put it in a drawer, because it's best not to do anything. And there's a story of the Bridge today that's being unskilled and talking and accusing everyone else. They knew what was going on there, and that's why we have statements from their ministers back then. But they had a member of the Board of Supervisors of a Poreč lawyer who was also a member of the National Council of Bridges who knows everything that you were talking about in that study. And today they're pretending to be ignorant and trying to accuse another. They knew exactly, and in time they announced what they would like to put on the back of this government today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128062	Thank you. Mrs. Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128063	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Boric, personally bothers me when this minister's systematic and responsible work or any minister who works in such a way tries to declare it a national interest. And on the other hand, he's trying to deceive the public that some others have done something more, and it's just the opposite. And what's important to say, so nobody mentioned it to MOL was the Sisak refinery in one statement compared to the failed athlete of ambitious parents. Here I read after they published an internal analysis and said they were not interested in how the issues of workers will be addressed, etc. MOL has a right to say that. However, the Croatian government, which has shown some concern and interest for the employees, has shown this and is now testifying to the amendment of this law. And I don't see what's at all controversial about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128064	We continue with individual debates. Mr. Lenart, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128065	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues, and we can be charged by morning with HDZ, SDP, Most or I don't know who. But the fact is that INA is no longer Croatian and that it looks like it will never be again. We can mention one prime minister, the other, the third. But the fact is that Evey Sanader is being tried for taking bribes about this problem and that's a fact. And it is also known that you give up your former presidents during the night of Sanader, Karamark, so you will give up Plenkovic in a few days only when the time comes. In nature, the rule is that big fish eat small fish. But in this case, the small fish ate 10 times the size of the fish because MOL was 10 times smaller than INA thanks to what Miro Bulj says to Hungarians INA is in Hungarian hands. The fact is that after Prime Minister Orban's last visit to Croatia, relations between Croatia and Hungary have warmed up and apparently our prime minister has promised something to give to the Hungarian prime minister to make these relations far better. In all of this, however, many jobs have disappeared. Energy independence has disappeared on hydrocarbon derivatives. The refinery in Sisak is a refinery such as Krešo Beljak mentioned since 1964, in 35 years it was built, working together with the company INA. But today, however, she no longer needs it. Why shouldn't I? You guys talking about the Refinery and you don't know where it is, you're talking casually. The Sisak refinery is located on a railway track near the Sava waterway. It is located on a hub where the transport route for crude oil is from Omis to Sisak, from Sisak to Hungary, from Sisak to Slavonski Brod, towards Novi Sad, Panchev, towards the Bosnian Ship and the refineries. By the refinery Sisak, there is a warehouse of JANAF that has 11 tanks of 500 thousand cubic metres or that it may be closer to the citizens than 500 million liters of crude oil in the warehouse. Besides, there's a Sisak refinery, and don't tell me it's invaluable on that part. The analyses you're reading that Irena's colleague was reading are MOL's analysis. But trade unions have proven in their analyses and professional analyses that some products in the Sisak Refinery are far more profitable than those in the Rijeka Refinery. And it just shuts down because of Hungarians because they don't like to have a refinery in Sisak that lasts for a long, long time. Who asks the citizens of Sisak what they think? Maybe they'll have cleaner air, that's a fact. But the city that had both the Iron and the Refinery has nothing left. I was driving around the refinery the other day. I often pass through there. There's silence in the Refinery. There's no production. It's already closed and it's meaningless to talk about whether it's going to be closed or not. Many were drilling, here is Minister Maric's mention. I listened to him personally when he said that. However, Mayor Ivo Žinic, the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina County, also drilling, will not allow the Sasak Rafineria to close. He even requested the 2015 Thematic Session of the County Assembly on the Refinery. He asked the Prime Minister to come there, then Milanovic was Prime Minister. But today, when his Prime Minister Plenkovic is in power, he does not want the opposition to organise a thematic session on the Refinery. What changed in three years? He can't, because you HDZ can't raise your voice about what your superiors are telling you. And the proof is that you must sign any statements that even in court you must not speak against what your party approves. The fault of the Refinery, so if it weren't for that, Sanader wouldn't be tried. That the Hungarians are not involved, so why don't they extradite Hernardi, but they protect both their people and their chieftain who's been wet in the purchase of INA. We can simply pass the law here as we bring a bunch of empty hollow laws that, unfortunately, don't change anything. Every law you propose and bring here and you must not vote on your conscience you call reforms, and reform is not law-making, but drastically changing relations in the sector. And I have not seen such a situation in the Republic of Croatia happen in the past three years. Unfortunately, we can moan here, talk, argue as much as we want. The Sisak Refinery is history. The jobs in Sisak are in the past. Sisak's shutting down like a city. Young people from the Republic of Croatia go to the world, to Europe where there is an orderly state, where they know clearly their rights. There is no rule of law in Croatia, no justice, no system works, so here we are in the Assembly some more equal to some less equal. We even have a minister here instead of coming here as a guest to answer the questions he's asked, giving political lectures and devalued representatives the way he likes that he's not the Minister of your work here, and I don't think it's right to be so proud. You didn't tell me that. So you laugh, yes, but you know how, every power lasts forever, so so so will yours. I watched Polancec and many other ministers, so they changed the story very quickly and changed their status. So don't think that someday your colleagues won't put you somewhere else. ... Oh, thank you very much. I don't want to be a minister. I don't want to be a minister. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I don't want to be a minister, here, and I'll never be a minister and I'll say it in public, so...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128066	Please give me a second and I'll extend. I'll extend it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128067	Here's another two minutes to wait.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128068	I have to say something, yes, yes. I have to say something.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128069	So be patient for another two minutes, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128070	Mr. Secretary. The Parliament has different rights than the executive. So it is possible, the right of counsel is different from the executive authority. I'm sorry, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128071	That's right. I thank you, Vice President. I know that I used to sit there instead of my minister, and I never thought of acting like this and telling MPs like the prime minister that they were little mice or I don't know what to call them otherwise. Unfortunately, this Parliament has collapsed to the lowest possible level and everything we are discussing is simply grief and grief because whatever we say here or everyone else who will be an opposition while this election law and relationship is in this House and while this is the influence of the Croatian Parliament on the adoption of the law as long as it is necessary to listen to whoever conducts the political commissioner, this Croatia will continue to fail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128072	Thank you very much. But you have five replicas, so you'll be able to continue. Mrs. Petrievcanin-Vuxanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128073	Thank you, dear colleague Lenart. I wasn't talking about analysis, I was talking about management rights, and that's a big difference. Billy, if the government owned a refinery in Sisak, do you think these people would end up somewhere they shouldn't end up? Well, I'm sure you wouldn't, but we're talking about the management rights of someone who isn't the Croatian government, and the Croatian government here can intervene in the way it intervenes. It takes two sides of the deal, you know that, but how are you going to arrange something with someone when that person on the other side of Budapest tells you that he wants to end this cooperation. So if there is a goodwill on the Croatian side, and there is what we see in this government's mandate, there is no goodwill on the other hand. So what do we do now? That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128074	Mr. Lenart's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128075	Comrade Irene, Maras has brought you up to 100 maths very easily with integers. This way you can tell why it's like that. The Hungarians are the bosses of the INA. The Hungarians are the bosses of the INA, whatever you say, and it will be what they say. If it weren't for that, you wouldn't have closed Rafinery Sisak, and you mentioned reading the MOL analysis. Read your phonogram. Read your phonogram. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128076	Mr. Panenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128077	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Lenart, what you are definitely seeing is a strategy being implemented. What these left-wing fellows did here on my left is essentially what some headlines say about what I said, but actually Hungarians gave direction, they gave enter tomorrow, right, in that enter tomorrow which, in that interior, should develop MOL groups and INA together with her, because what Hernadi said, with INA or without INA, INA doesn't have to exist, they just need content, they don't need a name, they don't need our vertically integrated company, they need what their resources need, what they need, everything else is enough for themselves. I hope that one day this Hernadi will come, and then here in front of this House, we'll apologize, we see that the minister, to him so lightly, I hope that Hernadi will come, apologize to our people, to our judiciary, to us all here and tell us here alone, standing at our disposal, we made mistakes, but we want to live in a common one environment. In this way, I'm afraid that we have a forced environment where this very picture of the Sisak refinery is the opportunity of what we have with them in our lives, we experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128078	Time. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Lenart, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128079	Thank you. My colleague Panenic, I appreciate Hungarians, regardless of how they got to INA in every way possible, they did not stop at anything to become INA owners. I also appreciate Orban fighting for his Hungarian people and everything he does, he does for their sake, but I'm sorry that we don't have such people fighting for the Croatian people instead of fighting for their party, we just don't get them to, but those who are, they're fighting for their party, they're fighting for their listeners, and they're fighting for their appetites to get their next election back, so here they are, and now they're proposing extras, that is, these bonus mandates to have absolute power. Tito's a little baby to them looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128080	Mr. Dobrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128081	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Lenart, I agree with your observations, and of course these analyses that were here are, which say that the Sisak refinery has no future, so they are always a reflection of the interest, so the client or the owner, and they are certainly well-designed, but from the MOL spectrum, which has large production capacity, and the excess product that wants to place, and use Sisak as an excellent position, so the distribution centre, so with large accommodation capacities and later distribution of these derivatives. And, of course, the Croatian side here needs to take care of its own interests and that they cannot be defined or shown through now INA manager.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128082	Answer, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128083	Thank you. So this is what you said well, so the excellent position for selling Hungarian products, because now they've turned INA into an INA trade, and the research has long been gone, as far as I can see, here I go several times past Ivanic, that the less and less pumps are pumping oil, it's obvious and the exploitation has fallen, so it's obviously waiting for someone to have a bigger share in that exploitation, so it's all pretty logical. It is also logical that they once told us that it must be privatized, that social property is not good and so, so, let's say Hrvatski Telekom buy Deutsche Telekom, which is mostly owned by the German state, with them not to be privatized, with us it has to, there's a good boss there, it's not here. It's also done everything here, certain Defense Associations have sold their shares, so it manipulates every possible way to convince the people it's inevitable and it has to. He doesn't have to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128084	Thank you. Mrs. Jurichev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128085	Thank you very much. Comrade Lenart, you've talked less about the Law, and more about calling HDZ and HDZ representatives, about how and who gives up, and who gives up, I think the least MPs and HSS can talk about who gives up who. You are the ones who gave up your coalition partners, disowning the government's decision in which you sat, in which your representatives sat, disowning the European Parliament you are sitting in, disowning your President, Mr. Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128086	Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128087	Oh, that's good. Well, of course we're giving up the parties in the European Parliament, the Pučka Party that hosted Vukica to be a member of the European People's Party, to give up this gentleman, not to mention the name that belonged to Istria and Dalmatia, and HDZ that we gave up, so you cheated on us every time we tried to do something good with you, you always used us, robbed us, devastated us. Now, the HSS is no longer a HDZ branch, it will never be in the future while we're here, and you won't be able to influence us anymore. And we'll say what we think, and we don't have our own political commissioner telling us on Friday what we have to squeeze here like you do. I'd like to see you vote here once on some law, so let's say this. Come on Friday, please don't vote on this law if you have the courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128088	Mr. Pranic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128089	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lenart, I absolutely agree with your exposure, especially in that segment when you said that the team from HDZ bus to the chest when they are in opposition, around jobs, around the refinery, but when they come to power, they certainly forget, they have short-term memory. Also likely in ten years, he will say that Ivo Sanader was not the HDZ prime minister, that he was not the HDZ president, and that he did not sell and hand over the INA to the Hungarians. As far as INA is concerned, we are discussing here today and there is the Minister of Environmental Protection, but here he should be a representative of the Hungarian team from MOL, because we all know 'who runs, who makes INA administration, that he answers one question in front of the Croatian Parliament, because from these discussions today, we are talking about something, and in fact it's not ours anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128090	Answer, Mr. Lenart.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128091	Here's the key to what you said, we're discussing something that isn't ours anymore, and this law, which, here and short, doesn't have much to discuss, and you also mentioned Ivo Sanader, so sometimes in the HDZ, Eve Sanader was afraid when he was at home in front of, in front of a blanket TV, they were shaking, and then they gave him up overnight. I think it's a message to Plenkovic that it's going to happen to him, too, because that's just the way it is in their party. I only regret that they never have a conscience when the laws are passed in the Croatian Parliament and when key laws for the Croatian people are passed for you because they simply don't care about the Croatian people. They care about their interests. And as we can see, the sale is a little more of what's left in Croatia. We will be left with only coat of arms, flag and anthem and it will be only obvious what will be Croatian property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128092	We're moving on with individual debates. Mr. Ivan Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome you, ministry representatives, MPs and respected citizens. For us in the party Change Croatia here is all clear. The proposal for a law on the privatisation of INA is the continuation of the biggest example and the worst example of political corruption in the Republic of Croatia, and in the follow-up to this speech because you know that I always speak argumentically because today the HDZs have been constantly saying that the opposition does not appear justified, you will get a bunch of arguments respected gentlemen. Why is this a painful point of Croatian new history and the practical political system in which we are located? All this time we have witnessed that the state allegedly defended national interests by not allowing the Hungarian side to take over the majority property in the INA. In 2002, he first sold INA to the SDP. In 2009, the second part of HDZ, and it shows how they worked in the air, cooperated, and now the HDZ finally wants to nail this whole story. In 2009, however, despite the fact that MOL failed to acquire majority ownership over 50% of the year's bouts. He is simply political corruption, we all know what this is about, and the former prime minister has come to management rights. Therefore, our representatives in the management of all these years of INAs are only acting, listening and they do not defend any national interests of the Republic of Croatia. That's how it is, here's an argument. 2011 means MOL tries all possible ways to get to the control package over 50% by committing a violation, breaking the Capital Market Act. At the time, the director of HANFA, Ante Samodol, submitted a criminal application, suspended trade on the Zagreb Stock Exchange and what it was about, as MOL offered far more prices than was traded on the stock market. A criminal report has been filed. But he ate a donkey wolf. And what do you want now? Now it is suddenly coming in 2016 when Prime Minister Plenkovic declares please to Christmas Eve when the truth is spoken he deceives the people and says we will return the INA to Croatian hands. Can you imagine? Why has it stopped since then? It is very clear here, we in the Party Change Croatia have no dilemmas. Here INA simply wants to sell this rest of the shares owned by the state and to simply get away with it. Why? The HDZ assessment is that due to arbitration procedures and political debates and negative climates, and now what citizens are hearing is that the HDZ will suffer terrible consequences in the elections and they have concluded that it is better to deliver it to the INA, they will get rid of it. Until the election, the people will forget about it, and nothing will happen to anyone. But dear citizens, don't forget this, don't forget this because these are the parties that have torn apart Croatia's industry, which of all types of exports most and most successfully exported our young people, our best workforce. You haven't learned this rhetoric from me, but I'll tell you now. And HDZ now that the government should simply bring them down with power with all the funds allowed. The SDP has no right to speak at all about INA what it says. Why? They held a candle to each other while working against Croatia's interests. Let's get rid of it, finally take one party and another party off the political scene of Croatia that our children have a way into the future. That's what this is about. And now for some arguments like you asked. INA was the pride of the economy and former Yugoslavia, as well as of Croatia, which was created in the 1990s. In the former state, she had 32,000 employees, accounting for 10% of Croatia's gross domestic product at the time. Where's INA today? Today, it has about 5% of Croatia's GDP alone, and there are no more than 4,000 workers working there. So it's all clear here. In a strategic way, the strategic partner has turned a first-rate firm into one so completely single company and therefore cannot be challenged. What are the other important arguments to make? What are the consequences of MOL's strategic partnership with INA? The first is the decline of INA, the destruction, the technological lagging, the layoff of workers, the reduction of production, the reduction of research and simple total marginalisation. Under B. What is the threat of Croatia's energy security? No more research and, on the other hand, less production and gas and oil on the domestic ground. And what's the third consequence? The development of political corruption. So I call upon you, first of all, to the opposition, to invite you who are in the ruling coalition, I call upon the citizens not to adopt this Law. If you adopt him, all of you who adopt him will be responsible for this tomorrow. I repeat, you will respond. There's one happy circumstance in this whole accident that has hit us, and that's that there's a provision in the Constitution that crime in conversion and privatisation doesn't go out of date. So you'll have to face it. What else is important to emphasize here? Look, I don't blame the Hungarian side at all. In business, a partner will try to do whatever's allowed, or they'll try something under the table if no one notices it. That's what the Hungarians tried. In that sense, they have achieved their goals. INA used to export over 120,000 tons of oil to Hungary, today it doesn't even export a liter of oil. They'll shut down our refineries. They'll make us completely dependent on oil and gas imports. This is the result of strategic cooperation without anyone telling them a word. Therefore, this example is indeed an issue, or rather a higher edition of economic national interests. And what do you do on the other hand, look here? This is your MOL property structure scheme, gentlemen. Look. Open the page will open immediately. You know how the Hungarians handled this? They have broadcast three types of shares of which one B series has preferential, meaning it has a special right to vote on certain issues and they have exactly 25.2%. MOL has some of its funds and they have about 51. 52% together with the state. The European Union does not press them, and you do not wonder why it does not print them and print us. Well, you don't care. So all you're interested in is clientelism and corruption. You've never been interested in development. Look what the Hungarians did there. It's not too late for us to do that, and no one can step on us and squeeze us. We will formally meet the criteria of the European directives, but no, you want to now. What's your plan? Your plan is to completely drive out the state and say fine in the bill, so even if the state remains 1%, 2% or one share will sit there, it must sit in the administration of our two men who won't decide anything but will listen. Why? I guess they'll let the government know that there's nothing else they can do about it. I don't know what to tell you. I don't want to invite you to some things from here, but these people are destroying Croatia continuously. We take them down until they definitely take us and our kids down completely. If anything needs to open the Goli Island, it is because of these economic crime and the party change Croatia will launch an economic lustration. I remind you again, take care of what you do. Take care of what you do. You don't get it. You've been raped. You've become boastful. You're going to run, you're going to check in, they're going to be coming soon, and the days of the people have come to a lot of everything. You're lost, you're born. You have no sense of what he's doing. You destroyed the industry. Export our best men, our youth abroad. I have nothing more to say to you than to bring you down as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128094	Replica. The replica was sought by Mr. Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128095	Dear colleague Lovrinović, I'm so glad to hear from you. So, the key problem is this very legal gain, or that absolutely all the laws of the European Union are literally prescribed in Croatia. And here's what actually hurts and bothers me. And I would even say that this is the key information that we didn't know at the time of entering the European Union. We were talking about travel, we were talking about other Benefits. We were afraid that the pensioners would not have pensions, and no one told us that soon we will have the full same legislation that Germany has that does not correspond to Croatia, does not correspond exactly to Germany. So in this context, the same thing that is being done today actually corresponds to that greatest player of the European Union or to the greatest players. And I'm sorry that in fact all those in position here, and this law is going to be passed because it has to be passed. So don't defend him. Stop nice and let it go. Vote. Don't defend him because you have no reason to.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128096	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128097	Dear counterpart Zekanovic, the ruling coalition will each time abuse the EU's acquisitions Syntagma when it is necessary and wants to do this dirty work. We have two gains here. One is so-called. the EU acquis, and the second is the criminal gain of HDZ and trading partners. It's not working out with each other, so I repeat what I was showing earlier that MOL had smartly solved his country so that no one could object to him that they weren't gains. This contract may exclude any provision on any veto right to this, to that. This is resolved by different types of shares with voting rights, without voting rights, etc. Don't make us monkeys. Don't treat us like idiots here. Don't be boastful because soon there will come a moment when you will simply be confused from the political scene.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128098	Let's move on with the debates. It's Mr. Vlaho Orepic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128099	The Honorable Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is understandable why in this debate today there are so many bile, both anger and likely subjective exposure. I will try to bring the debate into a completely different context or, specifically, about what it is. But here's the short word that we know what we're talking about. In 1990, 34 thousand workers, 13 companies, retail research around the world, Syria, oil fields, 200 billion kunas worth, 300% stronger than MOL at the time of purchase, 2 refineries, 800 petrol stations, 12 concession fields and the value of MOL after entering with 505 million dollars just increased by 623%. I like to speak in numbers to understand this subject. So I would like the HDZ and the SDP to really stop talking about responsibility because their shared responsibility is in all this. I don't want to go down to the level of betrayal of national interests because it's hard to say it to anyone, and I think we need to cultivate a little bit what we're doing here, but Mr. HDZ, you've made a mistake, you've failed with regard to INA. And now we're actually going to the problem here in this case I want to trouble two things, which is the very procedure of passing this law and the content of what it makes up these changes. The first thing I want to point out is that unusual and unusual e-consultation has been reduced from the usual 30 and recommended 30 days to 14 days without reason. The second thing I want to point out is this haste procedure, and I know that haste procedure will be justified in Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, however, I would also like to make it clear that, in this way, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, as an implementing act, has been put above the law of the Republic of Croatia which speaks of the haste procedure of adoption which clearly states, only in exceptional situations where the reason for the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia etc., etc., laws are adopted by haste procedure. So, just this part that talks about all of this points to one destructive behavior, and even in the event of a good will to solve something, some problem here solves simply, and that you have good intentions, behavior in relation to the procedure itself, destructively and does not give us confidence, or gives us a need to be careful or not to believe in good intentions. I simply can't understand, I would really like to get an answer as to why we're going into an emergency procedure, why the opposition isn't allowed to simply discuss such an extremely important law and we see that we are particularly sensitive to such value systems, means why we deny it when there's simply no formal or any other reason. As far as content is concerned, it is sufficient to say that veto law is replaced with two members who can attend a member of the administration and have no meaning or no right to vote. If I don't talk about a previous impact assessment that says there are no consequences to this law at all, nor will it have any consequences, here I'm only interested in the social benefits of people who lose their jobs, whether these consequences are included in the process of this impact assessment. Also, this impact on the budget if there is a sale of the rest of the shares and, for example, if the head office of the firm moves beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, the consequences of the budget will also be problematic. But what I want to draw attention to, which I have drawn attention to in the replica, which is this famous article 2. The constitution and please just here it is very important that you accompany me here, Mr. Boric, here I would like the minister to listen to these things here I would like to see. So we are talking about Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, please, Ministers, means that Article 10 on the INI Act which we are now amending because Article 69 is pressed and eats 63 and 49. The Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, OK, we need to coordinate. And it says in Article 10. In order to protect and protect the interests and security of the Republic of Croatia, the INI Act stipulates that in order to maintain ownership rights in a part of society, we define it as some kind of national interest. LNG, the LNG Act, originates in the same way, so it is based on Article 2. The Constitution referred to in this Article goes to Article 6 on LNG, which states that LNG is of strategic importance for the Republic of Croatia, and states, in order to preserve security of natural gas supply, the interest of the Republic of Croatia is to ensure the implementation of the terminal project for the gas in question, etc. So what we have here is a change of law under the pressure of the EU's operating contract, and we're building LNG under the same law. Are we going to sell LNG for a certain period of time under the same conditions? Here, so what's very important at this point is to point out, and these are the court proceedings that are going on and we're changing the law at this point, changing the conditions in relation to the ongoing court proceedings. Mr. Minister, I suggest you return to the regular procedure of this law, because there is no reasonable reason to go to an emergency procedure. In this way, you will show respect for Croatian citizens and will thus make it easier for us to reach the goal, the common goal, that Croatia does not pay for the penalty, etc., resulting from the obligation of our EU membership. Yes, the law, I suggest that the law not be passed until we adopt the energy strategy of the Republic of Croatia, because according to this energy strategy that we do not have at this moment, we cannot even know where the position of the INE is as such. Whether she's interested in the Republic of Croatia or not, I speak of national interest. So I guess we should define the strategy first, based on the strategy of the OK INA word we need not give or we don't need to sell everything. And the next thing I want to point out is this is especially so long as these legal proceedings are legal, that there is simply no need to rush because we always have a reason and justification for the EU that there are simple court proceedings in progress and due to the judicial proceedings we will not change the conditions that apply directly to them. In this way, regardless of possible and good intentions, good standards that should be broken, let's say the political bonton that should exist, some kind of relationship that should be cultural, entrenched in this high house. This all points to the definition of something called hooliganism, so let's not let, let's not let this law and any of the future laws be political hooliganism, and at this point in this way, in breach of the adoption procedure, it is, in the same way as entering election processes with 150 thousand fictitious residences, it is pure hooliganism politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128100	We, yes, have one replica first. Mr. Misic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128101	Thank you, Vice President. I heard from your presentation that INA was much stronger than MOL, which we know and that it is, unfortunately all Governments so far, I'd say gamblers were acting, selling and not keeping an account, and we know since when there's INA law, and when INA was first sold, one part of INA, when INA's management law was sold, and we know that. This government is not guilty of that part, but although it has announced the purchase of shares, which I think is good if it can be, knowing that everything has come to their attention at this very time of government, I speak from Agrokor, and then Uljanik, Petrochemy. Looking at what the Oilman made his losses and who signed the bank's guarantees, we could buy one complete one. We're wondering what we've been doing so far. We're looking from the present perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128102	Thank you. Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Orepic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128103	Dear Mr. Muscle, we know enough to know that I am all I'm saying, speaking from the position of protection of public good, number one. Number two, I'm not accusing the minister or anything, or this government of anything, the fact is that the HDZ government and the SDP government have brought us into this state that it is. I just can't understand it, and I can't understand it, and I can't accept that we're constantly breaking the procedure of passing the law again, so we're violating the democratic procedure, we're violating parliamentaryism in the Republic of Croatia. And the other thing, I am talking about the clear fact that one law is changed because of the pressure arising from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and that it is based on the same article, or the same system of values that arises from Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, LNG is being built. This is how when we invest our money, when the people invest their money, there will be privatisation again because we will have to do the same article, and under the same pressure sell or create conditions to sell LNG.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128104	Thank you. Thank you very much. Minister Tomislav Coric asked for a word on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128105	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, just for a little while, Orepic, let's not compare, or it's not possible to compare the content of the Privatisation and Supplement Act, the addition of the Privatisation Act of INA and the Law on the Construction of the Terminal for Intended Natural Gas. So, the fact that the current INA Privatisation Act is not in line with the European acquis, and that in some way, not in some way, but in its Article 10, and in fact affects freedom of movement of capital, is the fact that these amendments and additions to the Law have occurred, as I have announced in my opening statement and in fact repeatedly here today. As for the construction of a natural gas terminal, therefore, we are not talking about society here, about a company listed on the stock exchange, INA d.d. quotes on the stock exchange, and that is why, from the perspective of European legislation, this law is problematic, we are talking about a strategic interest project for the Republic of Croatia that has yet to be realised, and there is no cohesion there, i.e. I cannot compare these two legislative proposals, in any way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128106	Thank you, too. Mr. Orepic was looking for a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128107	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Here, I understand your position, but here I can't agree, because LNG also calls for Article 2. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in particular Article 6 and Article 4 in that Law on LNG, is it, and is it, is LNG a marketing category? If we can view it as a market category, and if at this point, here's only a little bit, if he's not at this moment in conflict with Articles 63 and 49 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, here's my apology, but here's my interpretation that he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128108	Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128109	So, no, it's not Mr. Nuts, is it? The thing is, it's not. Finally, the creation or construction of the Terminals and articles that define the overall project of the construction of the Terminal in the context of this Act are not in a conflict with the legal acquis of the European Union, is it not? So, we're talking about a whole new project that, which is just going on, that doesn't work at this point as a LNG terminal because it's not on the market, it's not on the market right now, the shares of LNG are not traded on the stock market, because LNG Croatia doesn't quote there, on the official capital market when we talk about INA, when we talk about INA, and it may never quote. Speaking of INA, we're talking about a company that has been present on the capital market for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128110	Now it's Mr. Hrvoje Zekanovic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128111	Dear Vice President, dear Minister, dear colleagues. Well, first of all, I would refer a little bit to the debate of colleagues of Orepic, is, well you said, is and if it is not right now, it will be soon, in fact, in accordance with the legislation of the European Union, i.e. the acquis of the European Union. And sooner or later, we will have to coordinate absolutely everything we have, whatever we have, or all the laws with the legal property of the European Union, so it doesn't matter whether it's right now, but it's definitely going to be, there's going to be a problem, or if the Germans see that there's a problem, they're going to point to it, not an objective problem, but a problem that suits their market. Here, I find it hard not to mention the refinery of Sisak which has been mentioned here several times, a refinery that doesn't work today, it actually expects more or less of the entire industry in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow, I here, although, here it is, I will mention and mention, I will mention Article 10, which here is actually controversial in particular of this Law, an article which, in that part of 10a, says that we will only have 2 observers without voting rights, and before they had the right to veto. However, I think it is a key problem for citizens to understand that we are systematically losing the industry in the Republic of Croatia, that all the industrial production we had left to the foreigners not to worry about it anymore and that we do not have it. And then I'm going to repeat the key thing that I've already said several times through replicas. Was the interest of the Republic of Croatia when we entered the European Union to align absolutely all laws with the acquis? And is it the interest of the Republic of Croatia to remove all obstacles to the free movement of capital, i.e. that German capital, French capital, Italian capital in Croatia can do whatever it wants? And that is the key problem, the problem where Croatia is slowly losing its sovereignty, losing its position, less and less Croatian, we are increasingly looking towards Brussels. More and more Brussels imposes its laws or we systematically lose sovereignty. I would say or mention here, in fact, one thing that is not directly related to the law, but the citizens will understand. It is precisely this loss of sovereignty through the loss of INA that you can see nicely in yesterday's and yesterday's statements by Antonio Tajani where he said something inadmissible and our politicians specifically prime minister instead of becoming sovereign and saying – enough, Croatian parliamentarians come to Croatia, we no longer have to deal with such a European Union until Antonio Tajani stands down – he has made a soft statement, and even some of my fellow MPs have defended him as little as possible. So the question is, what do we as a state want? Does it suit us as a state of perspective what we're doing? Is it in our interest that we fully free the Croatian market and allow the countries that produce it, and we do not produce to place our products on us? Or are we going to try to protect ourselves in some way? Great Britain was protected within that European Union, and we are not. We as a smaller partner that junior partner or the smallest partner we say come on, whatever you tell us we'll take over. Well, here I have to say, it's not just this law that's only one in a series of laws, there's a million of them. Let's talk about the economy here, so it's kind of understandable because the European Union was at first the European Economic Community. It's about finance, money, employment. But we from this European Union are also taking laws that are not only about the economy. We are taking the Marrakech Agreements, the Istanbul Conventions that had nothing to do with the European Union at the beginning that nobody was talking about. And now what it is, you're going to understand me especially from HDZ colleagues, the law is bad, and what INA says is not good. INA will be sold out. Maybe not right away. It'll be a while. INA won't exist anymore. He might change his name. It will not be owned by Croatia. But I'm amazed at my HDZ colleagues who know what I'm saying and defend this law. Well, I'd keep my mouth shut. I'd keep my mouth shut. You'd say okay. The law must be adopted by such an order comes from Brussels. The minister has to defend because Minister is my God, but I would keep my mouth shut. You wouldn't defend what's indefensible because I'm sure when you look in the mirror or when you sit down for coffee in the cafeteria here and you'll tell yourself and your colleagues – my people this isn't a good law. We deal with these INAs, we deal with these INAs regardless of what it is, it is truly perfectly in line with the acquis of the European Union, with European legal legislation all five, but it is not good for our country in the long term. And on the one hand, we have a dilemma if we're going to give another billion kunas to the Uljanik as a strategic industry, and here on the other hand, another strategic branch of industry, one branch of the economy that Croatia has been relying on for a long time, just like that. And then we say the law is good. And here's to let the citizens hear who's following this. We will no longer be entitled to veto Article 10a, but we will only have two observers without voting rights, without voting rights. But okay, and there are those articles that others say will have to be notified to the ministry, so the government, etc. which will say yes, yes, because that is how the order comes from the European Union. Okay, I wouldn't be long. I think I sent a clear message. An order came from the European Union. We'll coordinate here with the European acquis. However, it is a law that is not good for our people, which is not good for the state and no matter how much INA you ignore it soon will not be a Croatian company and you are guilty of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128112	Thank you very much. We have one replica. No, I don't. Okay. It's Mr. Peja Grbin's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. It's Mr. Nikola Grmoy's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. And it's Mr. Vlaovic's turn. He's got it, and don't lose your right.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128113	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague and colleague, the Honorable Ministers of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Privatization Act INA is ahead of us in an emergency procedure. What I said in the adoption of the agenda is that it is not right that this law goes into emergency procedure because we know that it is important for the Republic of Croatia to protect its national interests, and this law should go into regular procedure in two readings because we do not know what the reason for it to go into emergency procedure. And I said that if this law is a tool on the one hand to comply with European legislation and it should be a tool for the Republic of Croatia to protect its national interests and that we have the opportunity to do what Prime Minister Plenkovic has promised us to come into the ownership of the INA, then the HSS will also vote in favour of the law. However, from all this visible today, it is certain that we will have even less management rights because, by amending Article 10, we are losing our veto right, and we have the possibility as Article 10 says, and we can choose two representatives in the management of the INA without the right to vote. So I propose that we change this "we can" to "the government will, or the Croatian Parliament will elect two representatives in the management of the INA". Why the Croatian Parliament? So it's precisely that the Croatian public sees what people are, what competences, and that it's not a political setting up there of the INA, the way our people like to say it, but that we're all involved and that we really have the right representatives. And secondly, it is important to say that we do not have mechanisms to control this future administration through those two members, if they make laws or business decisions other than the interests of the Republic of Croatia, whether it is a matter of further privatisation, closing some productions or such, but we are going to court, the Commercial Court, and in the case of prosecution proceedings by Mr Sanader and Hernadi, it is evident that this Hungary is not experiencing at all Croatian and Croatian legislation or judiciary, because it is not going to hand over Mr Hernadi, so I am asking the present minister, what will it do if the decisions of the Trade Court are not respected by the MOL, and it is unlikely that they will not respect them as they do not respect them now in the criminal case that is currently under way. I think with this bill of law, we're just still losing to INA management rights. I said in the replica this morning that Croatia was damaged by, in this way, the privatisation of INA, that a crime was committed because the management rights were committed to MOL although there is no 51% but there is 49%, and that through its 44% Croatia could not influence anything. INA is a company that employs 36,000 people, today it's around 10,000 people with all the daughters' companies, and only 4,000 of them work in core business just in processing oil derivatives and distribution, and selling oil derivatives. And what is worst, in the MOL development strategy, information from people employed in INA, in the MOL development strategy by 2030, there is no mention of investment in development, in production in Croatia, but just keeping that market as their goal. Why did they come, why did they buy shares in the INA? To get 500 retail spots in Croatia and yet still belonging to the pumps that are in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia, which are now being fought by a legal battle to win them in their own possession, means only the market. And the other thing that was very interesting to them, and that was just mentioned in the fields in Syria and what I heard from the INA employees, that recently it was a delegation that wanted to talk to the INA-MOL administration about the activation of these fields in Syria, and they just didn't want to take them in, and where to talk seriously. I think the public needs to know. And what Croatia will do now, if the information is correct, I have information from INA employees to prepare a new layoff of workers, over 500, of which over 100 with high professional equipment. Any company that wants to develop, which wants to invest in production, research, would send people with high professional training to improve and to additional education, not to the labour market. So, Croatia's burden, the Employment Service and some possible social measures of future unemployed will come with some minimum severance, because we see how the INA-MOL administration is considering today. A larger gross profit of INA, more than 20%, has been achieved over a billion kuna net profits, and most of the profits have been achieved precisely from sales in the Republic of Croatia. So here I am telling the truth, that account they presented to the Croatian public that the Sisak refinery is financially invaluable and that there must be some other solution for this drive and for these workers, is not just standing on the example of the field in Lipovljani where some 100, 120 people work, gross income from this field has reached 300 million kuna, and the cost of this field is about 100, 120 million kuna, may still be the operational cost of other services of 50 million, so over 100, 150 million kuna is a net profit from only one field of its own oil processing. So we ask who's telling the truth, those workers and the profession, and the union that's fighting the closure of the process in Sisak or the management of MOL that ignores such information, and not that in public these figures, billions of kunas have won, traffic has fallen from 30 billion to 15 billion once, but now, from these 15, they've achieved over billions of net profits. And there's been a promised investment in Rijeka over 5 billion, and you know what the head of their administration, Mr. Shandor, says? That they will invest in Rijeka only if the cost-effectiveness study shows that it is worth investing in, means a lie, will not invest because they are interested in closing production in Croatia, they are only interested in the retail network and raise there, and on the other hand they reduce salaries for workers who work in these retail places, or in turkeys around Croatia. It's true, they're 10%, they've cut their wages, they've earned a bigger profit, and then the logic would be if people work well and contribute, to reward them for it, no, they punish them because they're interested in profit derived from the Republic of Croatia. And what is the interest of the Republic of Croatia? So we at HSS are asking for what Prime Minister Plenkovic has promised to achieve, to return Croatia to the INA in our hands, that golden coke, that billion-dollar profit can certainly be higher, because they certainly haven't shown any real financial reports, and we don't even have control mechanisms here, we don't even have veto rights anymore. So how do we fight? Then we return the management rights to Croatia, buy those shares. But the question is whether they want to sell, but now it's a problem, there's got to be a real diplomatic battle to get it so that we can buy it, and on the other hand, we have to find models to finance it, and we're not from HSS to finance it by selling HEP or some other national treasure type of water source, state agricultural land or forest, but that incomes are provided from sources that certainly exist, but it's not going to government. The HSS proposed the bill to be charged to those who illegally acquired property, somewhere in the gray market is more than 30% of the economy in the Republic of Croatia, there is an annual level, experts say over 40 billion and could very quickly come up with funds to buy INA and return to Croatian property, only that it has political will. Here, I invite you to Mr. Ministers to check these figures, these are from the financial reports of INA and MOL which is not the problem, the MOL development strategy is on their pages, it is no problem to look at and try to be more nationalally aware, more combative, more concrete in the protection of Croatian interests, not declaratively or perhaps you cannot tell me the answer as planned, as you said you were preparing some activities in the further return of INA to Croatian hands because you signed that statement that they sent to you from HDZ, so you can't, but it would be correct for the Croatian public to know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128114	Thank you, too. We move to the finals by clubs, we have two clubs, the first club is the Representatives of the Living Wall and the SNAGA and will speak to Mr. Ivan Willibor Sinčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128115	Thank you, Chairman. Regnum regni non-stretched leges, said by Croatian Ban Erdidija in 1790. at the meeting of the joint Hungarian-Croatian Parliament in Budim. The Kingdom does not prescribe the law, but we have allowed ourselves exactly the situation that 2/3 of the law in one way or another writes and prescribes Europe, we do not have the right to refuse while we are a member of that law, so this membership is harmful with everything else. So Mr Plenkovic understands or probably understands, but he doesn't care that much of the legislation in non-democratic Europe, in Europe with a deficit of democracy, is just prescribing corporations. The lobbyists are influencing a commission that then proposes what it proposes and then we have a situation like this. Let's think of a little chronology, let's remember when we first sold it to the INA, that first package, is there an honest analysis done? It's not. Let's remember Sanader in 2008 and 2009, what happened? Did the Croatian judiciary react properly? It's not. Remember when they took over, although they don't have most of the shares, INA, when they started firing workers, mutilating and now there's a phase of one firing process, I guess the last wave before the final accession and conversion to the branch, was there a reaction to Croatian politics? No, it's those excuses, it's a private firm, like this, like that. When they were selling real estate, when they singled out retail illegally, they transferred contracts from INA to a separate company, did the Constitutional Court's reaction, anyone? No, I don't. And today, where a little bit of theoretical rights are being taken away, it's really the last step, I don't know what else I can do for you about governance, take it. It's really the last formal step that I can do whatever they want, and everything under cover, that's what Europe told us. We're discussing today, not so much about this law, which is good because it's so short, but we've expanded the subject on the INA in general and it's happened that we're discussing it without a fact. Here's what I'll read to you in the morning: "INA sources indicate that the aim of MOL's manipulation is to display at all costs the Sisak refinery as a loser whose survival is not worth investing in, to justify shutting down the heart of the Sisak refinery, its efficies and gas production facilities and to convince the Croatian government that the only viable future of the refinery in Sisak is its conversion into a logistics centre and a storage facility for derivatives." Yes, they will get everything. How did the dwarf master the giant? By having help on the inside, corruption has done its part, Croatian Hungarians in those positions have played for the other side instead of protecting Croatian interests and a little by little div has kneeled, and the dwarf has mastered it and today we are here, discussing the INA again without knowing that we have any real information about this company. We don't know if the refinery in Sisak has been specifically mentioned so many times, is it working in plus or minus today? The administration claims its, uh, management that I don't trust at all, which is prone to corruption, whose, I don't know, president on the emissaries, etc., it's just the tip of an ice dream that smaller directors on the inside do. The administration can believe, apparently Mr. Plenkovic believes, Mr. Coric believes, if the administration says it is non-profitable, it is not profitable. People who work there on that production, they have, therefore, their own story based on their knowledge and experience, that it is profitable, but we as HS must have some input, something that we can make conclusions or else it all comes down to who it's believed to be, it all comes down to politics, so there's no profession, there's no professional basis, but it fits perfectly into Plenkovic's modus operand, which doesn't matter, the metric doesn't matter to him, it doesn't matter to him, it just doesn't matter to him, it's just a perception that this is all wrapped up in some kind of story under there, it has to be, and what it's going to be real or not, it just doesn't interest him. Going into a debate without real data is dilettaneous and infantile. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128116	I thank my colleague Sincic. Final debate on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128117	Thank you, Vice-President HS, distinguished ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, here, I will try, given that the debate was, so to speak, extensively, once again, to highlight what I consider important, and what I would like to warn the minister and his associates to try to see, and through the amendments we have proposed before, only one, such detail, was mentioned in the 2009 decision, on the basis of which MOL received most of the management rights and what it always discourages the citizens in the Republic of Croatia, which makes us a little bit and, in relation to the countries of developed democracy, the EU countries, not to say strangely, is also the decision of the Constitutional Court, where the Constitutional Court literally stated that at the time the treaty was signed, it was not possible to establish that the President of the Government was a state official, that there was only one line. Here, once again, I'm going to highlight those points that we consider important, so, in art. We propose that, if the minister does not deliver an opinion within the deadlines set out in Article 3 and Article 4, it will be considered that no positive opinion has been issued. This is about the minister and there are a number of reasons why the minister may not issue that opinion, and since it is about, as we said, protecting Croatian interests, then we think it is important. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 10a. I apologize, century 3, because this should be changed, it is really unnecessary, says, if representatives, say, if they were not present at the session in relation to 8 days of knowledge of the decision if they are not, they are two, so it is almost amazing that both will not be in the session at the same time. We think it's too high. Art. 10a. St. 2., there is, instead of, therefore, the Minister of Energy to put the Government of the Republic of Croatia in place, if the administration of INA votes a decision that seriously endangers the interests of the Member States. On 10th century 7 of this Law, representatives of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 1 of this Article shall submit a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to review such a decision and, of course, to the Court of Auditors. 8. The same thing, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not file an action under Article 4 of this Article within 8 days, it will be deemed to be in agreement with the approved decision of the management of INA d.d. Here it may remain consensual because it is, it is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and of course, Art. 10a. St. 4. if again the Government of the Republic of Croatia finds that the decision, therefore, instead of the Minister, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because opinions and experience have shown these things can only be resolved by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, all negotiations with the strategic partner can be conducted exclusively by the prime minister and only he has the power to make strategic partners, in this case those who are, we cannot change it, some even speculate that they already have over 50% ownership in the INA through custody accounts, which is also the HANFA itself, that's what counterpart Shucker mentioned, HANFA even reacted when she noticed it on the market of shares, so we believe that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must be included in this as much if we are truly in order to protect the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128118	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sagar. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, dear colleague Tomislav Panenić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128119	Thank you very much. The financial result itself, last published where INA has achieved 1.2 billion kuna, clearly says that despite the fact that there has been no significant investment, INA is in this state in which it is now, can be a significantly profitable company. And then the key question arises, should we really allow or justify the closure of a refinery plant like in Sisak? Is that, is that going to contribute that it's going to be 2 billion kunas? Are we as a country that we're a participant there with over 44%, do we really want the state budget to draw those funds, to pull them out so that we can get a better budget at the expense of shutting down the drive? Whether Prime Minister Plenkovic's statement when he announced, not that he would remain a refinery, but that he would remain a job, is now talking about reducing from 800 to 400 employees there. I think we're talking now about some actual factical data where we can only see that, how powerful is the ability to manipulate the consolidation of INA's financial results and its business. This way we'll legalize it, and we're sure that when this law goes through, when it formally takes over the MOL management of 50+1 shares, if we're going to achieve 1.2 billion, or if this right-hand side here is going to say what, so you see how great MOL is, how it's doing good results, and when it gets worse, then we're going to talk about market reduction, about new technologies, about everything that makes business more difficult. I think that we do, in fact, do you who will vote for this on Friday, surely one strategy for the Republic of Croatia a bad decision that we will hardly justify, and I know that everyone will yell that is the result of the government of Andrej Plenkovic and Minister Tomislav Ćorić if we look at it from that strategic aspect. I'm sorry US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo didn't come to the Republic of Croatia, why did he come to Hungary? It came there precisely because Russia's influence became too strong, they take over energy flows, they strengthen their presence, to this day which are the positive effects that Russia has left on the countries, unfortunately, it's always talked about the developed Western world, this eastern one has never been so developed, and even in Russia itself, there's still no such prosperity, and someone's gonna say Russian influence is positive, not reducing Russia's rights to fight for its strategic interests, I'm only talking about Croatian interests, which, however small, however weak we may be, we have to have, we must finally have this one position to say we have our interests which are not Russian, which are not the EU, but is our interest and this is the law that is of our own interest and in which we must defend some devils and we must defend. So we're fighting for here, what does verticalally integrated mean? One day we're going to collect pears and apples, and we're going to say, unfortunately, with our refinery business, it couldn't work, but we're also adding MOL's refineries, so it's vertically integrated. So we'll say here's our oil, it's our oil, it's processed in Hungary, but it's vertically integrated. So how long are we going to have more of that breadth that we're showing. All of us are good to ourselves in our own backyard. We are the only ones who always disdain what is a Croat, which is Croatian and always give up to someone else. We're all gonna be fine, everyone who comes here, we're just not gonna say here. I've had a chance to talk to Hochstein too. I said OK America, great that, I understand your efforts and desires and all that expensive but give something then and contribute not only to the tour and the pressure. By pressing you can only massage someone but you will not do well as far as our country and the Croatian people are concerned. This way, this way we're going, I don't want to, and my club is going to say that this is INA's forgiveness. It can't be forgiveness, we've been run over a lot of times, we've been threatened by a lot bigger than these, and we're not gonna say for sure, no, that's the end point, that's something that closes this story. And I trust that one, and we'll all believe that we're fighting for this if it's never the end, that one day we'll surely bring back what belongs to us as much as this government wants to take it away from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128120	I thank my colleague Panenic for this closing statement. We've exhausted everything to discuss. ... Do you have a final? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, Minister's closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128121	Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, parliamentary representatives, allow above all to thank you on behalf of the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection and on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for today's constructive debate. So, in the opening part of the debate, I cited the reasons and circumstances of the amendment and addition of the INA Privatisation Act. We believe that these amendments and complement their content finally eliminate the further possibility of the European Commission's complaint against the Republic of Croatia. This legal framework, i.e. this law, fully harmonizes with the European acquis. And finally what's important is that we protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia as much as possible. I thank you for the 311 amendments, as far as I know which have arrived at this text of amendments and additions and once again for a constructive debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128122	I thank the Minister for this final word. Replica, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128123	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, here I would ask on my personal behalf that you do not thank me because I cannot be constructive in the structure. This is one structure that I'm sick of, it's a pain in the ass for all the knowledge that we have in what's going to happen, which is going to be in the future and with the best of will. With everything I can say constructive I can never be and this is a structure that is so much scale that surely one day you will question your own conscience precisely because of what you presented here today, because of what those who support you will raise your hand and we will all be responsible to the Croatian people. And the data you've been presenting, it's a bureaucratic language that can always be presented in this way but certainly something should be in your heart. I haven't seen your statement yet that you fought for something that is of real Croatian interest except that the commission... Some court to charge for something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128124	I thank my colleague Panenic. Minister Coric's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128125	Dear Mr Panenic, my struggle for Croatian interest is in the context of my activities within the ministry, the law we have passed so far, the Law on LNG Terminal, the decision to go into its construction, a whole series of other decisions, is infinitely greater than the engagements you have ever shown for the Republic of Croatia. If you think the engagement is empty, not to say a hollow word that, like your colleagues in MOST, you often use, it's not an engagement. The fight for Croatia is works and let time show whether this law was a protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia or not. Thank you very much. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128126	Thank you. Dear fellow Panenic, I would ask nicely. ... I understand your emotions, so you care, but we have to respect the Rules of Procedure. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128127	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, I expected you in your closing statement to answer where did that billion-dollar profit come from? So simply in 2013, someone transferred gas businesses to HEP and on HEP sold gas at market prices and that is the result. I'm surprised that someone who was headed by the Ministry of Economy of the Republic of Croatia simply failed to recognize it, it's simple mathematics. Thus, it is a fact, as is the fact that in 2003 someone gave far greater management rights than someone deserved on the basis of the ownership of shares. These are facts that cannot be avoided as well as the fact that HDZ has not sold one share to MOL. Mrs. Pusic, when you answer for Syria, then cry all you want. So HDZ didn't sell any shares, HDZ didn't sell any shares. Look at the stock market and you'll see and we'll talk more about Syria.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128128	Thank you, dear fellow Shucker. Dear colleague Pusic, I would ask you not to enter the word of your colleagues as they speak. We have an answer, dear Minister Coric, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128129	Thank you very much for your rep, Mr. Shucker. So I'm not surprised Mr. Panenic didn't recognize the reasons for this profit. I said one more time and I'll say it again, big words are one thing, empty big words, especially. Working for the Republic of Croatia is something else. May our engagement finally be judged by the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128130	I thank the Minister for his reply. Now I finally conclude the debate on this agenda point. I thank the Minister for Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr Tomislav Ćorić and State Secretary at the Ministry of Environmental and Energy Protection, Mr Ivo Milatić, for the reasons of the bill. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128131	We are going to make a statement on the amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INA Oil Industry d.d., the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the representative Branko Bačić, the club of Independent Representatives, the Club of Representatives of the SDP. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. I would ask the applicant's representative to be shown about the amendments submitted. Here is Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Energy Ivo Milatić. Here you go, buddy Bull. Mr. Secretary of State, please take a seat for the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128132	Thank you very much, President. On behalf of the Club of the Independent Lists, I request a 10-minute break to consult on this law that is essentially a death certificate for our INA to our strategic national, our company. Here I will only briefly say everything that has happened since INA, from the white nights, about the White Night Privatisation Act, which during the SDP Slavko Linic handed over into other people's hands to Ivo Sanader who made an unremembered robbery as president of HDZ, were numerous and co-operated with it then, they could better say about it to those statements made by Andrej Plenkovic. Andrej Plenkovic told the media in 2016, you see here, I will not allow MOL to close the refinery in Sisak. Also for Christmas on Banja Day, 2016, he said Croatia will become the owner, everything it does to become the owner of the INA as a strategic national company and that it will not be taken over by the MOL or Hungary. And today it is before us, we are still discussing the law, amendments are given to a law that cannot be corrected or corrected. You must withdraw this law because this is the death certificate of INA's strongest company, you are handing it over to others in the Plenkovic agreement, the Orban that was agreed under the table. Someone has to answer for this robbery. This is one of the major robberies, and this is one of the most harmful amendments to the law that has been passed in this House. And it is a shame in all that this law is passed in this House proposed by the Government of Andrej Plenkovic, who played the protector of INA and national interests. I ask you to withdraw this law and you must be ashamed to propose this law against the interest of the people of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128133	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128134	Thank you, President, I am also looking for a break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club in order to reconsider the situation and warn the Croatian public that the trial against former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader is still pending on charges of receiving bribes, so he did not seek extortion but received bribes from representatives of the Hungarian company MOL. The difference between bribes and extortion is that in extortion, the one who asks for extortion is placed superior to the one who is obliged to give and the bribes represent the more superior ones. It is very dangerous for the Croatian state, such an accusation because the Hungarian MOL at that time or representatives of MOL set themselves superior to the Republic of Croatia. So what's the problem now? We're going to vote tomorrow and we're going to have a trial. So, it turns out that if the charges are true that former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader framed the Hungarians and they gave him, if they gave him a bribe, that they gave him shit anyway, he'd come into possession of the INA by this law. And what we want to warn that this law is missing in that part of the control of the future owner of INA, if it is already defined by more law in 2002 that the INA will be privatised is missing in terms of representatives, those who will control the INA, because the government of the Republic of Croatia has somehow gotten out of this whole control and released 2 members, 2 representatives there who can, do not have to be in the session, I do not know what they will get for it, what kind of journals, which experts are talking about. So the government has not made it clear what is going on here and what it will do if there is indeed a threat to the national interests of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're looking for a break. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128135	Is anyone else picking up for a break? If not, we'll continue at 10:45. Thank you. [[It's 10.34 p.m.]] [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.45 HOURS]] We're on our way, so, with the amendments, the first amendment, MP Branko Bacic, here's the secretary of state.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128137	Thank you, Mr. President. The government accepts MP Bacic's amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128138	It becomes an integral part of the law. Second Amendment, Independent Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128139	The government doesn't accept. The reasons for which specific rights are granted to the State must be based on objective and clear criteria which do not affect market freedoms more than is necessary in order to achieve public interest. This is only possible if the restrictions clearly and precisely defined and subject to the judicial supervision of national courts are extremely closely formulated. Therefore, the applicant has been identified as a positive formulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128140	The obvious? There's no one here, so we'll vote on the amendment. Let's go to Amendment No. 3., Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128141	The government doesn't accept. As regards amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, the applicant considered them, and believes they are not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128142	It's obvious, fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128143	Thank you, Mr. President HS. The SDP representative club submitted a whole series of amendments to this law because we want to review absolutely every word of it, every provision of it. The law in question regulates an extremely important area, which is the area of privatisation of the largest Croatian company INA. However, although such a law would require a debate that would be serious, which would be long-lasting and comprehensive, the government decided to apply a completely different approach. First of all, consultation with the interested public regarding this law was initiated during a period when most citizens could not even notice it, namely, consultation with the public interested was conducted during Christmas and New Year's holidays, and it did not even last in full, as foreseen by the law within 30 days, but shorter, and then the Government decided to refer the same law to the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure. We at the SDP Representatives' Club are most strongly protesting such a law-making process, we protest the content of this law, and we will continue to explain to each individual amendment why we are submitting it and why we insist on voting for each of them. We're looking for, of course, a vote on this, and we're going to continue to explain to each and every one of us what we're having, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128144	Before we move to the fourth amendment, let us all welcome together students and students of OS Alojzi Stepinca from Zagreb. Welcome! ... The fourth amendment is the same Club of Representatives. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128145	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128146	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128147	I'd like to thank my esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Let me respond to the government's concerns regarding the need to pass this law by an urgent procedure through the thesis that this is about compliance with EU law. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the fact that the European Commission considers that a single legal act of a Member State is not in line with EU law does not ultimately mean that it is true. It is not the European Commission, which makes a decision on compliance with EU law, but is the only EU court, in spite of the valid position the government has tried to show in the last week's debate on this law. Therefore, the claim that the commission is claiming that it does not comply with the EU cannot, in itself, be sufficient for the Member State to accept it without discussion. I would like to remind you, the SDP Representatives' Club referred more than two years ago to a procedure of interpretation that pointed out exactly the infringement procedure that the European Commission launched against the Republic of Croatia and pointed out why what was stated in the European Commission's request does not hold water. We insisted that the Republic of Croatia on the solutions set out in the INA Privatisation Act, we gave you arguments to defend it, and what was your message? You rejected the proposal, and not only did you refuse, after the Government of the Republic of Croatia refused the interpretation, after HDZ's majority refused the interpretation, not a month after that, the Government of the Republic of Croatia agreed with the European Commission to amend this law, and it did not inform representatives, nor the Croatian public, but we learned about it from the European Commission's statement. Of course, we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128148	Amendment No. 5, the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128149	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128150	It's obvious, fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128151	So, respected colleagues and colleagues, we have not learned about the decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to approach the amendments to this law, so we have not learned about it from a statement by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have not learned about it at a dramatic press conference like it was for Christmas Eve two years and two months ago, but we have learned about it from a dry statement sent by the European Commission. The statement said, "We are stopping the infringement procedure of EU law, we will not open proceedings before the EU court against the Republic of Croatia." And why? Because the Republic of Croatia has agreed to change this law. At that point, the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not find it appropriate to call for a press conference, to come before MPs in HS, it did not consider it appropriate even when discussing the interpretation in HS to explain what the arguments for amending the law were, but to find out only a few months later, and even today we do not get an excessive and complete explanation why this law would be in line with EU law, and the one we decided to change would not. We already have an emergency procedure in which, overnight, as we said, over Christmas holidays, we are trying to change this law in an emergency parliamentary procedure. The SDP representative club has referred to the procedure of the draft conclusion, which we ask for to be conducted in this law in two readings, and since you refuse to do so, we will use this interpretation of the amendment to repeat all our remarks and add a whole series of new ones, which indicate why this law should not be adopted in this form. I thank you and ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128152	Amendment No. 6. re Club Representative of the SPD.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128153	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128154	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128155	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will remain a few more moments on the issue of EU law, because it was the main argument of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to explain the need for urgent adoption of this law. When against one country, a Member State is in the process of violating EU law, that Member State has 3 options, it is first to accept the Commission's position and correct legal acts, that is what you have done. But that's not the only option. The Member State has 2 more options, it may be aware that it violates EU law, but still assess that in its national interests it is better to carry out proceedings before the court, in order to get some more time, to apply a legal act that is in force, while the EU Court does not say otherwise. That in this case would be logical, because if true, what the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced two years ago and two months ago. It's that we want to buy the INA, then the instrument, which existed in the INA privatisation law, is absolutely necessary and should be used. However, respected colleagues and colleagues have a third option, and the option says a Member State can be convinced that the act in question does not violate EU law. All those who know at least a little bit about EU law know that the EU's operating agreement, when we talk about so-called. 4 EU freedoms, allowing and derogating from them, provided that a Member State can justify this. One reason to justify such deviation from EU rules and to protect the public order, i.e. national interests. We are talking about the INA Privatisation Act here, we are talking about the wish of a Member State, not to let what the spine, its electricity sector, remain at least one way or another under the control of a Member State. Of course we're asking for a vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128156	We're going to Amendment 7 of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128157	The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128158	Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128159	Thank you, Mr. President. However, in this case, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, knowingly and voluntarily waives control rights and facilitates the partner and we know that this partner has come to a dominant impact in the INA, facilitates the management of INA and makes it easier for that partner to do what the Minister of State Property, dear counterpart Maric, has said in his time that it would be high treason and should stop dealing with politics to make it happen, for example, by shutting down the refinery in Sisak. However, as I said, the government of the Republic of Croatia has neither tried nor tried to prove that this law is in accordance with EU law. The government of the Republic of Croatia is talking about some sort of action before the European Court of Justice. However, I have checked in the EU court register, and I have found that four proceedings have been conducted against the Republic of Croatia so far. Two have been completed in the meantime, as the Republic of Croatia has fulfilled what the commission has asked it to do, two are still being led. But none of those four proceedings are related to the INA privatisation law. This means that the European Commission, against the Republic of Croatia, has not even initiated proceedings before the Court of Justice of the EU, which means that Croatia is not at risk of paying the fine. It won't be, why? Because in this case she missed out on pressure from Brussels and agreed to amend the law. Now whether this law is fully in line with EU law or not is not on us or on this committee. Because it will be evaluated by another commission, which will take office in 7 or 8 months after the May of this year election, and the question arises, whether, in the end, everything you've done will be saved under that sentence for nothing, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128160	We're going to the 8th Amendment of the same Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128161	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. The explanation is the same as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128162	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128163	Thank you. For the start of any excessive stories concerning INA, the normal state and the normal government and the normal team around the resolute minister, it should define a development strategy, an energy development strategy, according to current data, therefore, which have gone through some preliminary study. We see that there is no ambitious plan and an ambitious resolution ministry, which would define in Croatia, an energy strategy for this century. From the energy strategy, then we can talk about something called the future of the INA. So most of this so-called. Harmonization and harmonisation of laws with European practice did not come from some national interests, but came again from some of the interests that we do not want to initiate any procedure, that we want to do something I do not know, harmonize, normalize, but we do not have a final goal. What's our final goal? What about the INA? From all the analyses that have come, I will say from a kind of poker involving the European Commission, the arbitration court, the MOL, the INA company itself and the Croatian government, therefore, are not seen to have the whole process and that the whole process will end. I'm afraid, by adopting this law, where I can agree with a colleague of the coat of arms who was definitely made overnight, that he would simply become a status quo. And that's the worst thing that can happen actually for Croatia, generally for something called energy sovereignty I'll call it, which is with food production, I think in the 21st century and most important for... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128164	You got it. Let's go to Amendment No. The 9th same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128165	The government doesn't accept. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128166	Who's going? Comrade Jovanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128167	Thank you very much. So this reading of amendments that we are trying to give to the Croatian public at least some of what is the task of the Croatian Parliament, which is transparency and the possibility of seeing what is being debated in the Croatian Parliament, shows that your slogan is "verified" completely missed. So this law has been passed and is proposed to be adopted by emergency procedure. As we've already heard from the public consultation, it's been completely ignoring the public. And as with some other documents, you do not care at all what the public thinks and here as if you are not representing the interests of the Croatian public but the interests of the Hungarians. So I think we should be blushing all day today, you've been sent here to defend the amendments and I don't know how you feel. Therefore, I will remind you that so far, the two HDZ governments have fallen due to a direct and indirect relationship with the things that are happening around INA and I am convinced that what you are doing around INA will be the reason that you will not win the next elections whenever they are. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128168	You got it. Let's go to Amendment No. It's the 10th same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128169	Thank you. The government does not accept the same reasoning as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128170	It's my colleague Jovanovic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128171	So driving to Zagreb today, I was called by several citizens from Rijeka, especially in the area that comes from Krk. And they asked me why our government so favors the Hungarians. Isn't it enough that the anti-constitutional, illegal violation of all decisions of the Primorje-Gorskia Assembly, the Omis Municipal Council, unrespecting protests of citizens decided to favour the Hungarians around LNG than here now fully wishes to get rid of the INAs and thus do everything contrary to what they keep saying they want and that is the energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. So you want to hand INA over to LNG, you want to build on the damages of Croatian citizens and to please the Hungarians. So it's really interesting that Plenkovic talked and we never found out whether we wanted to go with the Prime Minister of the Republic, the country of Hungary when he was here in Croatia. Therefore, you are really doing everything contrary to what Croatian citizens would like the government to do, which is to take care of their interests, interests of the Republic of Croatia and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128172	You got it. No. 11. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128173	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128174	Observation of Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128175	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So as my colleague Grbin said before me, one of the reasons for a series of these amendments is actually to sort of give another reading of this law. Because we don't see a simple rush in the SDP. So since Christmas 2016, more than 2 years have passed. For more than two years, the government has been silent about what's going on with INA. So from the pompous announcement that we will buy from MOL the share, i.e. that INA will again be in 100% ownership of the RH here so far. The government is silent. And then all of a sudden, we have a law that's in an emergency procedure that's not going to be voted on on Friday, but tomorrow. I don't know why the rulings are in such a hurry. The more we did not get answers to some questions, which is why in the meantime a tender for consultants was launched in the process completely halted, why no contract was signed with the elected ones. So we have a lot of questions here. Not only are questions about what the prime minister has negotiated with the head of another country, and whether the talks included the takeover of INA by MOL, but also other very specific issues. Both alone and my colleagues have repeatedly asked the Prime Minister what is going on with INA, why nothing on this issue is going on. The answers we received were to do analysis, to think etc., etc., etc. Well, there's the folk's "Burn it and Say it," so I guess you'll think about it first and then you'll make an announcement. But apparently in the case of the government of Andrej Plenkovic, it first announced itself, then for two years it was thought and now it's convenient for someone. And why do you do it overnight? So these are all questions that not only we but also the Croatian public wants an answer. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128176	Let's go to Amendment No. 12. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128177	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128178	My colleague Hajdukovic again, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128179	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So again, another question is being asked, and that is why we are passing this law so quickly and why, even at the time of court disputes before Croatian courts, among other things, on the issue of selling INA. So why did the government give in to pressure from Brussels, the previous governments did not do this, but in the SDP's time, that is, at the time when the SDP was in power and with the Government of Zoran Milanovic there were pressures against the government but we didn't want to do it, we didn't want to change the law, we didn't want to bring new legal solutions just because certain trials were going on. And until these trials are resolved, we think that any further involvement in this problem would not be constructive. It would not be constructive primarily because of Croatia. And why is that? Now we can again answer that question to more, with more arguments, and one of them is that fellow Highdash Doncic mentioned, we don't have a simple energy strategy. And not only do we not have an energy strategy, we don't have any strategy. In no way, nor in any aspect of the development of our society. While we do not have a strategy, while we do not have a clear vision of what we want and in which direction we want to develop any of our energy sovereignty, whether our agriculture, economy or any other aspect of society so far is the adoption of ad hoc law, especially in an emergency procedure and especially on such important issues will not contribute to security or energy independence and self-sufficiency of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128180	You got it. Let's go to Amendment No. 13. The SDP rep club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128181	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128182	Comrade Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128183	Thank you, Mr. President. Col. Milatić, I am pleased to see you, you are obviously the Government's amendment man because even the last time we had amendments about LNG, you were just defending but all these amendments and coming precisely because the government is stubbornly breaking certain solutions over its knee. We have handed over this number of amendments, as colleagues have just said, to extend the debate on the INA issue and on these important things for the Croatian state because it is obvious that the Government of the Head of State and not that there is no plan and programme that would be said but by fire measures it brings certain solutions that usually go to the harm of citizens and break themselves over its knees because it is the opposite and that this government knows what it is doing and if this government had some kind of plan then the prime minister would not have said so at all about Christmas 2016 without any analysis or conclusion about what it is doing to Croatia, we will tell INA back into Croatian hands. Just today, when the oil industry is falling slowly in the future and the whole world is turning to some new technologies of renewable energy, the prime minister was already drumming we're going to return the INA to Croatian hands and we're going to sell HEP that should just do some new analysis, so through these analyses when electricity and renewable energy sources definitely the future, we're turning the wheel backwards and this shows all the shortcomings of this government in any future thinking. The second thing, we're talking about Croatia's energy independence again. They mentioned colleagues here, and we talked a lot about the LNG terminal in Krk, which, for example, is over the knee by the will of local self-government and citizens who live there, again pushing and on the other hand, on the state level, we have solutions like this. It is precisely because of all the questions that we have asked and have not yet received answers we have submitted and submitted this number of amendments and, of course, I am also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128184	You got it. We're going to Amendment number 14, SDP's club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128185	The government doesn't accept. Explanation is the same as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128186	A colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128187	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to continue to explain and the previous amendment, so why do we think it's not wise to go with this law in this way and in an urgent procedure, as I said earlier? So the government and Prime Minister Plenkovic announced in 2016 the INA's return to Croatian hands. After that, nothing was done, no public information was taken to find this law before us after two years of emergency proceedings pushed, quickly and over the knee, and in the meantime what happened? There was a meeting of the Prime Ministers and the President of the Hungarian Government of Mr. Orban, after which this law once again comes, which should now fully abandon the management of the INA, so under this law, the Croatian Government would now have two representatives to oversee the future of the INA business and at the moment we have 3 members of the administration who do not have that kind of influence but what kind of impact they have on decision-making in INA and now we leave it lightly to the Hungarians again. And now we're wondering, and that's a question you haven't answered yet, is this law a fruit of some kind of conversation and agreement between Prime Minister Plenkovic and Prime Minister Orban, is there a story there? The second thing, why we do not feel that we should push this law is that we still have legal proceedings on this issue that are not, not that they are not ended but are not even close to the end and when we see how slow this law is being run and what is happening there, we even have reasonable doubts that these things are being pushed into oblivion and that the state is not protecting the interests of Croatian and Croatian citizens, but is exactly pleasing to the Hungarians and therefore we believe that this law should not be passed and, in particular, not by emergency procedure, so I am asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128188	We're going to the 15th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128189	The government doesn't accept. By reason, the INA will continue to be representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the administration plus 2 independent members provided for in this law. So in the future, we have board members plus two independent members.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128190	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128191	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State, for this clarification. But that clarification doesn't hold too much water, but we've already talked about it, we'll talk about it further. Let me relate to what my colleague Djujic said. So two years ago and two months ago. At a dramatic press conference, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia announced the return of INA to Croatian property. But in these two years and two months. We haven't heard anything about how this return of INA to Croatian property is intended to be carried out. We've asked a few important questions about this procedure. First of all, the basic question, how much is it going to cost? In order to determine how much this return of INA to Croatian property will cost, some procedures have been carried out, and some consultants have been requested, but neither we today for 2 years or 2 months. After the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia announced the procedure, we did not get an answer to the basic question of any purchase, any purchase, any transactions, and that is how much such a transaction will cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There's no answer to that. Of course, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128192	Amendment number 16 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128193	The government doesn't accept. As regards the amendments to the SDP Representatives' Club, the applicant has considered them and considers that they are not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128194	It's obvious, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128195	Thank you, Mr. President. Like I said, the answer to the question of how much INA's gonna cost the Republic of Croatia, we didn't get the answer. But we asked each other a question. And this is the question of how the Republic of Croatia will finance the purchase of INA, and although we do not know which one or how much INA buys us, we have been given the answer to the question of how we will pay for it. And what we are presented and what was part of the interpretation, which is very important to discuss in this law, because it can have direct consequences on the budget, on the ransom, etc., what we have received in response is we will finance the purchase of INA through the privatisation of HEP. So HEP privatisation, state-owned power companies need to be financed, renationalized by INA. At the time of the 21st century, when electricity takes over in all aspects of life, the primate of energy originating in hydrocarbons, in particular over oil, makes a decision to privatise the electricity company to finance the purchase of a primary oil company. If you ask me completely insanely and of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128196	Amendment No. 17th, same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128197	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128198	An obvious colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128199	The 3rd question we have raised regarding the purchase of the INA, which was announced by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, is what we will do with the INA after we spend the ransom. We never got an answer directly to that question because the government of the Republic of Croatia simply didn't know what to do with the oil company when they bought it. The government of the Republic of Croatia doesn't know how much it's going to cost, it doesn't know what to do with the company, but it knows where it's going to finance it. What is the problem with this ransom and the price that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay? The fact that the current owner of INA is after the contract he made with Prime Minister Sanader and we know about that famous meeting in the restaurant, we know about all those routes, we know about everything that preceded the conclusion of the contract, simply MOL has received almost 100% management rights in the INA, the rest are only 4 of which were one of which concerning the possibility of moving to which the Government of the Republic of Croatia had the right to veto, everything else could practically have been made by MOL alone. And by this law, we allow MOL to make this decision on its own. The only thing the Republic of Croatia will be able to do in this case is file a court case. And I ask you what will be the arguments in this court procedure that Croatia is seeking, for example, a decision that it has so far been able to ban with a simple veto? On the basis of what arguments will we prohibit the owner from making a certain decision when we give up the right to veto? It just doesn't come out of this law. In this law there is no justification, no foundation and simply the Government of the Republic of Croatia cuts its hand by adopting this law. So we want to buy INA, we don't know what we're going to do with it, and then we're passing a law that makes our position even more difficult. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128200	Thank you. Amendment No. 18th same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128201	The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128202	The obviousness of fellow Hajdash-Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128203	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Dear Secretary of State, you know what 26.22 is. In 2013, under the Council of Franklin Berman, so MOL launched an arbitration dispute on that date in Washington that actually depends on, I will also say fate, the INA's business destiny. So you don't know which way or how that gas business story is going to end. Then what will consultants, allegedly and pompously announced by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic, react to the option of winning to say Croatia or the option of Hungary's victory, i.e. MOL. I will stress here that INA is unfortunately Hungarian national interest precisely because of inaction. Hungary's national interest because it gets a refinery in Rijeka, it gets rid of non-productive refineries in Sisak and gets what's also important what goes under the radar which is a retail network. So to express myself in military terminology, that means if the refineries are artillery you need to have infantry and your infantry is exactly a chain of gas stations that are located on the premises, those former states and dominantly, of course, in Croatia. And it is therefore absolutely bad, it is harmful that, before the end of the dispute in Washington at all, there are any amendments to the INA law, because in this way Croatia falls again into some secondary I will thus express influence. So I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128204	Amendment No. 19th of the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128205	The government does not accept the same reasoning as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128206	Comrade Predrag Matić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128207	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, I'm thinking that in the last month, two days, how she made a pact with HDZ and Prime Minister Plenkovic, they opened her eyes to a lot of things. So she realized that the Ustasha greeting "For Home Ready" was not a very old Croatian greeting, so she realized that there were other things going on in Jasenovac besides the rehearsal of theatre performances, but she also found that corruption is pulling, so it has everything to do with it, don't laugh at the president, it has everything to do with it, she found that corruption draws roots from Austro-Hungarian and allows us HDZ to repeat history and to return to Austro-Hungarian again. We've sold the Austrians since the '90s, and we're going to sell the INA to the Hungarians, so there's a good chance that we're living in Austria again. I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128208	About entering Austro-Hungarian. The SDP's club is the 20th Amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128209	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128210	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128211	Thank you. Another important argument is why this is harmful to you in May 2011 so when MOL announced that it had taken over 1.6% of the INA shares as the subject of an option agreement concluded by MOL and had acquired about 48% of the shares on the Zagreb Stock Exchange. Why do I say that? Because the HANF then reacted correctly and the HANF at that time initiated a criminal application to the DORH on the grounds of a fundamental suspicion that MOL had committed a criminal act of market manipulation and fraud in economic business, therefore in an offer MOL had in December 2010. MOL of course rejected it and pointed out that it was all bought legally. Now, why do I associate it with this law? Because a year later in June 2011, USKOK opened an investigation into Sanader because of the abuse of the position and powers and the receipt of bribes of 10m euros from MOL's chairman, Zoltana Hernadia, who, in turn, enabled the takeover of management rights on INA. ... documented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now after all, after the opening of the arbitration procedure in Washington, so the International Centre for the Resolution of Investment Disputes, I don't understand what the rush is, why the acceleration of these processes when he also mentioned his colleague, Grbin, therefore, is currently in no danger to Croatia. So we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128212	You got it. No. 21st Amendment Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128213	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128214	An obvious colleague, Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128215	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, therefore, just as counterpart Hajdash said, it is still completely incomprehensible why you are doing something that is completely contrary to what you said in your election campaign, in which it is constantly spoken about what is the strategic significance of INA. And these amendments to the law are going in the radical direction of giving up Croatia from the right to control the process in the INA that has so far existed. So we will continue to continue to repeat several times today that the European Commission's request is already several years old, and that is what our government has also shown. The SDP government delayed these changes with a very strong argument that in Croatia all those events from 2009 are being prosecuted when suspicious changes in the contract between the Croatian HDZ Government and MOL were given the right to manage the INA entirely to the Hungarians, regardless of which MOL had no 50% + 1 share in the ownership sense at the time. It is also known that we have not blindly followed the instructions of the European Commission, have acted as you do and have joined the current amendment of the law as you do now. We continue to believe that until the judicial procedure is completed, this law should not be amended or the opportunity to give INA full hand over to the Hungarians, and therefore we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128216	You got it. Let's go to Amendment No. 22. Again, the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128217	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128218	Comrade Matić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128219	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This amendment is very important because Croatian defenders are watching us, so at the privatisation of INA, Croatian defenders and victims of the Homeland War, they received 7% of the shares and then the famous cat or action that took place in the week 2008 first said they would not sell their shares and then suddenly sold them after a phone call. And we can say that we gave it to them practically for the same money and for which we got it. Well, I'm very interested in whether the government will be able to get 7% of the Croatian defenders back at this point in the final sale of INA. Thank you. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128220	You got it. We're going to the 23rd Amendment, the same club of MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128221	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128222	A colleague, Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128223	So our citizens want a state in which they will have an effective judiciary, in which they will have a transparent government and politicians, not a government that pushes non-transparent laws and laws according to an urgent procedure for which consultation with the interested public was conducted at a time when no one has even read it and has not even lasted 30 days. And on the judiciary, what to say, the judicial proceedings that we've already spoken of as suspicious, the taking over of the INA rule are being slow, ineffective and to the extent that it can happen and complete obsolescence. It's absolutely inadmissible and scandalous. Due to such an outcome, Croatia can face a complete loss of any prospect of any success in the ongoing arbitration related to INA. Mr. Secretary of State, you understand that this means the current loss of several billion kunas, only in the gas business is mentioned six billion kunas. Therefore, it is clear that we need to talk about this today and ask for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128224	We're going to the 24th Amendment now. SDP's repatriation club again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128225	Thank you. The government does not accept it, the argument is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128226	It's obvious, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128227	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, the slogan of HDZ's campaign was "verified". And I'd say the only thing that's credible in this government is that it's credible to betray everything that it has promised to the citizens who have given it trust and the other and parliamentary representatives who have chosen it. Because can we say that it is credible that Minister Maric said in the 2016 campaign that HDZ will not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak because of its importance for the economy and that it will cease to deal with politics rather than allow closure? A few years later, we ourselves know what is going on and what Minister Maric is saying. Or Prime Minister Plenkovic announces on Christmas Day 2016 that Croatia is going to buy shares of INA from MOL and that INA will return to 100% ownership of the Republic of Croatia. Two years later, we know what he's saying, or even he's not saying, but he's sending others to speak for him. Why don't we know it that way? We didn't get the answers. Which forced the prime minister, meanwhile, to change his mind, we still don't even know the government. How this will affect Croatia's energy security and self-sufficiency and we don't even know it. What's the plan for the future we don't even know about. So we have an equation with all the unknowns, and the only thing that's known is HDZ's credibility. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128228	Now we're going to move to Amendment 25, SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128229	Thank you. The government does not accept, an explanation as I in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128230	A colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128231	Thank you, Mr. President. So what's weird about this whole story? First, Prime Minister Plenkovic announced on Christmas Eve in 2016, so he couldn't wait for Christmas holidays to pass we'll return INA to Croatian hands. Then there's a consultant contest, and then two years, nothing happens. There's nothing, no story, cancel the contest, give up that story, no one mentions anything. On a few occasions, the question arises, what about that promise, no one says anything, no one knows anything. Then there's this meeting called Plenkovic Orban, and then suddenly we're going at eight speeds. Now once in a hurry, we need to pass the law, go boom a cabinet session on Thursday, Friday Parliament, agenda, second week emergency procedure, emergency debate, we're looking for 2 readings, you don't give. After we've submitted this number of amendments, to de facto extend the debate on this, you're putting this debate on today and we're voting tomorrow. So now he's in such a hurry, we can't wait for a regular vote on Friday to vote on this law and on these amendments, but we have to do it quickly. So for two years nothing happens, the only thing that happens is the meeting of Plenkovic Orban, and now suddenly we can't wait a week, all in a hurry, and these are the things that cast doubt on this whole process and this whole process, and that's why we're looking for a debate in two readings, and that's why we're against even having this law passed. And that's why today we're going to talk about this all day and point to these gaps in front of the Croatian public when you don't want to give us answers, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128232	Amendment 26 Advocacy Club of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128233	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128234	Appearance of fellow Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128235	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, you told Mr. Secretary of State that however, Croatian members will remain in the administration. Yesterday I'm reading... Mr. Zoltan Aldolt's statement, which he said, as far as he's concerned, Croatian members of the administration, so the forces, as far as he's concerned, do not even have to come to work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here, they're simple ficuses, only after that will they be. So here we have the old Croatian rule of privatisation again. Who cares about Croatian interests when they are here, at least the two who are in the administration will be fine with them. Whether they will feel bad in that whole story, perhaps, but with 100 thousand kunas of monthly salary and these mental pains will be easier to bear, so I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128236	We're going to Amendment 27 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128237	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128238	Respect, colleague Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128239	Thank you very much. So, there's nothing state-owned in this approach to INA, which I called some poker game, where both the Republic of Croatia and MOL and INA participate and some solo players, and arbitration in Washington, but maybe some influences, official or unofficial policies from Washington, Moscow, are involved. So it's one big one to say "chushpiz", so you don't currently know which and what the national interest of Croatia is, which Croatia wants from the INA. That's the key question. A year, a year and a half ago in the professional public, a good idea appeared, that Croatia formed, so-called Let's call it an energy patch. So, where INA would be, where it would be and at that point it was possible to petrochemicals, because you well know the secretary of state yourself, that, in fact, without spending petrochemicals in Croatia, there is no gas business. Maybe at that point, and Plinacro if it was possible, and maybe she's talking to HEP, but not in a way that HEP, watch this, 25% privatize for what, to be more transparent on the stock market? Well HEP as a leader, he must be transparent in himself, that it is a national treasure. Now, if that's how we talked, how to gather everything together and why not, become an energy player who will buy something, in Hungary, in Austria, Bosnia, why should we always buy something in Croatia, are we white as a people, that we can't buy with our companies similar companies, outside, so we're coming back, the fat companies bought INA, so they bought INA very bad companies from INA, but my question, what next? What in the future? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128240	We're going to Amendment 28. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128241	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. Explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128242	An obvious colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128243	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. My colleagues who spoke before me mentioned a haste. I'm going to read you something from the interpretation that we submitted two years ago, probably in an anticipating what's going on today and this haste in law making, with an explanation that this is necessary because of the pressure from the European Commission. So, two years ago, we wrote to you, given that EU law allows Member States to deal with declared freedoms, provided that there are reasonable and clear reasons, such as the issue of protection of the public order, and that the issue of energy security and security of fuel supply is certainly a matter of protection of public order and public security, the applicant of this interpretation considers that the Government of the Republic of Croatia must insist on solutions and the Law on the privatisation of INA guaranteeing certain specific rights. In order to ensure the protection of the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the parallel procedure initiated by the European Commission, interpreters call on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to inform the Croatian Parliament on the status and part of the procedure in haste, and propose that the Croatian Parliament draw a conclusion, in which it will support legal solutions in the Law on Privatisation of the INA, i.e., commit to the Government of the Republic, in a procedure before the European Commission and the Court of Justice of the EU, to represent the need to maintain such solutions. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the SDP has been defending this since the day we joined the EU, when we were in power, we have also advocated this throughout the term of office, after which in the opposition, we advocate this today. The dialogue between the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission must be a dialogue between two equal partners, and it can be a dialogue between two equal partners only provided that one partner in this case the Republic of Croatia does not bend its head and does not accept irrevocably what the other serves. However, the Republic of Croatia has decided to give up its position, which is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128244	Amendment 29. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128245	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. Explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128246	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128247	So this text I read earlier was proposed in early 2017. After that it took a year and 6 months. that the same may come to debate in the Croatian Parliament. And even then, he would not come to the debate of the ruling if in the meantime we hadn't put pressure on the amendments to the Rules of Procedure and provided for the possibility that the opposition might, from time to time, insist on discussing certain points. That is what we did and already in June 2018 we discussed this interpretation. However, you rejected our proposal on 29 June 2018. You refused to keep a solution in the INA Privatisation Act, you refused the possibility by which the Republic of Croatia has the right to veto certain management decisions and you have literally left it to the INA now and once and for all to the partner who received it in this area, in this area and with these rights on that famous evening of recorded cameras on which the batteries were removed from the cell phone. Dear colleagues and colleagues, HDZ has shown this law that it is ready to leave Croatia to anyone on one condition only. And that's to pay enough. What Ivo Sanader got, we found out. What Andrej Plenkovic got, we'll find out. Maybe not today, maybe not in a week, but the truth is that respected colleagues and colleagues, they find out.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128248	Amendment number 30, SDP Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128249	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. The same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128250	My colleague, Heidash Doncic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128251	Thank you. So I can express my personal political position on Prime Minister Hungary Orban, who I think is absolutely undemocraticly managing the neighbouring country but I have to confess something to him. I must confess to him one consistency, consistency and determination regarding the protection of Hungarian interests, national interests in listening to INA MOL. So it's definitely a "defense" to say so, to the head of the board. And how are Croatian politicians acting? I'll remind you, Secretary of State, that a year and a half ago, she's two, the president of the state, Kitarovic went to the meeting as if to resolve the blockade of Croatia's entry into an international and economic organisation and to discuss INA and unfortunately returned to Zagreb as a spokeswoman for this particular Orban. And that's why I'm saying, when someone statesically protects their interests because at least he's not a Democrats, and on the other hand, we have non-state behaviour and this law of the entire government of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm asking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128252	Amendment 31, same club representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128253	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. The same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128254	It's obvious, fellow coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128255	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear counterpart Hajdas Doncic spoke about the Hungarian government's relationship to INA. But what needs to be said and what is quite important is the HDZ's relationship to Hungary, Hungary's companies, the Hungarian state. The most famous episode of this relationship, the one of Mr. Sanader, we all saw, we saw footage of it, we know what happened, and without a view that this judicial tape still hasn't received an epilogue, and I hope that soon they will finally get it and that the culprit for one of the biggest robberies Croatia has ever experienced will finally end up behind bars, that story is only one element of these relationships. A colleague, Hajdash Doncic, has now mentioned an episode of Mrs. Grabar Kitarovic in Budapest where she went with a firm view that she would advocate Croatian interests and returned as a spokeswoman for the Hungarian government, however, this is not the first such case. I will remind you of 2015 and the refugee crisis in which Croatia has shown one human face to which it has been congratulated by the entire democratic, modern and advanced Europe. On the other hand, the HDZ, under its then President Karamark, did something quite the opposite, made every effort to plant the leg of Croatia, muddled it in front of other countries, in front of international organisations and instead of supporting what Croatia is doing, held back the views of Hungary, its notorous foreign minister, Mr. Szijarto, and actually laid the foundations for what we are talking about today. I'll do it again, we know what Ivo Sanader got to leave the stake in INA and what Plenkovic got, we'll obviously just find out. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128256	Amendment 32, Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128257	Thank you. The government doesn't accept. The same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128258	It's obvious, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128259	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So, I often talk in this House about lack of vision, lack of strategy, lack of strategic thinking, about not knowing where we want to see Croatia, for example in 2030. We are not thinking strategically, we are not acting strategically and one of the evidence is exactly the adoption of this law, so I will repeat it again, I think it's worth repeating to the Croatian public that it hears very well. 2 years from the announcement that Croatia will re-enter INA's 100% ownership or buy shares from MOL, nothing has happened. Not only has nothing happened but we've been passing this law over our knees, we're bringing it by emergency procedure, but tomorrow we're voting on it, we're in such a hurry that we can't even wait two days when we've waited two years, and we're closing the refinery in Sisak, something that was a promise that we won't do at all. We are building a LNG terminal against the wishes of the local population, not in the same way as originally planned and not in that way that it would probably be more original and cost-effective both to the benefit and to the local population and to the Republic of Croatia. We keep falling apart, we keep making reckless moves, at least reckless about national interest, as far as some personal interests are concerned, we can probably talk about it. Unfortunately, what one great Croatian policy has said last century, Stjepan Radic, continues to happen, crash like geese in the fog, we sign our own death warrant, at least speaking about energy, and we only know that most of the wars currently being waged in the world are currently aimed at this energy stability and sufficientness and energy, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128260	Amendment 33. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128261	Amendment 33. The government doesn't accept the same argument as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128262	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128263	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, counterpart Hajdukovic has just set up a topic that is inextricably related to the INE issue, its privatisation, relations between Mol and RH in INI, and this is the LNG terminal issue in Krk. I'm going to remind you a few months ago, in this same place, in this same way, we've pointed to the full non-acceptability of law-making regarding LNG terminals. The problems in the establishment of LNG Croatia, and today 7, 8 months later we see that everything we talked about stood. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues of LNG terminal as such in this form are in question required by the Republic of Croatia. For him there is no interest, he will significantly violate the quality of life of citizens and citizens of the Omis, and today we see he will be completely commercially invaluable, or in accordance with the provisions of the law which, unfortunately, we have voted, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to pay the concessionaire a fee if he does not work with profits. And as we know that the concessionary of LNG terminals will not do business with profits, very simply, because of the capacities that exist in that terminal, which are approximately 3 billion cubic metres, it has been leased or is shown an interest in renting only one-sixths. Of that, 80% showed interest in HEP, because one political decision preceded it and 20% INA. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we INU and in a situation like this with a completely, completely catastrophic investment model continue to make some kind of political decision because we don't even know what to do with this oil company, with this electricity company that we have. Thank you, and I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128264	Amendment 34 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128265	Thank you, the government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment, the same explanation as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128266	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128267	Thank you, Mr. President, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so imagine what the situation would be like for the Republic of Croatia to buy the INA in this power facility. At a time when there are 40 and some percent, at a time when it should take part in the decision, and it really doesn't work, at a time when certain officials in the government of the Republic of Croatia are, fortunately ex, found in the conflict of interest because their close relatives, spouses sitting in the INE administration, and the question is whether it's a qualification to enter the INE administration, so that someone sitting there does nothing and gets tens of tens of thousands of kuna, we still make political decisions that INA enters failed projects like the LNG project on the island of Krk. Now I ask you, imagine your respected colleagues and colleagues we have made a failed political decision that will cost us several hundred million euros for LNG in Krk, we are making a failed political decision on the adoption of this law. This law can potentially be because it liberalises the position of MOL on the market, it can potentially raise the price of INE shares. And if the president of the government of the Republic of Croatia was indeed sincere when he announced that the Republic of Croatia would launch the buy-in of INE from MOL, he might have raised that price with this. And the third potentially incredible decision is what if Croatia takes over, what we have in the LNG situation will be the direction of the indicator that will be managed by INO if it becomes a 100% state-owned company again. Making political decisions, making missed political decisions no matter how much they cost, respected colleagues and colleagues what we have ahead of us is an indicator in which Croatia should not go, which is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128268	Amendment 35 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128269	Thank you, the government does not accept the same reasoning as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128270	My colleague, Heidash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128271	Comrade coat of arms, you're absolutely right, so remember two years ago what happened, and that's a loss of arbitration in Geneva. And what happens at that moment, we can talk about this arbitration in different ways, we can say that some new poker players have entered the process itself, so from the Constitutional Court we can.../incomprehensible/... And what happens a few days later, it happens that Prime Minister Plenkovic, completely unprepared without any state traits that should be adorned if the prime minister of the state is a pompous and publicly announcing ransom, remember, the purchase of INA shares from MOL, without how who, in this way, will increase public debt or deficit in Croatia, whether HEP will buy it by credit, borrowing, selling. So, a thousand questions that have remained hanging in the air, so that's exactly the one case, and that's your answer, so from the LNG terminal, we always listen to something and force companies that are under it to tell some public or state-run management to enter certain business decisions that are harmful to their business itself. Here, that's what happened to you, and so I'm saying that this law is harmful and we're looking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128272	Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number 36. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128273	Amendment number 36 is not accepted, the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128274	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128275	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I must continue to do what my colleague Hajdash said once again that two years ago, all Croatian citizens would be publicly lied that INA would be returned to Croatian hands, so he has been publicly lied because now his government has proposed amendments to the laws that go in the radical direction of giving up the right to control the process in the INA that have been such. So, at the same time, we favor the Hungarians with the INA, and at the same time we please the Hungarians with the project of an economically completely invaluable, eco-suspecting LNG terminal built by public money of citizens, and the gas that comes to Omisalj will be far the most expensive. Therefore, it can be expected to increase the price of gas, not only of which has already been announced, precisely because LNG will be economically invaluable and that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to settle a price that will not be able to meet the needs of the market for LNG terminals. So, and here we please the Hungarians, why I wonder and therefore ask for a vote on this amendment of ours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128276	Thank you. Before we continue, please welcome the students and students of OŠ Blaženno Alojzi Stepinc from Zagreb who are at the gallery. ... And now we're going to Amendment No. 37. [[Applause]] SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128277	The Government does not accept that amendment. The explanation is the same as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128278	Honorable vice president of HS, outside the club, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128279	Željko Jovanovic mentioned, I will say a certain discount to the Hungarians, I will just add another, state secretary, another note. On August 2, 2007, you know what happened in Croatian, I say, the oil market, at that point MOL bought you 26 Tifon gas stations and 20 more in construction, and now I'm asking the question, and I'm going back to this to make it clear to everyone, if the refineries are artillery, then the gas stations are infantry, so when you're conquering territory, I'm saying naturally in economic terms, you need to have artillery and infantry, is it logical for you to then so on. The strategic partner of the Republic of Croatia, MOL with INA gas stations buys Tifon and gets 56 excellent locations in the Republic of Croatia, but why? I repeat, precisely because of the state policy of the Hungarian government as regards the energy sector to obtain a retail network, but in what way? So protect the MOL queen in Budapest, and the INA? It doesn't matter anyway because they expect to win the arbitration dispute in Washington, and that's exactly why it's harmful to pass this law in a hurry, so when we don't know what's going to happen, honestly speaking in Washington, and whether the Republic of Croatia might be retired because of the secret agreement between Eve Sanader and the release of management rights in MOL, I am therefore asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128280	Thank you. Of course, when there's a vote, we'll vote... The words of it. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We move to the 38th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128281	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. Explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128282	On behalf of the club, respected representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128283	Thank you, Vice President. So, not that HDZ and Plenkovic have been all the time pleasing the Hungarians with their actions, including this law, but since the very beginning of the process, therefore, that Prime Minister Plenkovic really had the will and intention to buy back the INA to the Croatian hands, as it was announced on Christmas 2016, then they would first of all make an analysis, find a way to implement it and then announce it to the Croatian public. They spoke here of colleagues Grbin and colleagues Hajdas about the increase in stock prices, and already with the press when Prime Minister Plenkovic, without even knowing how, announced that he would return INA to Croatian hands, the price jumped because the Hungarians saw that someone had an interest in buying it, and normally that they had already knocked up the price. After that go these consultants, there's some kind of action that doesn't actually do anything, which, by the way, quits, and that's already making the story a little sour so that this law comes now by an emergency procedure that could then lead to the purchase of INA's purchase price again. So, ultimately, the government, not to return the INA to Croatian hands, but to this law and this very little thing we have in our hands, leaves to the Hungarians and now, I don't know whether all these moves are designed, intended, and that it was all done with the aim of verifying or making it difficult for the INA to return to Croatian hands or Prime Minister Plenkovic all the time doing it out of his own ignorance, which I can also consider, you know, Christmas was two months after he became prime minister, the man was still in euphoria, because you know, when they want you to stand up at the HDZ rally, and then 10 weeks after that you become HDZ president and prime minister Then you get a little euphoria, which is why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128284	Thank you, thank you. We've talked a lot about the word from, now we're going to move on to the proposal to delete the word person, the 39th Amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128285	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. Explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128286	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128287	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, the word of a person is deleted because many people are involved in this process, started with Prime Minister Sanader, where every day we watch on television witnessing how this process took place, that I don't speak, my colleague Grbin mentioned here on several occasions that we saw what Prime Minister Sanader got, but what we see, Mr. Sanader got nothing, received Mr. Robert Jezic, 5 million who disappeared somewhere, so the only ones who got in this whole process are Hungarians, first of all the governing rights from the HDZ government in the period Eve Sanader, and now from Andrej Plenkovic get the complete remains of the rest of the INA that are left and that's who's the only one here at the win. And Mr. Vice President, you don't have to say what it says in the amendments, let's say, President Jandrokovic spoke only to you before you, the amendment to that, I see that you are now reading exactly what the amendment is, so you will extend the debate in a few hours, and I know that you are the one who always advocates that this debate is shorter and that we are not wasting our precious time without a hitch, so here I am also suggesting that you just give the speakers a heads-up, you don't have to step away from the practice we had this morning, because we were doing it quickly, and if you continue this will take us until tomorrow, and I'm sure you wouldn't want to, here and we're looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128288	Thank you, fellow Djujic, but this one I think is very important, these are the very important amendments that you have submitted, and I think it is very important that the public knows the meaning of these amendments and this one is a serious matter, and we need to say what this is about. We will now move on to the 40th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, which requires the erasure of the word "this".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128289	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128290	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128291	So the public can see these amendments on the website of the Croatian Parliament, as we call for the transparency of certain things that this government has camouflaged, then we are told that on the pages of the Croatian Parliament it is clearly visible and that people can see it there. So I really don't know if the president's been running a meeting all morning, and he doesn't announce what the amendment says, and otherwise it's not a practice, because I don't know why you're introducing some new practice and some new rules now, except that you're extending the debate, which is your opinion, whether this is important or not, this is also what we think this law is going on in two readings, so you didn't do it. So, I don't know if this introduction of practice by your side means that in future for all amendments that are made during the announcement of a debate on any amendment under any law, you will say what the amendment says. And I don't think that's good, because it would take you a lot of time, because let's say that when you read some widespread amendment that has a few articles, then you'd lose a lot of time, because you as chairman are not limited to your time, I don't think that would look very good. So I really appeal to you, we've had a good debate all morning, a good way to lead by President Jandrokovic who did what he did, announced the speakers and conducted the debate, there's no need for you to now say what the amendment says or doesn't write. But if that makes you happy, here you go, and we're still asking for a vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128292	Thank you very much, this one I say again, I think it's important, you probably have, and that's why you've submitted the amendments that are important, and this one, and it's good to know what we're discussing. So we're going to the Amendment 41st president of the SDP Club, which requires erasing the word "members".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128293	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128294	Dear Vice President of the House, Hajdash Doncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128295	Thank you very much, I am just saying because of this amendment, I am asking you whether the INA, as it says on its website, is going to say to the official sites, which is INA, whether after the adoption of this law, it will remain a medium-sized European oil company, whether it will remain 920 gas stations owned by them as a very strong retail network and as a significant distributor of local employment, as a significant contributor for charging local budgets, I am talking about income tax and talking about valuable people from the INE who have an average higher salary than the other workers in the Republic, and that is why we believe that the INA strategic industry is of strategic importance to the Republic. Or whether by adopting this law INA will move its headquarters to Budapest and perhaps even then the national budget will be denied, by a measure of fiscal policy, that is, the profit tax. You need to be very careful. I repeat why, unpreparedness, collapse, not waiting for the end of the dispute in Washington, so to remind you of the MOL, it was launched by MOL, which is why again, for the protection of its interests, which, of course, will not watch, even in this economic area where there are no high profit margins, but will go to general rationalization. That's why it needs to be smart and not to think about any party's energy policy, so from any political party, energy policy that's a transport policy is your national policy, your wisdom, your wisdom, our wisdom, which is why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128296	Thank you. We're going to Amendment 42. A SDP representative club seeking to delete the word "request".
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128297	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128298	Honorable representative, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128299	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So you asked a question, or at least you implicated it, why does it matter what we're doing today? Well, it is important for one very simple reason, in the last three years everyone who has been following Croatian politics could feel an incredible fall in the transparency of the work of state institutions, this fall in transparency was not only detected by those who are directly involved in Croatian politics, it was not only felt by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it was also seen by those who do indexes each year that keep Croatia constantly falling. It's going down that the Duing Business indices are going down the same way on those transparency and corruption indices that show that we're getting worse and worse every year. And I don't think that's the goal of any of us who are involved in this country's political work. The passing of laws concerning the largest Croatian state-owned company, by emergency procedure when there is no single valid reason, is one example of such intransparency. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as I have explained, even when speaking on the third amendment submitted by the club of representatives, or our first but third total, the procedure concerning the application of EU law regarding the INE Privatisation Act has not been since yesterday. Two years ago, the SDP advocates' club sent to the parliamentary procedure an interpretation directly concerning this law and this infringement of EU law. We explained everything, but you ignored it, you kept the item in the drawer, and then when we discussed it, you started overnight to change this law. Of course we're looking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128300	... We're going to Amendment No. 43. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] A SDP representative club seeking to delete the words of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128301	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128302	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, as I said, a year and a half went by from the submission of the interpretation to the debate about it where we explicitly asked HS to take the position of the Republic of Croatia and to argue that the safeguards that exist in the Law on Privatisation of the INA are in the national interest of the Republic of Croatia, that they exist there to protect the public order of the Republic of Croatia and that they should remain. You have not done so, but have completely intransparently, without the knowledge of the Croatian public with the European Commission, agreed to join the amendments to this law, which we have not learned from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but we have learned from the European Commission, from their strict statement. Not a day today if you read the explanation of this bill, it is not quite clear, what are the provisions of EU law which violate it? Even today, it is not clear why the rules referred to as the EU's golden share or the special rights that arise for the holders of the shares provided for in these amendments and amendments are in line with EU law, and those that existed before were not? So let's not fool ourselves and this is now a gold share and this is now what is only conditionally acceptable under the provisions of EU law. And now, in 7 or 8 months, some new European Commission can dispute and where will we meet? Whether or not we change the Law on Privatisation of INA overnight, or at that time we get courage, so that our spine is not made of butter and oppose the tendency to level all EU rights, even when it is not necessary, even when it is not necessary, even when it is not necessary, even when it is not mandatory. Of course we're looking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128304	Moving to Amendment 44. A SDP representative club seeking to delete words and.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128305	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The explanation is the same as the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128306	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128307	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we asked for a word to be deleted and, when we ask for every word of this whole law to be deleted because we consider it harmful and irreparable and we will insist on it, we will insist that everything we have stated be voted upon. I will repeat once again, EU law is neither black nor white, EU law allows every EU Member State to advocate its interests, but provided it is able to explain it itself. If you're wondering why certain provisions were entered into the INA Privatisation Act, let me explain that to you. The provision, for example, is a provision limiting third parties to the possibility of buying shares without the consent of the Republic of Croatia. So I think it's only understandable when it comes to a company that has a monopoly position on the Croatian oil market. So the INA is still so dominant that any disturbance, for example in its distribution network, would mean that the distribution of oil derivatives throughout the country of pec. You are fully aware, as I am, that there are certain areas of the Republic of Croatia where, apart from the INA gas stations, there is no one else's, that these pumps are closed because of someone's political decision or because of someone's decision, which was conducted solely and solely by an economic calculation, in certain areas of the Republic of Croatia, there would be no possible distribution of oil derivatives. In today's life, it's clear that without the distribution of oil derivatives, it's not possible to live normal, it's not possible to live as much as the 21st century, and you're questioning it and not explaining why you're doing it. Of course, let's also ask for a vote on this amendment which is expunged by law and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128308	Thank you. Here, um, when I saw the amendment with the words and, I'm definitely convinced now that I don't need to read any more amendments, I agree with the proposal, so we'll continue, that's really that word and, and the amendment I'm looking for has convinced me of that. We're going to Amendment 45. A SDP representative's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128309	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The explanation is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128310	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128311	Thank you, Mr. President, Vice President, I apologize, thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, of course we're looking for a vote on this amendment, because, as in all amendments so far, we're only going to do this for one purpose, which is to prevent the adoption of this harmful law. As I was saying in the situation concerning the transfer of shares to third parties, which is the subject of this law and which remains, and you do not explain, for example, why this is in accordance with EU law, and the part relating to veto is not. It's also a problem with veto decisions. So, the veto was introduced to prevent a private partner even if it becomes majorityal, and we are not sure today whether MOL has become or isn't because today we're not sure about certain shares of the INA who is their real owner, and given your proverbial transparency, we can't even become sure because you still don't allow, for example, that register that we're starting to form, and that's the register of real owners, so the question is whether we're going to be able to determine here at the INA who are the real owners of all the shares. But there were certain decisions, very narrow those decisions, such as those relating to the termination of a company or those relating to the change of head office or to the relocation of a company outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia which could not have been taken without the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which means that if the owner acquires a sufficient number of shares, he can initiate a process of moving a company outside the borders of the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware of the consequences of the Republic of Croatia's economy? So, if the owner considers it necessary, not only can he shut down the refinery in Sisak but he can move the INA beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia, if this is your wish, please explain why you want it, as I said we are asking for a vote on this too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128312	Amendment number 46. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128313	The government does not accept the same reasoning as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128314	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128315	So, thank you very much, so we are already on several occasions today to see that this law is not in the interest of Croatian citizens, it is not in the interest of Croatia's energy independence and the question is why the HDZ Government is once again passing a law that can lead to what has already happened twice directly or indirectly because of INE, twice the HDZ government has fallen because of various connotations that have been made to the INU by Sanader and his lunch with the head of the company and taking bribes, to a consultant who has also done her job in the interest of MOL, and now we are asking ourselves here in front of all Croatian citizens why the Government has been hurried by the European Commission to amend this law, and has not been called for example. The trial of Sanader and Lex MOL, which would also be tied to Hungary. So why do you do it? Isn't that a threat from the European Commission, perhaps a fig leaf, which is at the expense of the citizens of Croatia, and in the interest of Hungary, it's a question that we want citizens to hear today and ask themselves why Prime Minister Plenkovic lied to the citizens of Croatia when he said that INA would be fully owned and now two years later by finding a fig leaf for its procedure makes everything possible for Croatia to lose all its powers over INO. It is certainly not Croatia's energy sovereignty, it is not certainly in Croatia's interest and regardless of the difficult word it is much closer to the high treason of the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's why we want to hear it today with all the amendments and vote on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128316	Next Amendment 47. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128317	Thank you, the Government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment, the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128318	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so when we talk about the thesis that we had heard from the government, that the government has no influence in the Union, it is also scandalous, because Croatia is still a co-owner of INE, we have over 40% stakes, we have a foothold in the INI Act that you now want to change to the damages of Croatia. Despite the spectral sale of management rights to MOL, Croatia still has 3 members of the administration appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and if those 3 members with their voice and the fact that they can't change things in the administration, they can't warn about some things, they don't have any influence in the INI, then maybe the government should consider and name some other people, and we know which people were sitting in the management of the INE and what conflicts of interest were at stake. So we can also ask ourselves who they are, who they represented in the management of the INE. They represented themselves, represented their interests or represented the interests of the Republic of Croatia and the Government that appointed them there. The government should monitor the work of the administration without any influence and voting rights, meaning which is planned by this law effectively abolishs the possibility of an absolute Croatian state to manage INO, and as mentioned before INA is so that the important link in the energy stability of the Republic of Croatia and I must again draw attention to that, if we take into account that most of the wars that are currently being fought in the world is being fought precisely because of energy and energy flows, the energy security of certain countries then we must ask ourselves what we are doing here and in whose interest we are doing it because obviously through the night, we are not working in the interest of Croatia, so we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128320	Next Amendment number 48. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128321	Thank you, the Government does not accept the above-mentioned amendment, the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128322	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128323	Thank you, Vice-President, so the unbreakable links between HDZ and INE, so all of what HDZ has been doing since the time of Sanader has been easy to let go of INE Hungarians, so now this finalisation of the final destruction by Plenkovic shows how much HDZ has been killing this company for years. And all the moves the HDZ Government makes on strategic issues are not in the interest of Croatian citizens. So now Karamarko had fingers in the INI, Sanader had fingers in the INI, and it's obvious that this one, the leaders of the current HDZ, have fingers in the INI. It's sad that we find out about all this later when the damage already happens and that it's incorrigible. And that's why it took a little more and more discussion and that's why it's important not to pass this law. And save me the god of HDZ tampering with all this stuff. So, what's next, the next one is I don't know how to sell water, the sale of HEP has already been announced, so everything HDZ does is working against the interests of Croatian citizens, and that's why we don't understand why all these things are simply broken over their knees. So, the government is always breaking over its knees and pushing certain solutions over its knees, and now if there's an interest in citizens, and some interest in people who do that, then it wouldn't be happening all together, but in the interest of Croatian citizens, it would be doing other things entirely. That is why we in the SDP believe that this law should be completely deleted and that the whole should go into at least another reading, and the ultimate objective and final task is that it is not at all adopted. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128324	The next amendment is number 49. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128325	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted, the same explanation as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128326	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128327	Thank you very much, so in this assembly we should respect the will of the citizens who have chosen to work in their interest and to pass laws that are in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and the days here for example of these amendments that are not accepted and pushed by laws that were practically not in a position to conduct a public debate because it was at a time of Christmas and New Year's holidays and did not last even 30 days, and then it was pushed into an emergency procedure, we see once again how much it does not take care of the interests of the citizens of the Republic. Therefore, our amendments serve to show that we have a government that does not care about the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is unable to adopt a strategy for the energy development of the Republic of Croatia, and in the absence of such a strategy, it dares to offer laws that mean in this case one radical direction of giving up the right to control the process in the INA and I wonder who will answer that, who will answer for it? So, Sanader, in a trial that is endlessly going on, where it has been proven, took bribes that he has granted to the Hungarians in taking over the INA, and today he is trying to pass a law that does the same, therefore, in a legitimate way to take away the citizens of the Republic of Croatia INA, it is truly scandalous, it is completely unworthy and it is also completely untransparent and therefore the citizens of the Republic of Croatia today have the opportunity to hear what kind of government they have and what laws that government is pushing through the most legislative body of the Republic. We also want a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128328	50th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128329	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128330	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128331	.../The speaker has been disfellowshipped... Mr. Vice President. Let me explain one contradiction that stems from this law. So, we go back two years and two months to the past and remember how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia then announced that the Republic of Croatia will join the purchase of shares of the INA, or how the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia then announced that we will return the INA to Croatian hands. No matter what was later not able, there was no will, there was no desire to answer key questions about this return, or how it would be done and how much it would cost, and what we will do with the INA further, it was continuously and heated by the HDZ that it was the ultimate goal of this government, that it was perhaps the project of all projects, the mandate of Andrej Plenkovic headed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, until the moment this law was released to the public. And why the respected colleagues and colleagues? Because this law goes in a completely different direction, this law is, in fact, aimed at facilitating the position of the Republic of Croatia if it really wants to buy shares of MOL this law makes it difficult for the Republic of Croatia, because from one moment where you can say yes or no, to the procedure where you have opinions, explanations, two members of the administration, etc. Introducing something to prevent is a huge difference. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment, and let me explain through the next few amendments all the fullness of this counter-digma.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128332	Next Amendment 51. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128333	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128334	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128335	So, as I have already said, if the Government of the Republic of Croatia really wanted to buy out the MOL stake in INA, it would not have fallen into the Privatisation Act at all, but rather, for the past two and a half years, it would have devoted itself to negotiations with Hungary, in order to achieve a price, it would have informed the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in the meantime it would have chosen a consultant to assess whether the price offered or the price requested by the partner, the Hungarian partner was justified and the Government of the Republic would or would not have concluded the procedure. However, the adoption of this law says something quite the opposite, the adoption of this law says that the government wants to take steps to ultimately reduce its stake because the government of the Republic of Croatia is already talking about persons who will not be members of the administration, but representatives of the Government of the Republic of Croatia without the right to vote. During the parliamentary debate, these representatives of the government of the Republic of Croatia are appointed voyeurs, they will only be able to propose to the government that appropriate proceedings be brought before the court against the INA administration. So, the position of the Republic of Croatia in INA comes down to a ficus, and it is evident that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is not doing anything to achieve that Christmas promise by Prime Minister Plenkovic, but rather doing the opposite. Of course, we're also looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128336	Amendment No. 52. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128337	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128338	Honorable representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128339	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, but I will tell you something, I would honestly be happier if the Government of the Republic of Croatia finally, but finally perhaps for the first time in this term, to come before the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and honestly admit that its intention is to privatise the remaining share of the Republic of Croatia in INA, which would be far happier, than with such false promises, than with such non-transparent law-making, because then it would be honest, because then we could talk about it metrically, because then we could discuss whether it would be better for the Republic of Croatia to sell what remains of Croatia's stake in the INA, and then with the money that we will provide, build something new, perhaps in the area of the oil industry, perhaps in the area of something else, but that we have a concrete proposal in front of us, rather than this life and trinkling that we have ahead of ourselves. Dear colleagues and colleagues are constantly making false promises, promises to buy the INA, from which we see nothing, promises that the refinery will not close. From what we can see, there's nothing. They promise to invest, as we can see, we don't have anything. And in fact, we see the process of decay and decay constantly in front of us all the time. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for the Republic of Croatia at this point, the worst thing that can happen is this status quo, this status quo that you HDZ are instigating. Dear colleagues, please and I appeal to you only one thing, make a decision as you wish, but let this decision be sincere and real. And then take the necessary actions to make what you want and do because what you're doing is a disaster. And of course, as for all the amendments so far, and as for all future amendments, we are looking for a vote on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128340	Amendment 53. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128341	That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128342	Dear Representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128343	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So now I'm going to get killed by my colleagues, especially my colleague Grbin, so he didn't realize it. I trust our government, I trust our prime minister, although I can list a few things where it's a little bit stuck and it's not right, so buying a plane, so fiasco, reducing VAT, so none of it, canceling agencies, so that three cancels, five sets. So the reduction in the number of government officials, ministerial assistants, state officials, and we have four thousand new employees at all. But you know when someone makes a promise, we stick to little kids, especially the Christmas promise, it can't be broken. And now my colleague Grbin didn't realize that we actually, now I have to open everything up to him, we buy time. So we're gonna sell them INA but it's investing in yourself, in mine, because we're gonna buy later. It doesn't matter if we buy that INA back for 20, 30 or 50 billion, as if they're gonna be paid by the one signing the contract. And that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128344	Amendment 54. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128345	That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128346	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128347	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. During the debate last week, during the interpretation of the fight, about the purchase of fighter aircraft, some on the opposite side of the assembly questioned whether we wanted the winning Croatian army, whether we want strong Croatia or want to be humiliated. That's what I reacted to because I don't want anyone to question my patriotism, not that way. But now I'm going to ask a similar question to colleagues who are not on the other side of the assembly. Do they want an energy independent and strong and proud Croatia? Do they want a strong INA that's stable? Do they want an INA based in Zagreb, Croatia? Do they want an INA that employs thousands of Croatian citizens? Do they want INA like that? If the answer to these questions is that we shouldn't vote for this law. Because I think this law opens up opportunities to happen exactly the opposite of what I was saying, so we have an energy-dependent Croatia, we don't have a strong INA, we don't have an INA based in Croatia and we don't have an INA that employs thousands of Croatian citizens. Because if we lose the share we have, nothing prevents owners like we said before to move INA's headquarters outside Croatia, it doesn't have to be Hungary, it can be some third country, it can fire thousands of workers, as is already happening in Sisak, that the business of INA, that they sell it further or sell some of its parts like retailing, etc., etc. By voting against this law, that's exactly what we're trying to prevent, and that's why we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128348	Amendment No. 55. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128349	That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128350	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128351	What's most worrying about all of us in the Parliament that we're in opposition is disrespecting the will of the citizens. In fact, for every question about the lives of citizens, it is important to conduct a quality public debate. For this law, the public debate was in a completely inappropriate time, and it even lasted too short. And after that, the law is pushed through the emergency procedure even though there were numerous possibilities not to give in to the pressure of the European Commission. I think that does not seem to be the case, here it does not give in to the pressure of the European Commission, but the pressure of the European Commission is used as an alibi to pass one of these laws that has been passed in a way that is completely non-transparent and that invalidates the will of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and at the same time is the alibi of Prime Minister Plenkovic for all lies spoken over the past 2 years when he claimed that INA will not be in Hungarian hands but will be in the hands of Croatian citizens. Therefore, for this very reason our amendments, and that is why we are asking for a vote on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128352	Amendment No. 56. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128353	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128354	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128355	Thank you very much, Vice President. You spoke of disrespecting the will of the citizens. See that citizens' will by the government should first of all be respected, there should be something called responsibility, responsibility, and responsible people then don't lie. And now, if we look at the responsibility of the people who run the Croatian government today, then if in this context we look at the statements made by Minister Maric in the 2016 campaign that he was then saying that, no, that we must not allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak and that whoever allows it, that we should stop dealing with politics immediately then we see that this is irresponsible behavior. Because Minister Maric was responsible and he's not some lowlife who doesn't know what politics is, so he doesn't even know what the job is, so he knowingly lied then not thinking about one day when he comes to power he won't be able to carry out exactly what he was saying. And that's the irresponsibleness. And it just goes on in this law and these decisions. It was also irresponsible of Prime Minister Plenkovic on Christmas 2016 to announce the return of INA to Croatian hands because he knew it was impossible. He knew it couldn't be done and he knew he wasn't going to do it, or he was doing it exactly the opposite, doing what Ivo Sanader started, and that's the complete handover of the INA to the Hungarians. And when he said that INA would come into Croatian hands, he might have thought that INA would come into the hands of Croatians living in Hungary. It's the only logical and rational explanation for such statements to me. Everything else was irresponsible and one simple lie, but it's a characteristic of this government and we see it from day to day on all their decisions. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128356	Amendment No. 57. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128357	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128358	So another amendment is not accepted for an emergency procedure law after a quality public consultation has not been conducted for it. And a law that represents a favor to the Hungarian side and does not respect the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So this law is adopted in an emergency procedure similar to that of the LNG Act in the Croatian Parliament, the Law on Floating LNG Terminal, which will also in no way address the economic, energy and, in particular, environmental problems of Omisalj, Krka, Primorje-Gorski County, which are their own acts, municipal councils, its acts of the Primorje-Gorski, the great protest and petition made it clear that they do not want to float the LNG terminal because it does not represent solving either the ecological, economic, nor the energy problems but represents the only convenience of the Hungarians. So as this law that is being pushed into an emergency procedure through the Croatian Parliament is a complete denial of Croatia's ability to manage processes in the INA and citizens of the Republic of Croatia with their money built, it will build how you decided to float the LNG terminal that will use only Hungarians again. Therefore, we do not agree that laws that represent mocking the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which represent the cheating of voters and which serve as an alibi for the lies of Prime Minister Plenkovic, who claimed everything contrary to what this law is about. That's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128359	Amendment 58. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128360	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128361	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128362	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of the island of Krk and residents of the entire Primorje-Gorski Kotar County who showed this to their signatures in opposition to the law, against which the profession, against which the unanimous decision was taken independently of party membership by the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly, was thus pushed by the government in spite of our warnings in this House of Commons, and even in one such day when the amendments defacto pushed the law into another reading, we then warned that in addition to all these illogicalities, contrary to the law, spatial plans, everything you have now mentioned that this law, i.e. by floating the LNG terminal, had no foothold in economic justification. And that's what we used to say here as parrots. At that time, we were told that we were against Croatia's energy independence, that we were wrong, that we were mocking the government's efforts that wanted well for our citizens, that it was not true that this project and it was ecologically invaluable. We've advocated this land variant. And then what happened? It has been shown that in several competitions on the project no one has reported alive. And if he had some kind of economic calculation of this project, and then we'd be scrambling investors, we'd fight for it. And in the end, it was that the government, instead of confessing, says, look, we made a mistake, we did a wrong assessment, it wasn't a good solution, we're pulling back, we're going to go to this variant of the land LNG terminal, not they still stubbornly like donkeys pushing that project and now they're going to finance it by the state. And in the end it will fail, eventually there will be losses that will again be financed by all Croatian citizens and will be the old, eaten by the donkey wolf. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128363	Amendment 59. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128364	Amendment 59 is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128365	Dear Representative Matic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128366	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So to even understand when someone is passing some law or anything to do should be placed in his position. From our position it seems to really betray national interests, we lose energy independence and so on. And yet when we put ourselves in the position of whoever makes the law things are much simpler. So since the 1990s, several hundred thousand jobs have been shut down in Croatia, so no one is missing hair from their heads. Besides, as far as INA is concerned, you can buy fuel at another gas station and besides not quote former President Mesic who was talking about something that someone can take out of this country, so gas stations can't even take away. And that's why you need to understand. The HDZ resonation is like that, we're gonna get some cash, we're gonna shut down INA anyway, look at INA workers in Sisak representing a member of the Most, a mistake, Mayor Sisko from the wrong party. So as far as Sisko is concerned, who cares about Sisak? And for some of the money we get, we can invest in our electoral body and thus HDZ remains in power, no matter what the INA cares about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128367	Amendment 60. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128368	Amendment 60 is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128369	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128370	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I also want my colleagues to welcome Horvato, here's what took over the bat. So when we talk about long-term strategic decisions that can have inconspicuous consequences on the Republic of Croatia and our economy, then I think that we make decisions too quickly and too easily, one of these is exactly this law. And this law that hasn't even passed consultation with the public in the way it should have been and how it should have been quality and exhaustive. So the profession also says its own and interested citizens and then political parties during the process. However, what's interesting, in the Republic of Croatia, is that the community of men and women is having discussions about the full, at least in my opinion, if we compare these benign topics, for example, the referendum on marriage, whether it's a community of minced meat and acidic cabbage, it's going to be next to us or about some monetizations that have never happened or about some outsiders that have never happened at the end of the day, but it's silent about much more important and far-reaching decisions like pension reform, such as tax reform, the reforms under quotes can be said, like INA, that's silent and this government and this ruling majority are constantly trying through the night, under the cover of darkness that I don't say, but using a blitz, it's going to feel not only our children, but our grandchildren and the praunties, and it's the decision of energy independence of this vote, which can be taken in terms of this kind of energy and the need to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128371	Amendment 61. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128372	Amendment 61 is also not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128373	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128374	Thank you very much, therefore, we have set up a whole series of these amendments, we have proposed precisely because we have not received answers to the questions that we have asked during the debate, but which we have also asked in public, so it remains irresponsible and still, we are now appealing to Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ, not having to go through this form of declaration on parliament, through the media, through the public, to be obvious, we are given answers to a few questions. So what was agreed at a secret meeting between Prime Minister Plenkovic and the Prime Minister of Hungary, Orban? Did Plenkovic agree with Orban that the Hungarians would fully take over the INA, so today we have this law on the agenda HS? Is that why the refinery fell with its paws and the government didn't get on their backs and didn't stand in the defense of the Sisak refinery, but it's just so quietly established that we can't do anything about it and that's where our hands are tied? Has it agreed when the Hungarians will fully take over the INA and will this INA finally move out of the Republic of Croatia through the registration of its legal entity in another country? And was the subject of their conversation in one segment also Hernadi and whether at one point Plenkovic might have asked his fellow Orban, who comes from his sister's side, the party, that Hernadi delivers to the Croatian judiciary because this protection of Hungary, Hernadi by his government, has been mocking our country, so for years they have been protecting their manager in MOL who has destroyed the Croatian national company with their decisions and who has paid bribes to bring their interests to that end, they protect him, and we have done nothing about handing him over to the Croatian judiciary. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128375	Amendment 62. The SDP's club is so important that I will still read what it is, is it proposed to delete words from, please be obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128376	Therefore, Amendment 62 is not accepted for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128377	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128378	Thank you very much. Our amendments aim to point to a number of issues that have remained open, and these issues are so important that I will ask these questions that my colleague Djujic has asked once more so that the citizens will hear these questions and see if I can find answers to them through this law between the lines. So, what did Prime Minister Plenkovic secretly negotiate at a meeting with Orban? Did Mr. Plenkovic and Mr. Orbana agree that the Hungarians would take over the INA completely? Did he also agree to close the Sisak refinery, which is why all HDZ politicians should stop dealing with politics, according to Goran Maric? Has he agreed that when the Hungarians fully take over the INA, that same INA leaves the Republic of Croatia? Was the subject of their conversation also of Hernardi, who was accused of bribering former HDZ President and HDZ Government President Ivo Sanader, and all to get hold of the majority of the shares, and so that they could be able to create conditions for them to have the majority to control and manage their business because that is exactly what this law is about. That is why these questions require concrete answers and therefore our amendments for which we are seeking a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128379	The next amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is No. 63.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128380	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128381	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128382	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The whole series of questions remained irresponsible and a whole series of questions, in fact we are not just looking for answers to them, looking for the entire Croatian public, political and other. Why the rush? Why two years have been waiting and nothing has been done since the announcement of 2016.? Was the subject of Prime Minister Plenkovic's talks with Prime Minister Orban also MOL, i.e. INA, and MOL's share in INA? Did the meeting discuss the closure of the Sisak refinery, is that agreed? Has Prime Minister Plenkovic agreed that when MOL fully takes over the INA, that same INA, or its headquarters, is being removed from the Republic of Croatia? Was the subject of their conversation also by Hernardi, who was accused of giving bribes to former HDZ president and HDZ Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, and all to get hold of the majority package of shares, and to create the conditions for someone, out of someone's interest, not knowing whose, because Croatia definitely does not, has a sufficient majority to control and manage business. And at the end of the day we have to ask ourselves whose interest it is because the interest of Croatian citizens, the interest of the citizens of Sisak-Moslavina County, the coastal-goranska, Osijek-Baranja, Zagreb and all other counties, is definitely not and therefore we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128383	Amendment 64. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128384	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128385	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128386	That's right, colleague Hajdukovic. So despite Minister Marić's claims that the Croatian government, or the Croatian state, has no influence on decision-making in the INI, are scandalous and false, so Croatia still has about 40% of the stakes owned by the INE, has 3 members of the administration, who can influence decisions or at least try to influence decisions in that society or set this up in some way because they are members of the administration, on the other hand, should at least stand behind them the Croatian government that appointed them, if they can't influence administrations, then the government can replace them and should replace them with someone who could. On the other hand, this bill of law solution that offers completely erases this state that we have now which is worse than it was 5, 6 years ago but is better than what HDZ is proposing now, and that is, they suggest that we no longer have these 3 members of the administration, but that we have 2 observers who would name the Government inside so on. voyeurs who wouldn't have any influence in making decisions, who couldn't even try to do anything but just watch what this new administration is making, which decisions are directed at, I wonder if it might be one of the next decisions after shutting down the refinery in Sisak and shutting down that refinery in Rijeka. Is this the next step to destroying the Croatian energy independence of the administration in which Croatia would no longer have a member, but only some observers. That's why this law isn't good, because this law is tearing down our rights as much as we still have the influence we have right now. So, this law is a clean extradition of INE completely into the Hungarian hands and that is the process started by Sanader and ended by Plenkovic, which is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128387	The next amendment is 65. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128388	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128389	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I will rely on what my colleague Djujic was saying, so the refinery in Sisak is closing, it's not just an economic issue. Sisak-Moslavina County, which was also affected by the destruction of the Homeland War, but in which it hasn't been too much invested since the Homeland War on here if we're going to be very honest. And now, fellow Djujic, as you said, we have three members of the INI administration who protect Croatian interests, so I guess the interests of people living in Sisak-Moslavina County, and then the minister who said he would stop dealing with politics, but that the refinery in Sisak will not be closed. And then we wonder what kind of message it sends to the inhabitants of Sisak-Moslavina County, what kind of message it sends and what few remaining young people in Sisak-Moslavina County, so it's a message pack up people's suitcases, pack bags and get out of here because nobody protects you. You are not protected by the Government, you are not protected by the Minister, you are not protected by the people in the INI who are sitting there because of you that you should protect your interests and what kind of message is to Sisak, Clay, Croatia Kostanika, Nov, Petrinj, Dvor, Lipovljani, Lekenik and all other municipalities, cities and their inhabitants who are now watching this debate and who are wondering why no one has raised their voice against it. Why is a credible government credible only in keeping its promises? Sisak, which is already on his knees economically, if the Sisak refinery is closed, how many people will be out of work, how many families that will have to look for their happiness outside these cities and municipalities that I mentioned. How many young people will have to look elsewhere for their happiness? A lot, too, too if there's one but there's a lot more. Thank you. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128391	Amendment 66. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128392	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128393	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128394	Thank you very much, so these amendments that are not accepted and this law shows only one thing. To actually close the circle that Ivo Sanader started by betraying national interests, and here is this law that we do not agree to because we do not want to be involved in issuing national interests and losing any control over one of the most important Croatian companies INO. According to this, Plenkovic lied two years ago that he would return INU to Croatian hands, and now he uses this European Commission pressure as an alibi to hide his lie that actually shows the government's unworthy behaviour. And of course what counterpart Hajdukovic said, it is amazing that Minister Maric so sovereignly stated that HDZ would never allow the closure of the refinery in Sisak because of the importance it has for the economy and that it would rather stop dealing with politics than allow closure. I expect that in a moment that does not give God to happen that indeed Mr. Maric and everyone around him cease to deal with politics, and we do not want to be remembered in Croatian history as parliamentary representatives who have handed over the INA to the Hungarian hands, so we are asking for a vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128395	Amendment 67. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128396	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128397	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128398	So not only are the statements made by Minister Maric in this sense that, which he said must not be left to Sisak's refinery to shut down and that whoever does so should stop dealing with politics and that there would be a betrayal of national interests, that is, by this law, the Government fully surrenders its management rights and this small influence in the business of INA raises its hands from the Sisak refinery and completely abandons the action of saving the refinery in Sisak. And precisely this law is a message from the government to all the employees of the refinery in Sisak, to all the residents of Sisak and Sisak-Moslavina County to give up fighting for the survival of the Sisak refinery and that this is the last nail in, that business there and that will completely give up saving. And in this way, the government becomes fully an accomplice to the Hungarians in shutting down the Sisak refinery, and tomorrow perhaps the Rijeka Refinery. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128399	Amendment 68. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128400	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128401	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So just what counterpart Jovanovic mentioned and fellow Djujic, how we want to remain remembered in history, as someone who, who left without a fight, who worked for other people's interests or someone who tried to change things anyway. I will quote the speech of a great Croatian politician who I think is very, very important and can be applied to this debate today. And he says, quote: “Lords, it is not too late yet, do not gush like geese in the fog. That you are all gathered here today just to perform one plot against the people, especially against Croatia and against the Croats. The most terrible thing is, the greatest sin and the greatest political mistake is putting your own people before the facts, i.e. lead politics according to their economic will without the people and against the people. If you don't believe it God gave you all to live so long and it won't be long before you see how the Croatian people in their Republican human consciousness will blow you away just at the moment you think that the people have calmed down and you've rode it well. Long live the Republic, lived Croatia." That's what Stjepan Radic said more than 100 years ago, a colleague and a colleague. And I think we're reliving history. Even so, they say history repeats itself, but just as a fool does not learn from his mistakes. If we've made them once before, why are we repeating them? Then we gave up sovereignty, so we agreed to be part of a larger state. Now we give up our energy sovereignty, which is almost the same in the modern world. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128403	Amendment 69. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128404	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128405	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128406	Thank you very much. So our amendments to this law which we consider to go against the interests of the Republic of Croatia aim to show the public how the rulings push laws that are not in the interest of Croatia and in this case are not in the interest of preserving Croatia's energy sovereignty. This law makes it obvious that the government allows MOL full control of INA. The government's drop in this process certainly shows a handlifting from the Sisak Refinery. I cannot disagree with Minister Maric's thesis that the government has no influence at all, it is actually a scandalous opinion, Croatia is still co-owner of the INA, over 40%. There is also a foothold in the INA Act, which is now changing to make Croatia lose its ability to manage the INA and come into the situation of Minister Maric. So let the citizens of Croatia hear, Croatia has 3 members of the administration and these members can have more or less influence on the decisions of the administration. In particular, they can affect the decisions of the administration if they stand behind them by the Croatian government that appointed them there. Of course, they have no influence if the Croatian government acts in the way it does now and gives up the possibility of influence on one of the most important Croatian companies. Therefore, this proposal, as colleagues have called it, to name some two voyeurs who will be there without any influence, is actually scandalous and represents a rude mockery for all Croatian citizens. So that's why our amendments, that's why this explanation, and that's why they're being insisted on being voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128407	Are you asking for a vote on the amendment? Amendment 70. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128408	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128409	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128410	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about strategic resources, in the last century it was coal and steel. And that is what the EU has actually created to eliminate wars in Europe and to eliminate in fact competition for these resources. What are the resources of the future? Energy first of all, oil for another time is safe, gas, electricity and water. Croatian water, we have some gas, we have some oil. And what are we trying to do? We have an announcement from the government that a part of HEP will be sold. No one's said it's gonna happen or won't. Electricity is definitely the energy of the future. Even our cars slowly cross non-electric energy, so they become hybrids, no more fossil fuels. Also in HEP is gas, i.e. there is HEP gas, there is LNG, etc. etc., etc. And now I'm asking you, all those moves that are being dragged or not being dragged, all those announcements that are being fulfilled or not being fulfilled are going in which direction? In this direction, Croatia will again be at the mercy of the decisions made elsewhere. And why is that? Because that's what she decided. She handed those decisions over to someone else. And now it's completely irrelevant whether it's MOL, Shell... Someone fifth, it's absolutely irrelevant, what's important is that by voting for this law we actually surrender without a fight. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We teach our energy market without a fight, without the possibility of interference in decisions to be made in Croatia, for Croatian citizens and which they will feel. It's something we need to stop our colleagues and colleagues. And if we decide on a decision like this, for a law like this, first of all, then we need to think about it, get to the consensus and consult each other. And that's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128411	Amendment 71. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128412	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128413	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128414	Thank you. Comrade Hajdukovic, you said there was an announcement from the government for the sale of HEP, which has neither been realised nor denied so far. And that's true, and you need to look at how that announcement came about. There was this announcement in a way that Prime Minister Plenkovic, on Christmas Day, on Christmas Day 2016 when he announced a grand press at the beginning of the mandate and it couldn't wait until the end of New Year's Eves but immediately Christmas Eve, it was a very important issue of, strategically for Croatian, announced the return of INA to Croatian hands, and then when little dust came down and when people saw that there was not much state-owned, nor that there was no determination by Prime Minister Plenkovic but that it was just such a bombistic announcement. And then when the impressions came together a little bit, so after a few days, weeks, people asked the question, experts asked the question, OK, and how do you mean to do that, what is the formula? Then after two, three days of the council they came with a grand idea of the minority maesteral, we'll sell HEP 25% to buy back the INU, then MOL is currently up the price of INE, so we planned to buy it for one part then MOL said the price goes 4 times up and then we saw that in front of some wall and since then 2 years there's nothing going on, 2 years we've been taping into the dark, a tender for consultants is being called, so after some time the price is being ordered from the Government, well here we'll do studies to see how we'll do it, even though we've already had brilliant ideas by Prime Minister Plenkovic to make the effect of it a call for consultants, 2 years nothing and then through the night the law emergency procedure and that's it. It's this law here that basically, uh, pass my concern on to someone else. We leave all the management rights to the Hungarians so that we no longer have to worry about these burning problems And that's what we're warning you about, and that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128415	Amendment 72. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128416	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128417	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128418	So, I don't know how many times we have to repeat today that the amendments to this law go in the radical direction of Croatia's denial of the right to control all processes in the INI and its release into Hungary's hands. It's probably the slogan of the HDZ government, and it seems like you've all been competing lately on who's going to be less credible. Here, specifically in this case, it is certainly one of the candidates for this title, Goran Maric, who claimed that in the event of the closure of the Sisak refinery, everyone at the head of it would have to leave, and today he completely forgot his promise. We haven't forgotten, for example. in the epic failure of Minister Krstičević and his most successful and best tender for the acquisition of planes, he said, as well as the unbelief and irresponsibility shown after the epic failure in further stories, fairy tales for small children about the acquisition of a new western plane as he says. But it seems, however, beyond any competition, that Mr. Coric, because in his unbelief, he ousted all the inhabitants regardless of the party membership of Omis, Krka, Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and here, together with Prime Minister Plenkovic, illegally, in violation of the Omisalj municipality's decisions, the Primorje-Gorski County Assembly, the European Charter of Self-Government forced lex LNG, also under the cover of some citizens to hear Croatian energy security. So under the cover of Croatian energy security, a project is being pushed for which no one has shown interest, but the citizens of Croatia have to finance it and will have to pay a more expensive price for gas. And now under the same cover, energy security, management rights are left to the full, i.e. the ownership of Hungarian INA. So what kind of credibility is that, I wonder, and I believe the citizens who follow our debate and report to us through social networks? I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128419	Amendment 73. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128420	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128421	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128422	Well, my colleague Jovanovic to this government has since the beginning been full of the mouths of Croatian national interests, determination, decision-making, solution for Croatia, and nothing is working. So, when we remember the start of the mandate, the first announcement and Prime Minister Plenkovic's first big promise was this, we will return the INA to Croatian hands. What we have today, we have nothing, so we have a law that doesn't come back, but completely gives INA into the hands of Hungarians, after which Agrokor happened, so the lex Agrokor that was passed, as we save jobs, we protect the company, after a year and a few days the only one who profited with certainty there are expensive consultants who secretly wrote laws that later consumed through fees for their consultations, and there are still numerous court proceedings, here are the announcements of the Russians who will now privatise the company, before the litigation ended, and while we still don't know who will ultimately pay, how many jobs will eventually be lost there. The last fiasco is these planes, announcements, strategic work of the Ministry of Defence, restoring dignity to the Croatian soldier, buying 12 fighter planes, ultimately resulting in nothing. So, this government is one big nothing, and then when it comes to all their failures, their incompetence, and their palpitability, then they start whining and crying. We didn't want Agrokor, we didn't want INU, we didn't want these problems, but the exact opposite of the responsible Government must be known to deal with problems, with any problems and must find solutions in the interests of Croatian citizens, if it is not able to stand down. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128423	Amendment 74. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128424	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, the same explanation as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128425	Thank you very much, I will refer to my colleague, Djujic, we are talking about energy security, national security, national interests. But it is interesting for colleagues and colleagues and dear Croatian public to have double standards when we talk about these national security and national interests. Because I'm going to remind you of an event from not so long ago, such as Agrokor, Agrokor is the private firm the last time I checked without any state stake in it was at the beginning of the crisis in Agrokor. lex Agrokor has been introduced expressly, the express state has entered into the solution to this problem, has been appointed as an arbiter and possibly has taken over some monetary consequences for the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, when it happened on May 3rd, Uljannik, where the state has interests and shares, so the owner has no sex, there is nothing, and now we are going to ask the European Commission if we can approach the problem. When we talk about the INI in which there is Croatian, Croatian property or refinery in Sisak, there is no Lex that will be brought to protect Croatian interests, but on the contrary, we have a lex which, as you have said, we, as you fellow Djujic, have to do with care of others, we raise our hands from it, so what good God can do to us, and we already see what is coming for us. The refinery in Sisak is only a prelude because you have rightly asked a question, tomorrow when someone else takes over the INA can make a decision on the closure of a refinery in Rijeka, completely justified by conducting economic assessments that they hold to have a foundation and don't have to ask anyone and how many people are then in the coastal mountainous county on the street, while in Sisak we send so many people to the street. This government will be remembered only by affairs and by driving people into the street, and that is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128426	Amendment 75. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128427	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128428	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128429	Thank you very much. Here, we heard from colleagues from Hajdukovic that this government is pushing citizens into the street, but does not respect the opinion of its citizens, here are thousands of citizens of Rijeka, Omis, Krka, Primo-Gorski County, on the street, protesting against an environmentally harmful, economically invaluable, energy-questioning, floating LNG terminal. And this debate today and the debate on our amendments cannot be seen separately from the story of the LNG terminal because these stories both go in the same direction, and that is to benefit some other interests rather than the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, through all our amendments, we wonder why the government of the Republic of Croatia headed by Prime Minister Plenkovic ignores the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia? Why is it that the servant obeys a request from the European Commission that should not have been obeyed in this way because there were mechanisms to move forward with this law only after the trial against Ivo Sanader has been completed? Therefore, this is the purpose of our amendments, and therefore, for this amendment, I am asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128430	Thank you. Amendment 76. The SDP representative club, similar to the other amendments, but it seems very significant to me, so I'll read it anyway, it suggests erasing the words from.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128431	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128432	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128433	Thank you, Vice President. It is proposed to delete the words from because it is exactly what we want to see from the head of the Croatian government a muscular mentality arises, and that is why we are talking about this because this, if it were not, if the head of the Government were to break out of the service mentality, then they would not have passed such a law, would not have suggested that this little management rights that we have in the INA at present go completely into Hungarian hands because then they would look at Croatian interests, would not serve the eternal emperor of the Hungarians who have had their paws over the Croatian state for centuries and now that we are finally free, now without fighting and without any war, we leave our sovereignty to them. On the other hand, we have Brussels under cover of which we are part of the EU, but this is what we want to be, we want to be an equal partner, not a servant, and that is why we have suggested that we delete the words from, because we want to start from the head of the Croatian leadership today, starting with the president, through the Republic of Croatia to the head of the HS, this servant habit of serving others, and that we begin to defend our country's interests, and that we are looking for a vote and about this amendment, I hope that the Vice President is now more clear why we have proposed this amendment and why it is important to remove the word from the heads of our leaders, I will stand away from the adjectives, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128434	Amendment 77. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128435	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128436	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128437	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have to explain the same things that are actually worse than giving maybe our sovereignty at least that of an energy other state, which is that we're not giving to the state, we're giving to the company. MOL is a company where Hungary has a share, but there is no majority, who has a majority, I don't want to speculate, I don't know, but we're talking about it, whose interest it is, who owns MOL, then later and INA, and who's actually going to build our energy policy, it's not just going to be Hungary because it's just a part of not controlling, it's going to be someone else we don't even know a colleague for, and that's all the tragedy of this, we're handing our energy sovereignty into the hands of some of whom we don't even know who it is, that's one thing. The second thing is, the pressure has come from the EU, it has existed before, but I am not a skeptic, nor a critic of the EU, I think that the Republic of Croatia is a place in the EU, but I must repeat and say that we will be as good in the EU as we are fighting for it ourselves, as we stand alone, and that we are safeguarding our own national interests. Being a member does not mean that we should ignore our national interests and interests of Croatian citizens, on the contrary, we have one broader framework in which we are fighting for them. Of course we agree to solidarity within the EU, but we also ask others. Why do we always have to be more Catholic than Pope? Well, we don't have to, and that's why I'm telling you that I doubt it, that's my personal suspicion that I can't prove, but this is what the English would say.../The speaker speaks in English/... that this is about the interest of individuals, which we can't even guess about right now, we'll only see it when this act is finished and that's why I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128438	Amendment 78. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128439	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128440	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128441	Thank you very much. So, these amendments we fulfil our obligation to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to accept the beatings of issuing national interests that started with Ivo Sanader, which, behold, Plenkovic concludes with this law and closes that circle. Two years ago, he clearly lied today that INA will return to the Republic of Croatia and this request from the European Commission, which is actually serving him as an alibi, so this is an alibi of a policy that is constantly being conducted in the Republic of Croatia and this whole law that in a radical direction denies Croatia's right to control the process in INA is an alibi for Prime Minister Plenkovic, who quickly 2 years ago lied that INA would return it to Croatian hands. Therefore, I repeat once again to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this requirement, which serves as an alibi for the adoption of this law, is not a new law, it is several years old and already several Croatian governments have had a problem facing this requirement, including the SDP government. However, we did not refer to this request by hand, and we made the strongest argument that today could have been made that in Croatia there was a judicial process related to the 2009 event when a suspicious change in the contract between Croatia, the HDZ Government and MOL was de facto committed to the INA's full management of MOL, regardless of what MOL did not master the 50 + 1 share in the ownership sense, so I hope that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia did not forget it. Therefore, when we had the responsibility of managing the Croatian state, we did not blindly follow the European Commission's instructions and acted as it seems, although this servant's conduct is actually an alibi for that lie and lie that lasted 2 years that Plenkovic will return it to INA in Croatian hands. We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128442	The next amendment is 79. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128443	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted, the reasons are the same as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128444	Dear Representative Djujic. Oh, no, Jovanovic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128445	It's all right. Our amendments want to show that in Croatia we must manage our own fate and certainly energy security is an important aspect of our destiny to this, the servant's relationship with anyone is not as good as this law has to do with the European Commission, favours the interests of the MOL, as well as the part of our energy security and is related to the floating LNG terminal, constitutes a service relationship both with the interests of the Hungarian state but also to the American interests where it is not respecting the will of the citizens of Omis, Krka, Rijeka, Primorjek, Primorje-goran County, in violation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, in breach of the decisions of the municipal council, in breach of the decisions of the Primorje-Goran municipality, not respecting the will now, by the laws and decisions of the Croatian Government, by floating LNG terminals, which all Croatian citizens of Croatia and at the same time there is no market interest for that gas, Hungarian citizens will pay in this kind of law, which will again, because of which makes their citizens in the law in the latter way that the law, which makes their citizens in the law. [[Intruder Reiner: You must agree in advance on who will, please.]] So, within a very short period of time, this government is passing two laws that are not laws in the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is why our amendments, the debate on them, so that citizens may have the opportunity to hear how this government mocks the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are seeking a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128446	The next amendment is the 80th, a proposal from the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128447	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment, the same reasoning as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128448	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128449	Thank you very much. So that's what my colleague Jovanovic is saying, so that this service and bringing it full mouth of Croatian national interests and protecting Croatian citizens, on the other hand, we do everything in practice. So we should basically be a country or our government, Prime Minister Plenkovic and HDZ should look up to our partners and how they do it, let's say I illustrate this situation, so let's imagine 10 years ago some director in the INA came to Hungary and the Hungarian prime minister gave bribes of 10 million euros to INA buy MOL or to get management rights without shopping in MOL and that after all this we have the situation that we have, would Orban give this little bit of control of Croatia today or would he fight to get what was handed over before all of this back to the original state? So when we look, the Hungarians when they had a problem with migrants and the migrant crisis, what they did, they lifted the fence towards the Croatian border, they didn't say we're partners and friendly countries, let's solve this problem together, no, they've lifted the fence, this is Hungary, you're getting along. We've got another story, though, getting fighter planes. The Americans protect their interest, they say, they can't, veto, Croatia can't buy planes from Israel, ours with Israeli equipment, why, because we protect our national interest, we're still friendly countries, we're partners, we're colleagues, but you can buy like this. This is what Croatia does not do but continues to serve and does not look at the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian citizens, but it is with such countries in some kind of a kid that protects their interests, and we need to understand that today we are an equal member of the EU, equal, and that we do not need to raise anyone and that we need to protect our citizens, so we are asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128450	Amendment 81. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128451	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, as is the case with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128452	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128453	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here you should rhetorically ask yourself, or return a little to the past and rhetorically ask, were we really evil prophets when you were doing lex LNG? Did all that we foretold really come true? And we foretold exactly what is happening now that there is no economic interest and that there is no economic account behind such a project, not at least this way. And that proves the fact that there's just no interest in renting space in LNG. There isn't. And we've actually introduced a scandalous provision into that law where we're like a club, I think, and I personally and some colleagues have made an amendment to delete that part, that the Republic of Croatia will make up for the difference if LNG is not profitable and we're still wondering whose account it is, we'll just see. What I want to ask myself right now is whether we will also be prophets when it comes to INA. Whether what I hope will happen, and I hope there is still some reason to reject this law, which is that Croatia is energy-dependent completely about others, that there is no influence in making strategic decisions, as regards energy policy in its space, that INA is not strong, that it may drown in MOL, maybe its brand completely disappears, that it is no longer the seat of INA Zagreb, Croatia, but that all tax revenue goes elsewhere, that it does not employ 1,000 Croatian citizens and at the end of the day not to be a Croatian brand. Will that come true? If it is to believe the experience and what we have already repeated in this House of Commons, I'm afraid it will, the Croatian public must know, just as all those who are ready to vote for this law tomorrow and therefore ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128454	Amendment 82. The SDP representative club is certainly as important as everyone else, but I cannot resist stressing its importance, because it is proposed to delete words from. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128455	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128456	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128457	So, Vice President, thank you very much. We, by proposing amendments, delete words from protecting Croatian citizens from the destruction of HDZ, therefore, why we want to make it clear, that this is regulated and what we want to highlight in this amendment, is that exactly what our colleague Jovanovic said in the niche of the matter, that Croatia could elegantly reject the European Commission's instructions, calling for a process still pending before the Croatian judiciary in this case, where things are not cleared up here. On the contrary, Croatia has welcomed the adoption of this law more quickly, to wash its hands, and to try to resolve it, and the decision is, the cracks of the European Commission are essentially a fig leaf. Let's see how Hungary handles these things. So they persistently, although a member, an EU member state, refuse to hand down Hernadi to the Croatian judiciary. And we have here today the situation, that in Croatia, Hernady, is being tried, in absentia. So, the man did not come before Croatia to look, defend his honor or reputation, and whether he is guilty or not, I am not saying it, but only this escape suggests certain things, but there is a question of the Hungarian state, which protects its director and refuses to hand him over to Croatia. While on the other hand, we, even though trials are being conducted, better handing the INA over to the Hungarians in this law. So that's where this government doesn't look at the interests of the Croatian state and Croatian people at all, and that's why we protect Croatian citizens from the procedures of this government, and that's why we proposed this amendment, so we ask that it be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128458	Amendment 83 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128459	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128460	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128461	Thank you very much. There is a lot of parallel between this law and the LNG Act, so this law, which without any dilemma pushes INA into the possession of an entirely MOL and the inability to control any process in the INA, significantly restricts the energy modernity of the Republic of Croatia and thus endangers the rights of the interests of citizens. And also, when we discussed LNG here, we pointed out that many problems will arise, for the simple reason that this project is not in the interest of the citizens of the entire Croatia, not only of the Omis, not only of the Primorian Mountain County, but of the whole of Croatia, because of the budget, the project of a floating LNG terminal is funded from their pockets, while income will not be realised, which will guarantee its sustainability, so according to the law, which the HDZ voted on by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to pay a more expensive price for gas in order for the project to be evaporative. And at the same time, they assured us that he was self-sustaining, that he was useful, so they lied to us then. As Plenkovic lied to all Croatian citizens, when he claimed that he would do everything to get INA back into Croatian hands, and now he is doing exactly the opposite, i.e., the INA completely leaves to MOL, therefore, we are forced to these amendments and ask for a vote on our concrete... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128462	Amendment 84. SDP Representatives' Club-
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128463	Thank you. And this above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasoning is the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128464	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm actually curious, which is the vision, which is the motivation behind all this, the other projections that will be the consequences of this law. As there were no projections or at least the public is not aware of what will happen to LNG, so we have no projections or strategies and scenarios, which will be after the adoption of this law and what will be after we willingly give up any influence on the adoption, decisions concerning energy policy in the area of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I get the feeling we're falling like geese in the fog. That's why I think we need to slow down, pull out the manual, conduct a broad debate, include here first of all experts, and not make overnight decisions, which can cost us a lot of money in the future, as far as we probably don't know. Or worse, colleagues and colleagues may know, but they won't say. Some may know the consequences, what the account of Croatian citizens will eventually have to pay. And everything breaks at the end, right over their backs, over those who pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. Because just as they're going to have to pay for the fact that the LNG terminal in this form is not profitable, so someone's going to have to pay for the fact that we lost this law de facto energy independence. What is it, I repeat myself and ask rhetorically again, all of you and the Croatian public mean? In a world where most of the armed conflict is driven by energy, energy flows and, in fact, at the end of the day, energy strategies and policies. Very much so. That means we've made another mistake from 1918 or 1102. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128466	Amendment 85. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128467	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. Explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128468	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128469	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Hajdukovic spoke about Croatia's energy strategy, which the government does not seem to have. So this government doesn't have any development strategy because if it did, then Prime Minister Plenkovic wouldn't be so quick to announce the return of INA to Croatian hands in Christmas 2016. And when he had already done so, if he had had had any serious intentions, then the tender that was called for consultants would have gone to the end, he would have chosen consultants, advisers who would have done then deep analysis and two years would have worked hard on that process to really and truly return the INA to Croatian hands or not to return. To say, look, we've run into ourselves a little bit, the analysis has shown that it's not the job of the future, that we should turn to this particular kind of other energy, electricity, that we need to strengthen the water supply, that we need to look for gas, etc. And then they'd say, we're focusing in that direction, and we haven't had anything in two years, and now after two years, we have this law that totally destroys Croatian influence in INA. We have a law on a lex LNG terminal that's completely financial and economically invaluable, but it's pushing, breaking over its knees, and when you're pushing something so forcefully, like these laws, then I don't know whose interest it is. Because you've been doing nothing for two years, and then in two weeks, you need to finish the whole process. Well, then obviously someone's in a bad hurry or a bad hurry. And he's not only in a hurry to the Croatian citizens. In the sense that it has to be over in two weeks. I wonder why this law is pushed so quickly by force. And these are questions that we didn't get an answer for during the debate, and that's why we have submitted this number of amendments, so that today we can talk about it again and look for answers to all the questions we've been asking in the past few days. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128470	Thank you. Amendment 86. The SDP representative club, again, is absolutely important, like everyone else, equally important, but it may be a little more important because it suggests eradicating the word "or". Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128471	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The same explanation as in previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128472	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, we think we need to cut out and actually throw out the word "or" because there is no choice. Croatia or someone else. Croatian interest or someone else's interest. There's no dilemma here, it's all clear. The Croatian interest must be the first one and therefore we want to delete the word "or". Croatian energy independence, Croatian energy, only as much as possible, must be the goal of this government. Energy at an affordable price to the end consumer and because of the economy and because of citizens must be in the interest of this government. Not just this one, any one. But this is especially because she now has a responsibility. The cost-effectiveness of projects, especially large infrastructure projects, which will cost us a lot must be in the interest of each government. It has to be. It has to be. Unless it's projects of exceptional national security, however, I don't think it's LNG. At least not in this form because we've discussed a lot about LNG technology and the way it's going to be set up, and then in the end line and the calculation. And again, we're making the same mistake. And again we're making something, some decision over the knee, not enough analysis, not enough insight into the facts and possible consequences. And what we're going to lead to, I say, I would not want to be a bad prophet again and again and to be filled with all that we have warned about, which is, therefore now that I'm not repeating myself, not only in which Croatia has nothing to say but also an energy-absorbed Croatia, which has no impact on the decisions of this segment that are being made, and it is potentially INA, which is not even based in Croatia. And because of that, when we choose, Croatia or, I don't know, someone third, MOL, some people who are in the interest of passing such a law, we always choose Croatia, and I believe that now you understand why we have asked to delete the word "or" and we are asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128474	Thank you. Next 87th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128475	Thank you. The Government does not accept that amendment. The same explanation as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128476	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128477	Thank you very much. Our amendments aim to point out the many illogicalities of this law and not to be, unfortunately, and I'm afraid it will be so, ominous prophets, as counterpart Hajdukovic said on several occasions because, if we do parallel with the Law on the Floating LNG Terminal, then today it is clear that everything we talked about, that we were right. So we clearly pointed out that it was not an economic, ecological, energy-efficient, but a bad and expensive project, both for the state and for all citizens. We have made it clear that LNG is neither strategic nor national. It is not in line with spatial plans and is contrary to any energy strategy. It all came true. The interest in the rental of terminal capacity in the binding competition has not been shown by any European or global state or company. Like any Croatian company. Except for HEP who did it under political pressure. Covic and Plenkovic made it clear that they lied when the floating terminal depicted cost-effective, self-sustainable, that there was a great interest in the countries in the environment, they lied when they boasted of its technological, ecological, economic achievements, when they guaranteed its, quote, fullness, cost-effectiveness, insurance of cheaper gas to Croatian consumers and the opening of a large number of jobs. So that's how they talked about the LNG terminal. And today we see that it's a completely invaluable project. We're afraid a similar scenario will happen under this law and with the INA. And that's why our amendments, so our debate to open our eyes to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm also asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128478	The next amendment is No. 88. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128479	Thank you. The government does not accept the same reasoning as for the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128480	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128481	So when I talk about cheating on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, about misjudgements, and this is about the ignorance of the ruling, then the LNG terminal is a great example. So they announced that the LNG terminal would work with a capacity of 2.6 billion spatial meters of gas and then they made sure and said that the minimum cost capacity is 1.5 billion. And you know how much was redeemed after the pressure on HEP? 500 million. So Croatia will build LNG terminal for public money citizens and the gas that comes to Omisalj will be the most expensive and I remind you just before I talked about how the prime minister said that Croatian citizens and consumers would be provided with cheaper gas and the opening of a large number of jobs. No, no cheaper gas will arrive, but it will be the most expensive and, at the same time, since no minimum capacity is provided for the normal functioning of the floating LNG terminal, according to the LNG Act that was adopted, which states that if the expected operator's income, the terminal will be lower than planned compensation will be made up of a prescribed income deficit. Therefore, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will get a suspicious, ecologically suspicious, energy-free, economically questionable project that will still have to be paid to build itself and will still have to pay the difference in the price of gas to make the project worthwhile. This is the credible policy of Andrej Plenkovic and we are therefore concerned about the future of this INA Act. And that's why our amendments and I'm asking for a vote on this, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128482	Amendment 89. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128483	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128484	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128485	So that's exactly what my colleague Jovanovic is doing, so this law is not good, because it completely shifts the influence of the Croatian government and the Croatian State from the INA. And if we look at the statements made by Minister Maric about this topic, I will repeat it again, and that is why we have submitted this number of amendments because of all the illogicalities that have been happening in the Croatian public. So Minister Maric first stated on the issue of the Sisak Refinery that anyone who permits the quenching of the Sisak Refinery should stop dealing with politics and that it is a betrayal of national interests. As a politician, I think he will be marked by that statement, unfortunately. But that's where he was supposed to watch it when he said it. Now, after that, he had another statement which is not the same harmless, which is that it is not a Croatian influence in the management of INA so large that it is not true because Croatia today has three INA board members, three members who have such an influence. So I can do something, I can try to influence and if I don't, I can report to the government what problems they have there and the government can stand behind them. And where is the power of government? The power of the government is in the laws right now. So the government proposes laws passed by the Croatian Parliament. And the government can pass any law, so we can see it on this example. So they pass the law, not as they should, but on the contrary, they pass a law that does not protect Croatian national interests and does exactly the opposite of what Mr. Maric said should be done, which is that this law is fully handed over to the INA in Hungarian hands, i.e. in the hands of MOL and that the government is losing any influence in the INA. And by doing so, the government raises its hands from the mammalian refinery, from the people who live there and from their employment. And that's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128486	Amendment 90. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128487	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128488	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, exactly what fellow Djujic was saying if we pass this law we actually give up the refineries in Sisak, we give up the people who live there, we give up thousands of families living out of it, from the INA, from the Sisak Refinery. But I'm also afraid if we pass this law to give up a lot more and a lot more people and a lot more families. We give up all those who work in the INA system, we give up the right to have anything to say and when it comes to the river Refinery, the people who work in the river refinery. We also give up people who work in the distribution network, all those employees in INA gas stations, we give up all those who work in the INA administration, after all, who, who are in the administration, are also giving up all those who work on the wells, who are technicians and all the other shares and business ventures that INA has. We give it all up. And if someone shuts down and thinks about ending INA's business, no one's gonna ask us anything, but nothing at all. Because we're not going to have board members, because we're not going to have a share in the INA, because, well, the government is running away from responsibility, and it doesn't want to take responsibility for what the citizens chose it for, which is to protect their interests. Here not only protects their interests, but also protects not only those who are directly dependent on INA, so those who live from INA's work, but protects not the interests and all those who depend indirectly on INA, so all of us, including us colleagues and colleagues, consumers and gas and all other services and ultimately the security of energy that the government needs to provide. And that's why we're asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128490	Thank you. Amendment 91. SDP counseling club. Perhaps the most significant of all the amendments because it repeats itself three times, so I would like to say, it suggests erasing the word "out", we have already heard partial explanations and we will certainly hear more complete, but here's the government's testimony.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128491	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government, the reasons are the same as with the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128492	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I will try to explain to you that we are asking you to delete the word "out" because we do not want Croatian politics to be run from any other centre and that Croatian national interests are determined from any other centre which is not Zagreb, which is not Croatia, which is not Markov Square, which is not the Croatian Parliament and Croatian Government. Well, that's why we want to delete this word "out" because as I was saying before who owns the MOL at the end of the day I don't know, Hungary as a state is part of it, but it's not entirely and there's no management rights, nor can it make such decisions in accordance with the Statute of the MOL as far as I am aware of it. And who else is behind it and who's the other person who wants to take over the INA and why he wants to take over the INA, I can only speculate about it and what's behind it. And that's why I don't want to dictate the Croatian national interest in Brussels and again I want to underline that I am not a Eurosceptic or a Eurosceptic, but I am a critic of this government who is unable to resist pressure and who is unable to say "no gentlemen, this is a Croatian national interest, we don't give this to you" and no one can blame us for protecting our interests, who blames other countries? You think Germany, France, Hungary, Austria would just leave something like this, so I'm sure it wouldn't, I'm sure that nobody would, and that nobody would really blame me, and the government of Zoran Milanovic wouldn't let that happen, it wouldn't change the law, and why are we changing now and why overnight? Because someone in Brussels has determined or said that it should be so, and I agree with my colleague Jovanovic that in fact, the debrisl pressure or the pressure from Brussels is only an alibi, this is the government's alibi, and that's why we're asking for an erasure of the word "out", I hope that now is clearer and we're asking for a vote, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128494	The 92th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128495	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128496	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128497	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary of State, you might be able to visit the prime minister if the two Croatian governments had been directly or indirectly tied to the INA, so it would be good to reconsider this law and the need to adopt it in an emergency procedure and wonder what its fate will be, given that this law is certainly not in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and this law by handing over the INA to MOL must be a major political downturn in the career of Andrej Plenkovic. Likewise, as today, I can repeat the questions arising from the unconstitutional, non-transparent law on LNG and everything that arises after the government's decisions afterwards. So, who's going to be in charge of signing a harmful contract to buy 30% of the more expensive gas from HEP, is that a fundamental move? Who will then be responsible for the failure or even extradition of HEP to Hungarians, which may be a logical sequence of this law that you propose to pass. And once again I can ask, and then the question is repeated and related to this law. How can you lie to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia so facelessly that the electricity and gas will not accumulate, and they have already gathered, and will collect additionally because it is an art. 12. lex LNG ensures that, in the event of non-market conditions of business or inability to meet market conditions in order to meet the needs of operators, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to pay for this more expensive gas through compensation. Therefore, if these are not enough arguments for our amendments, I don't know what else it should be, that's why we're asking them to be discussed and to vote on everyone, including this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128498	Amendment 93. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128499	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128500	Dear Representative Sasa Djujic
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128501	Thank you very much. Col. Jovanovic, and just like that, all the time this government has been breaking some solutions at speed and breaking over its knees, and that was the case in LNG in the Lex LNG Act when we also submitted this large part of the amendment, a large number of amendments through which we sought answers to our questions and these amendments were then also defended before the Government by the State Secretary Mr. Milatić, who tried to explain these amendments however, participated in the debate, let's say so, so he tried to bring down some of our views, so I remember that, so you didn't just say who robot, who today, the same explanation as before, the same explanation as before, but, regardless of the amendment, tried to refer to some of our questions. Today's silence or robotized statement on the amendment, the explanation is the same as before, and you don't try to answer any of our questions, I understand as if you yourself believe in our thesis still standing on what we're saying because you simply don't have answers to our questions, if you don't, give me an answer to the questions that we're asking here, or at least try to answer or defend what the minister was defending, let's say, when it was lex LNG, even though with that moment of time, you can see that we were right, and here you are already, at the initial stage, aware that this law is not good and that you should have gone into the regular procedure, so you're not even trying to defend the weights that we present. Because of all this, here, I am asking for a vote both on this law and on this amendment, and I hope at least that if I am wrong, you will try to answer some of the questions that we are asking here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128502	Thank you. The 94th Amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, since it proposes erasing the word "this", may now be the government's representative of the dramatic amendment, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128503	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The government doesn't accept this amendment, and it explains it by teaching me that the smarter you keep, the more you keep quiet, and the more I stick to it in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128504	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, if he's smarter, it means that I understand why the maximum political action of HDZ has become eaten by a donkey wolf, eaten by a donkey wolf, we make a quick decision, we don't talk much about it, we make a quick decision, and then what God gives us, later when we see the results, when we see how much it costs, when we see how much the citizens of the Republic will pay, then it's too late, you know, we've made a decision. Maybe just because we haven't talked about her enough, maybe because there wasn't an open debate, maybe because the professional public and every other public didn't have a chance to say anything, maybe that's why Mr. Secretary of State, not because he's smart enough to keep his mouth shut. The only thing that the opposition can do is warn, argue, that's the point of parliamentaryism, parliamentary democracy and the democratic political system, and that's what we do, and that's why the prime minister says that we're an irresponsible opposition or that there's no opposition, so this is proof that the opposition exists, except that the prime minister can afford to vote out with his club representatives and his political satellites whatever comes to his mind, and this kind of hurtful decision and ate a donkey wolf in the case of Agrokor because who knows what will eventually turn out to be the owner, who will eventually be the owner of the wolf at LNG, it will be paid by Croatian citizens, eaten by the donkey wolf, by all means and as far as the closure of the Sisak refinery and as regards the INA. Do you really think that we are glad to be a wicked prophet and to say what will happen? Well, no, I'd rather spend this day on a constructive debate, let's say, what is the plan of the Croatian energy strategy, let's say by 2030, than that we have to warn that this is a scandalous decision bordering treason, but it will only show time, which is why we are asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128506	Amendment 95. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128507	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government because it does not consider it to be aimed at a better nomotechnical expression.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128508	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128509	Mr. Secretary of State, I can partially accept your argument to stick to this smarter you are when you're silent, because since the last time you defended the passing of the Lex LNG Act, and now it's proven that everything you said at that time is not true or that we were right, then it's clear to me that you've learned a lesson, so that today you're not even trying to defend these things, and therefore I accept your argument and here, I believe that by the end you'll leave us to be denied for these questions to which there's simply no answer, there's no answer why the government is doing this, why over the knee at speed is passing a law that gives away and this little control rights in INA which so far has, unless it's the completion of the process that Ivo Sanader started, and the end of it's just being done by means, and it's the fact that it's only a million dollars that we'll be left to see. Whether the adoption of this law is the conclusion of this HDZ process that Sanader started, which ends with Plenkovic, and that's the question we're asking, which I see, Secretary of State, if you don't have an answer and I agree with this, in your place I would stick to that smarter silence than you have to defend something indefensible today, so I support your reasoning. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128510	96th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128511	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government because it is not aimed at a better nomotechnical statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128512	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128513	Thank you very much. So here we are, for several hours, persistently pointing to all the minuses of this law and how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rarely sell stories that are completely baseless, not to be rude now, so I don't tell lies. Well, here, for example. Let's remember another story about LNG where the president of the Republic of Croatia, together with the US ambassador, said that the Republic of Croatia, I quote, "will be a regional leader in natural gas supply," so now I ask Mrs. The president, as well as Mr. Ambassador and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, for whom it will be a leader when there is not a single gas buyer from our future floating LNG terminal, so none, of the 2.6 billion at the end of 500 million cubic gas purchased, and practically all of it from HEP that had to go under pressure to work that at the beginning was 30% more expensive than the gas he could get. Therefore, Hungary, which is directly interested there, does not need gas from our floating LNG terminal because it has cheaper gas to get from Russia, Romania, Slovakia, at last, the same amount of gas can get cheaper through Croatian platforms on the northern Adriatic. So, this expensive LNG terminal gas to which it's intended? To us, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who will build with their money an expensive floating LNG terminal to get more expensive gas from which they will have to pay extra. There, it is a credible HDZ through the LNG Act and a credible HDZ through the INA Act to be left to MOL, so I demand a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128514	Amendment 97. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128515	Thank you. That amendment is not accepted by the Government. The explanation is the same as in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128516	The answer of the respected representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128517	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. They say old Latins, silence is gold, but not always. I do not want me, nor my colleagues and colleagues from my party to be remembered for keeping our mouths shut, which cost a lot of money. So we didn't shut up or the LNG terminal, so we won't shut up or this law that we consider harmful. In fact, when we talk about gas business, it's already mentioned a loss of 6 billion, 6 billion, colleagues and colleagues. If we consider that the Croatian budget is about 160 billion kuna, now if I have sinned in a few billion more or less, but you see what the percentage is, it is almost 10%, 5%, 5% of the Croatian budget is a lot, very much for the failure that could have been avoided, for the gap we warned about. And just because we're saying that the consequences of passing this law are inconceivable, that we don't know what the ultimate outcome is, that we don't know why this is done because we didn't get an answer to a whole series of questions that we think are very important, so we can't shut this up and that's why we can't vote for this bill. If the government wants and believes that this is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, then let us answer the questions that we keep repeating, why they kept silent for two years now, why now over the knee, why not, why not consult with the generally interested public, why, why, why, why, why, why, by tomorrow, we can talk about, that we've got satisfactory answers, to see in it some future, so we might be Z, but we haven't got them and that's what we want to warn about. We want to warn that we did not get answers, that the Croatian public did not receive answers just as we did when we passed the Law on LNG and that we will not be silent about it, so it is our responsibility and political responsibility, and also historical if I can say so and therefore ask for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128518	Amendment 98. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128519	That amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128520	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128521	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State today and last week when we submitted these amendments to the HDZ, they asked me why we are doing this. The reason is very simple. We're doing this because it's our duty, we're the opposition, we don't have the ability to pass laws, we don't have the necessary majority, if we had a position, and if we didn't have to act like you're acting today, but just because there's a limited number of tools at our disposal as an opposition, our obligation is to use them. One of the tools that we have been fortunately beginning to benefit more often is these amendments. In situations where individual laws are trying to pass under the grain, when certain laws try to pass the ordinary procedure, and their importance is that our obligation as an opposition is to point to such behaviour by the authorities. And no matter how antipathic this may be to you and no matter how much you, with the exception of some as Mr. Reiner as I know I can sit here a lot longer than this, this seemed unnecessary, it didn't. This is one mirror of democracy in which we show that there is still a group of people in the Republic of Croatia who finds such behaviour as you have shown regarding the INE Privatisation Act unacceptable. And that is why not only will we not keep silent, but we will continue to insist on discussions both on this and on other laws that will be passed in this way just to show that this behavior needs to be changed. And I hope that sooner or later it will come to your head, because I think it was much simpler to accept the conclusion of the SDP that asked for a second reading of this law than to explain now 300 amendments. But since you don't want us to do it, we're asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128522	Thank you. 98th Amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128523	Thank you. That amendment is also not accepted by the Government as explained in the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128524	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128525	So let's be perfectly clear and repeat something that requires repetition. The INE privatisation law is changed in a procedure that is trying to hide from the public. The first consultation with the interested public is held through Christmas holidays, then the law by emergency procedure is included in the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, and then by studying the materials related to these acts we discover that the cool games took place months ago. I will repeat again, on 29 June 2018, the majority of the assembly also refused the SDP's interpretation in which the SDP asked the Croatian Parliament to support and maintain in the Croatian right order of the INE Privatisation Act. The ruling majority refused, but the ruling majority did not say so then, nor did the Croatian public inform the Croatian public that the agreements and negotiations with the European Commission had taken place several weeks after that. They wouldn't know it then either if the European Commission hadn't issued a statement about it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, such laws of importance for the Republic of Croatia cannot and must not be brought under the grain. It is up to us as representatives of the Croatian Parliament to point out that as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, it is up to us to ensure that such laws are conducted in order for citizens to have the opportunity to hear what is going on here. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128526	Amendment 99. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128527	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, as explained in the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128528	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128529	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, so I've also spoken to the media about this law and they've asked one question that I believe we're asking, and not just us MPs, but the entire public of the Republic of Croatia. What's it doing this way? So, Minister Coric, explaining this law last week, said we were doing this in such a hurry and urgent procedure because of our EU demand. However, respected colleagues and colleagues have been in this form for over 15 years. Such a law has been in force since the moment the Republic of Croatia joined the EU. Since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, 6.5 years have passed almost 6 years of pardon. Why now, after that time has passed, must we change something that has been in force for 15 years overnight? You are saying that Croatia has threatened to punish, but that is not true either, Croatia has just threatened to open proceedings before the EU Court, and we have found in the court's records that the procedure has never been even initiated. So, knowing that the procedure has not been initiated, knowing that these proceedings last for at least 2 years, the question arises, which is why you do not want this law to be discussed metrically, which is why you do not want this law to enter into consultation with the interested public, which will take 30 days of time. What makes you do everything in a way to cover up what things are the reasons for this shift, these changes? And you don't want to give an answer to that either today. I fully understand and you have one legitimate right not to give these answers, but then it is not the transparent policy you swore to, then it is not the slogan you planted and with which you deceived the Croatian public. Of course I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128530	Before continuing, we welcome the gallery of pupils and students of the Third Economic School from Zagreb. And now we're going to Amendment 100. [[Applause.]] SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128531	Thank you, the above-mentioned amendment is not accepted by the Government, the same explanation in the previous amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128532	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128533	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so just like that, my colleague Grbin means not only that this law is passed in the manner in which it is brought, and that the ruling avoids and consults with the general public, avoids both counselling and MPs. So, there are no answers to questions about this law, and again, we are objecting to what we have submitted 300 amendments, here being mocked by the way they look and what we have endured, but that's the same story as in this case of impelation last week, that the deal with the Israelis would not have been done, if we had received answers to the questions we have been asking for several years in this case of handing over INE to Hungary, I will call it that, we would not have submitted these 300 amendments today. So this is our way of getting an answer, but unfortunately neither after this debate all day long we will be denied the questions we ask. I will use the 100th amendment here, which means 30% of the amendments have passed, and we still have no answers, whether they have reached some secret arrangements between Plenkovic and the Authority at a meeting that took place, whether the complete takeover of INE by Hungarians was agreed there, whether there were random talks at that meeting on the shutting down of the Sisak refinery, whether there were questions about Hernadia and his extradition to Croatia. So these are all questions that we haven't been getting answers to for months. When we talk about the cracks of the European Commission, so we are here, that the interest of Croatia was cold, we could call for a trial still pending in front of the Croatian judiciary right around the entry of Hungarians into the side of the INE and there we could protect Croatian interests. No, we are quick at first reading, at Wednesday's vote, not even waiting Friday, quick to pass this law that is finally, finally surrendering Croatian, Croatian managing bodies in Hungary's hands. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128534	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128535	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, please pause from 15 minutes to 14 hours and 20 and please allow me to explain the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128536	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128537	Therefore, the SDP advocates' club is asking for a break to agree on further treatment concerning these amendments, the government of the Republic of Croatia and the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament have shown an incredible contempt for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for MPs. In fact, first of all, I will repeat this important law once again cannot be passed by emergency procedure. This was not common, this is an exception only in situations such as the one where the laws concerning the conversion of the Swiss franc were urgently passed, because of the consequences that occurred in relation to decisions that were external. This is about the procedure that began in 2002 by passing the law, this is all about the facts that have been known since the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, so since 2013. The implementation of such an emergency procedure is totally unacceptable, therefore once again please consider it, accept our conclusion let us go in two readings for this law. Of course we leave you time, I hope you will use it for this, and the SDP's Club of Representatives will agree on how they will proceed in further discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128538	Of course I'm giving you a break, so I'll meet you back at 14 and 20 here. Thank you. It's 2:00 P.M. We can keep going. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 14.25 HOURS]] Now the Honorable Secretary of State Mario Shiljeg will be answering on behalf of the Government, and we will go to Amendment 101. A SDP representative's club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128540	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of HS, the distinguished parliamentary deputies and MPs. The Government does not accept the amendment, meaning for that amendment, the Proposer has considered them and considers that they are not aimed at a better.../incomprehensible/... pronunciation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128541	Dear representative of the Voice.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128542	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, there were 100 amendments rejected here this morning that we tried to warn you that your job was no good. You're not doing a good job in the way you're pushing a law like this. It's an emergency procedure. I'll just remind you of some of the laws on the agenda of the assembly sessions sent by the government to HS in two readings, according to normal procedure, so they don't push themselves quickly and break over their knees. Final proposal of the Law on Marking, Final proposal of the Law on Protection against Light pollution, Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Sea Fisheries, Proposal for a Law on freshwater fisheries, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads, Final Proposal for a Law on the Activity of Social Labour, Second Reading, Proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity, Proposal for a Law on the Protection of Notifiers, etc., etc. With all due respect to all the laws, it is not normal for one such important law, such as the INA Act, which depends on 1000 Croatian families, to be adopted by an emergency procedure. There's something you're hiding, for some reason you want to push it through, and I'm afraid those reasons are precisely because of the way you came in with this law in HS are not laws that will go in favor of the Republic of Croatia. You work as Government in favour of your damage, you work in favour of the damage to the Republic of Croatia and I think Ban Jelacic is turning in his grave at the moment. Why? Because, in time, we are unable to pass laws and manage what we have in free and sovereign Croatia could defend ourselves against the interest of Hungary, and at the moment when all mechanisms are at our disposal, legal mechanisms to protect ourselves and to keep our Christmas promise that will return INA to Croatian hands, we [[Intruder: Thank you.]] This greedy, and we're handing her over without a shot fired. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128543	The next amendment of the Club of Representatives of the SDP is 102.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128544	It shall not be accepted from the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128545	Dear Representative Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128546	Thank you very much, dear assistant. We're sorry that you don't accept our amendments, and we're sorry that you're not listening to what we're saying because we're talking as friends who we're telling you are not doing a good job. So citizens' trust in HS is the lowest limits. A recent survey has been carried out that has shown that citizens' confidence in HS has continued to decline since 99, 2018. This shows a variety of surveys conducted in Croatian media, and the debate on this law, above all, the way you push the law, will not increase citizens' confidence in HS. So you, as a representative of the government at the moment and the entire government headed by Andrej Plenkovic, untransparently pushes one law into an emergency procedure with a mole conducted by consultation with the interested public using some pressure from the EU Commission as an alibi to pass a law that in no way contributes to greater security of the Republic of Croatia, energy independence, but poses a potential risk for one of the most important Croatian companies to go completely under the control of the MOL. It is certainly not Croatian interest and therefore our amendments are here to point out to you on a kind of impromptu second reading, but also to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that as a responsible opposition we do not agree to participate in the sale of Croatian interests, which surely leads to such a law as you defend here. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128547	Amendment 103 of the SDP Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128548	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128549	Dear Representative Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128550	Vice President of HS. I'm saddened that neither the government nor the ruling have enough hearing to make arguments. Because here we have to compete with arguments and that's what we keep trying to do. All these suggestions that we've been making, all that you've heard today, and what we've brought here is based on what we have, so we don't know what the government is going to bring, and why it's doing it this way, we're not informed about it. We were hoping we'd be because a lot of questions remained unanswered. And we didn't want, because of our conscience or because of our political responsibility, to let one of these important laws pass without another reading, even if it was improvised as my colleague Jovanovic said before me. At least we didn't get the answers to the questions we asked. But once again, we rhetorically, if not otherwise set up the Croatian public, that they know very well what they will vote on tomorrow in this house, for which colleagues and colleagues will raise their hands and who are not even during the debate, therefore, which was held last week or during the current presentation of the amendment had at least enough jurisdiction to hear what we have to say. Or at least through the ruling give answers to the questions we ask. We in the SDP are not like gooses in the fog, we don't want to get into these decisions, and that's why you won't have our support for this law or this decision-making. The transparency of the government is one of the basic predispositions for parliamentary democracy and it is our right and duty to warn, speak and seek answers. Our conscience is clear, but I'm afraid someone's guilty conscience may be paid by our children and our grandchildren, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128551	Amendment 104 of the Club of Representatives of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128552	The amendment shall not be accepted with the same explanation as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128553	Dear Representative Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128554	So the processor and the way this law is passed is the best mirror of this government's work. But there's something here that's more than that, and it's a mirror of HDZ's work. So, the story about INA is one of the entire policy continuity procedures, which began there in 2009, when Sanader, for counter-service, or, for taking bribes, missed the management rights over INA, the majority management rights to MOL, and that's the process that he started at the time. Furthermore, this whole sequel, for the last 3 years, has been known to announce the diameter of Plenkovic since the return of INA to Croatian hands, was essentially just a beautiful curtain and it is one continuity of HDZ policy, and it is seen in the adoption of this law. So, the peak and circle of HDZ policy is this law, and this is the final handover of INA management to Hungarian hands by Andrej Plenkovic. So, two years after the announcement, pompous, so-called. INA's return to Croatian hands, we didn't hear anything. Nothing was said, nothing was done. In fact, there's been a failure of the consultant's tender. And then finally, at two o'clock. We must speedily pass this law, a law which, even so small, reduces our Sanader and HDZ 10 years ago, destroys it to the end. Therefore, after the adoption of this law, Croatia will be fully bound when it comes to INA operations, when it comes to certain processes and decisions in INA, we will no longer be able to influence the quenching of the mammalian refinery as a country. So all that Goran Maric was saying back then in the pre-election campaign, it becomes a reality, but the only thing that will not come true since then is that some people in Croatia will no longer be banned from politics. That's why we're asking for a vote on this amendment as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128555	The next amendment of the SDP Representatives Club is 105.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128556	The amendment shall not be accepted from the same reasoning as the previous amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128557	Honorable representative of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If the mammalian refinery is closed, I will no longer deal with politics, the state property minister, Mr. Maric, called out. I will not allow MOL to close the refinery in Sisak, the prime minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Plenkovic, called out. We will buy it back to the INA and return it to Croatian hands, at a dramatic and press conference, the Prime Minister spoke 2 years and 2 months ago. What of it all happened? Nothing, nothing. INA is not returned to Croatian hands, the refinery in Sisak is closing, and what did we get? We have received the Law amending the Law on Privatisation of INA, which leaves the Republic of Croatia willingly, willingly, to the private partner MOL to make extremely important decisions. I will remind the Croatian public that it is perfectly clear, this law gives up Croatia's ability to veto decisions such as shutting down INA's INA headquarters outside the Republic of Croatia in a third country and giving up concessions for oil exploitation. So, the Republic of Croatia, willingly allows a third party, on the basis of amendments and additions to this law, to move to INA, to shut down INA or to waive concessions. Why? We don't know. Dear colleagues and colleagues when Mr. Sanader left management rights in the INA 10 years ago, we knew at least what he got in return, he got 10 million euros. What Mr. Plenkovic gets today in return we don't know, we only know that he met with Mr. Orban, we know that the result of that meeting is this law, but what's the opposite, we don't know. We in the SDP can't accept that. That's why we submitted these 300 amendments, which is why we explained 100 of them and something this morning. We do not feel that there is any further need to continue to explain, for everything is truly said. Allow me if I may for a few more seconds, regarding this. It's really all said. Dear colleagues and colleagues from HDZ do not have to accept these amendments, it is clear to all of us that they have been moved here just to point out the problem, but accept the conclusion we have proposed. Let us conduct on this law a second question and explain it to the Croatian public and to us, what are you bringing it for? Because she's talking, that this is necessary because of the pressure of the European Commission, she simply doesn't hold water. I will repeat once again, we insist on voting on these amendments, but we believe that after the debate has been held, 105 of them are too much to discuss and repeat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128559	Thank you very much. So we'll vote on all the amendments you've submitted, but there won't be an explanation or the government's position on them, if I understand you correctly. Thank you. Then we move on to Amendment 272, which was submitted by the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128560	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation, Article 10(4) shall be laid down by the Minister's right to bring an action against a decision seriously jeopardising the security of energy supply and infrastructure security, while paragraph 6 shall provide for the content of the action as an act. The rules granting specific rights to the State must be based on objective and clear criteria which do not interfere with market freedoms, more than is necessary in order to achieve public interest. This is only possible if the restriction, which is clearly and precisely defined and subject to judicial supervision of national courts, is extremely closely formulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128561	President-in-Office of the Committee on Legislatives, Marija Jelkovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128562	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Given the above, we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128563	Thank you. We move to Amendment 273 submitted by the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128564	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128565	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 274. A club of independent agents.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128566	The amendment is not accepted with the following explanation, according to the Law on Government of the Republic of Croatia, the minister is part of the government, on the other hand the State Administration System Act, it is prescribed that the minister represents a ministry and manages its work, and in particular implements a defined government policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128567	That was, therefore, an amendment to Article 10. A paragraph 2. Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128568	Thank you, Vice President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So it is quite clear that the minister is a member of the government, but it seems that the Constitutional Court was not clear that Prime Minister Sanader was a state official at the time when he made the controversial decisions. Look out, the minister is a member of the government. We cannot verify these circumstances that can occur during the acquisition of these shares and during the decision-making process. The minister can resign at that time. What do we do then? Then who will represent the interests of the Republic of Croatia? The government can't get away from this, it can't get away from this responsibility. The Minister may also be a technical minister and it's simply not well settled, but well, if you don't want to accept it, it's your business and your responsibility for the future. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128569	The club of independent representatives submitted it to the article. 10a century 3 is also an amendment. It's Amendment No. 275.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128570	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. Articles submitted. 10a century 3 of the Law is governed by an objective and subjective time limit. The objective deadline shall be calculated from today's vote if the representatives were present, while the subjective time limit shall start from the date of knowledge of the decision if the representatives are not present at the meeting. Such a proposal achieves better protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128571	Dear Representative Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128572	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, I don't understand. There. I just don't understand. The government of the Republic of Croatia appoints two representatives and then you say if they were not present at the session, and why are they even appointed? Which is their role, I really don't understand that provision. So if the representatives were appointed to be at the board meeting, then they should be there. And it's impossible that there won't be at least one of them at that point, which is why this part of the provision should have been deleted, unless it's intentional, here, just so that this, I've also said in explaining the legal proposal itself on behalf of the club, that this one just wants to stain the public's eyes that the government of the Republic will represent the interests of the Republic through these two members, which we don't even know who it will be, and here it seems to me that they won't even be in the sittings. So it's not enough to humiliate ourselves and leave the entire management rights to the Hungarian side, but to humiliate ourselves in this way, so we say here we won't even control you for what you're doing. And I demand a vote, Vice President, just one question. Since three amendments have been tabled, I do not see the amendment in the list of amendments. The 10th century. 5th century. Only two amendments are listed here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128573	I'm afraid I don't have one.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128574	Anyway, these were on an article. 10a, but to art. The 10th century. 5th century. ... Yeah, he was at the beginning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, then I'm sorry. I'm looking for a vote on this.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128575	All right, amendments of 276-313, i.e. 222, are amendments to the SDP's Club of Representatives, and we will do the same thing with others. Is that right, we agree? Thank you. Now we're going to Amendment 313. The club of the representatives of the Independent Lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128576	The amendment shall not be accepted with the following explanation. The entry into force of this law, 8 days from the day of its publication in the NN, is necessary to bring the Republic of Croatia into line with the EU acquis as soon as possible, thereby preventing the European Commission from filing an application to the EU Court of Justice for breach of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128577	Your Honor... Who's going, Panenic? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128578	Your Honor, Secretary of State. Of course, the amendments to this law, however small they seem, but they are still within a smaller law than 14 articles, one is changing and a little supplementing. But what's the point of all this is that every change in these articles certainly violates the position of the Republic of Croatia, whatever you touch. So, we can here maybe this is obstructive what SDP is doing, we do, this is the most constructive thing we can say, back to 2003. Then we'll go back so we don't have to listen to either HDZ or SDP in a fight that's more or less responsible for this situation that happened to the INA. It seems to me that historically, everyone is to blame, and looking at the present, we appeal once again, accept this amendment, that you and this government are not involved in something that will irreparably disrupt the state of the INA. Of course, this basic agreement is crucial. We can see from it that, even then, an excessive management right has been given in such a way that a member of the Finance Authority, e.g. He gave the MOL, they were directly controlling the finances. Corrupt Sanader's shop was given to them extra. Our judiciary has in no way managed to find strength or will, of course not counting all those obstructions of the many that MOL has been sending here, I will say both in political order and in the judiciary and everywhere, obstructing the verdict. If the verdict had been reached, then this amendment, he as such should neither be, there would be no more of that agreement, neither would we debate here nor have to listen to this. So let's just remember that tomorrow's adoption of this bill, without these amendments will certainly be something that will destroy the INA in the best sense we've ever wanted, which is vertical. I don't understand... the company. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128579	Thank you very much. That concludes our statement on the amendments. And we'll also end up working today. We will continue to work tomorrow, Wednesday at 9.30 and the first item will be the Final Proposal of the Law on the State Audit Office, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 499. Thank you very much. Have a nice afternoon. Here, let's welcome at least we've finished working, uh, students and students of the Third Economic School in Zagreb. You've come to an end, unfortunately, but you're still here. Session interrupted at 14.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128580	We are now going to the Final Proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of INA-INDUSTRIA NAFTE d.d., emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 565. Come in, fellow Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128581	Dear Chairman, I would like to request a break on behalf of the MOST Club because we should first conclude that this law is extremely harmful to the Republic of Croatia. The second thing we need to figure out is that by creating this kind of law, it's trying to wash its hands like a sawmill, that he's going to use you afterwards saying it's not his fault because you've passed the law, that you're going to justify yourself in front of the whole public, that's another thing, but that's the scenario you've already seen. We also need to know that this is happening today because of the already famous court tape, because of the already famous story about former HDZ president, your desire to conclude this story, it's all clear, but I'll remind you of one thing. You are on your way to this mandate with the story of buying INA, today you end the story in a way that the Republic of Croatia will irrevocably lose the INA. And distinguished parliamentary representatives, I really ask you to think again, don't be accomplices to a 2000-year robbery. And if you're hoping to drown in a mass of 70 and some hands, you're wrong because once or twice, you're going to watch who voted, who sold the Republic of Croatia, and in what way, and it's known that this scene has been seen in public a million times and that it's happened half-time in some restaurants, remember one thing, the moment you approve this law, you signed a death sentence and INA death certificate. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128582	Thank you. Okay, the break will be approved, just to tell you the concept, so we have two suggestions, one proposal from the Live Wall and the SNAGA, is one proposal from the SDP. So, first we will vote on those conclusions, then we will vote on the amendments, and then eventually there will be a vote on the law itself. Here's my colleague Bernardić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128583	Dear President HS, we are asking for a break to appeal to a crumb of responsibility for the Republic of Croatia, especially with MPs from the ruling majority because they can put this law into a second reading by voting today for the SDP. I repeat, why is it devastating to pass a law like this today? Because this law comes to the parliamentary procedure by emergency procedure, indicating that it comes after a secret conversation by Sanader forgive Plenkovic and Orban and may have and will have devastating consequences for the Republic of Croatia, especially for the workers of the Sisak refinery. The key thing is that the amendments to this law by the Republic of Croatia deny its influence in the INA where it owns 40%, we give up 3 members of the administration to appoint two representatives without voting rights, without decision and without influence. Are you aware of what you're doing? You continue the work that Sanader started, handing over INA to fully Hungarian MOL and Hungarians, it is a direct betrayal of national interests. What will happen after this law is passed? Will you feel good when hundreds of Sisak refinery workers end up on the street? Will you feel well when in some way endangers the existence of them and their families? This is another confirmation, this law that you will vote on today is that this government and this ruling majority, led by HDZ representatives, do not care about the Republic of Croatia, workers, or labour rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128584	Comrade Bunjac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128585	Thank you very much, President HS, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, on behalf of the Association of Representatives of the Living Wall and SNAGA, we are looking for a 10-minute break in order to consult within the club once again on a possible violation of the Constitution. 52nd, which states that the sea and seashore, islands, water, airspace and mineral treasure, are the treasures that must be under the special protection of the state. Today, we deliver mine treasures and a company that oversees them to foreigners and thus not only violate the Constitution, but do an act of national betrayal. Most importantly, most of the MPs presently in this House, whether they are from the majority or from the opposition, are intimately opposed to this sale because they know that they cannot be justified in any way, except that certain stakeholders within the European Parliament and beyond the reach of the Republic of Croatia are satisfied. It is unfortunate that this government, after announcing INA's purchase for Christmas 2016, today leads a diametrically opposite policy change has been made by 180 degrees and that this same government and the same party that makes up the main party in the government that created Croatia in 1990 under the song "Constitutional Bane Jelacic" and today leads the policy "Arise to Bane Khuen-Hedervary". That's why we're looking for a break because we think it's necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128586	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128587	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. We are also looking for a 10-minute break on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club in order to reconsider and point out three important facts to the public and to the adoption of this law. First of all, it is a non-transparent process of passing this law by emergency procedure because it is really not clear what has been repeated in public recently by Prime Minister Sanader, pardon Prime Minister Sanader, Prime Minister Plenkovic and Hungarians. Another thing that is unclear about this legislative proposal has in due time stopped the trading of shares by the HANF, and at the moment it is believed that the Hungarian MOL already has half the shares in the INA. And the third thing is the trial of the prime minister, former Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, who has been accused of having to rob rights by taking bribes for it. These are all serious things and at this point, such a very important law is passed. And don't forget that the law is passed in an extremely important and valuable Croatian company INA, which has a stable reputation in the world, has a stable business record. And by sending two representatives, what bothers me most and what we said in the debate and what somehow and only the Ministry of Casualty has therefore submitted imagine they send two men who will spy there if they have for that time. This is inadmissible, this attitude towards the Croatian state is inadmissible, we do not know which people they will be and, according to all things, they will not go there. Only if they have knowledge, and they probably won't have any knowledge at the time, so if they have to submit it to the minister at the time, we won't know if he's really going to be a minister at the moment, given the political turbulence, it may happen that the minister also resigns. Well, given the circumstances, we're looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128588	Comrade Glasnović, on behalf of the independent... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128589	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club because this is more and more farces per day on that INA. We know that it was a cave of thieves from the 1960s when that INA gas was founded, today we talked about the audit, there is a man sitting there, how that nobody in Croatia knows where the money is. What about white nights, oil fields in Syria, Iraq? No one has a clue about anything here, and this is like the mob accusing the crime scene of a mob, this is a farce.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128590	Okay. Is anyone else picking up? Comrade Bačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128591	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, I request a 10-minute break in order to send a clear message once again that these amendments and additions to the Law are being amended by the 2002 SDP law under which the INA law today should no longer be in the hands of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This law protects the interests of the government of the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to Croatia's role in the INA on the one hand and the other to preserve INA as a vertically integrated company. Furthermore, what's important to say is that, I ask SDP representatives if they feel comfortable today, when this government has to make their wrong, bad decisions in Uljannik and on May 3rd in the 2018 budget to allocate 2 billion and 800 million kuna in order to tackle all the bad, wrong decisions made by the SDP government. With these coins, we could build thousands or kindergartens or elementary schools, Pelješki bridge, hall, kindergartens etc., etc. So when SDP colleagues talk about who needs to feel uncomfortable today, then, first of all, it should be felt by colleagues from the SDP. We protect this law, the INA Privatisation Act, in line with the European acquis vital, national interests. It's scandalous when the SDP president says the government of the Republic of Croatia is disowning itself, disowning its three members of the administration, it's absolutely wrong. Today, the government of the Republic of Croatia as the legal representative of the Republic of Croatia continues to have three members of the INA administration, while these governments and these ruling majority of the roles of the Republic of Croatia in the INA can only grow and not be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128592	Thank you. There was a colleague here... Injury of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Maras, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128593	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You hurt the Rules of Procedure and you and your colleague Bačić hurt 238, and you are constantly allowing colleagues Bačić to be the last speaker for a free break so that he can tell his lies that he has now told here and hurt the common sense of people who watch Croatian television today. He explained that basically HDZ protects after Sanader, after the verdict, INA MOL, Hernadia, 10m euros...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128594	Comrade Maras, your time is up. ... Comrade Maras, you are being warned, please sit down. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Maras, you get a second warning, I take your word for it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And don't play the theater here, my colleague Bacic is the last to answer. I can't tell when one of you will raise your hand. So what, so be smarter, and you answer after him, don't do things like this to me. Here you go, pal Lenart. It's your turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128595	Thank you. I am looking for a break on behalf of the HSS Club because it is fascinating that counterpart Bacic wants to justify the guilt of the prime minister who was the president of Mr Sanader's HDZ who is the only one on trial in this case. I haven't seen anyone from other parties courting on INA. It's fascinating that you're handing over definitely to INA, the company you brought down, which MOL reduced to INA trade, the company that had great potential for research, which could've explored gas and hydrocarbons remained in the Republic of Croatia, but however we left it, we turned to import, we turned to the story around LNG terminal instead of trying to be self-sufficient in energy. in research into what we have in our underworld. These two members who are going to sit there, so this, this is the total farce you want to justify, all of what you're doing. Not only are national interests issued, this is the high treason of the Croatian people, to hand over the company that was known in the world for its strength and for experts and for the methods that explored hydrocarbons, refineries in Sisak, which is 100 years old, which will no longer be refineries, and we know what it means for the town of Sisak. You can't relativize it with a single story and you can't justify what you're doing in any way. The strongest company in the Republic of Croatia is dedicated to the Hungarians. Do you not wonder what you have done? It doesn't matter how much money someone pulled out of this, but we lost the family silver, without something that was for energy independence in the Republic of Croatia's most important company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128596	A colleague called Pusic on behalf of the GLAS, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128597	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for taking a break on behalf of the GLASs Club and HSU, let's clear up this situation a little bit, which is why we've all found ourselves arguing on this subject right now. Well, we found ourselves because during the HDZ government and the diameter of Sanader, management rights were sold in the INA above what they were in fact, which was the actual value of Hungarian shares. That's our problem. For these management rights, we don't know where the money is, we don't know how it was sold, and that's why it's being tried at this point by former Prime Minister Sanader. That's the essence of the problem, and that's why we're in this situation right now and we're arguing about things that happen after that spilled milk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128598	What kind of a breach of the rules?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128599	I thank Mr. President, he's hurt. In 238, because Mrs Pusic insults HDZ lawmakers by saying the HDZ government has sold management rights which is not true. The HDZ government has never sold any shares to MOL, and as far as... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128600	Comrade Bačić,... Please, colleague Bačić [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Comrade Bačić, please sit down, this was no violation of the Rules of Procedure. [[Indica Bačić: And as far as MOL is concerned, Mrs Pusic knows very well that this was done in 2002 when MOL got a lot more than the contract is allowed.]] This wasn't a violation of the Rules of Procedure you get a warning. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, not Pernar, but Bulj, here you go. My colleague Pernar, not you, but Comrade Bull, wait, here you go. [[Intruder Pernar: Honored Chairman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128601	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic always violates the Rules of Procedure in 238, and here are all the Hungarians who will vote for this law, as the Rules of Procedure is broken and I will break it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128602	Comrade Bulj, you are getting a second warning and you are losing your right to speak, please sit down. My colleague Pernar
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128603	I would like to say that my colleague Bačić is insulting the common sense of the representatives because he is trying to portray the replica as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. In 238, which he has no right to, and you were obliged to warn him immediately that he could not abuse his rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128604	Hey, buddy Pernar, why don't you sit down? You guys listen to what's been going on here? Did you listen to what happened here? Did I give him a warning? [[Intruder Pernar: Yes I listened and my colleague Bacic did not talk about the injury of the Rules of Procedure.]] Did he get a warning about that? Come on, please, I won't even give you a warning, you didn't deserve it. [[Intruder Pernar: But I answered for it before you warned him.]] Okay, now we have a 10-minute break, so we'll continue at 12.35 hours. It's 12.25 o'clock. You're doing a circus in the Assembly, you can say your position by saying it, by going out, but you can't play music on the speakers here during the break. Besides, I'd like to ask the Service to turn off the beep until we get back to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128607	Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government does not accept the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128608	All right, then let's go to the vote. I am voting on the proposal of the conclusion of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club. Please, let's vote. I find that the proposal has not received a sufficient number of votes. We are now going to the SDP Advocacy Club proposal, which proposes the adoption of a conclusion that reads: First: on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INA Oil Industry d.d. The debate was held in the first reading, Second: all comments, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final proposal for the Law. Please, let's vote. I find that even this proposal has not received enough votes, 42 were ZA, 2 were REFERRED, and 75 were against it. Now we move on to the amendment decision. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the representative Branko Bačić, the Club of Independent Representatives and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. We held a statement on the amendments at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament held on 19 February 2019, meanwhile the Club of Representatives of the SDP withdrew all amendments submitted by the Club to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Amendment and Completion of the Law on the privatisation of INA to the oil industry d.d., second reading of P.Z. Number 565. So, then we won't even vote on them, so let's do it in a row. The first amendment is representative Branko Bačić, he was accepted. The second amendment is the Independent Advocacy Club, which is not accepted by the government, so we must vote on it. Please, let's vote. I find that the amendment has not received the required number of votes. Amendment number 272, the Legislative Committee has been withdrawn. Amendment number 273, the HDZ Representatives Club has been accepted, and becomes an integral part of the Law. Amendment of the 274 Independent Representatives Club, the government does not accept, the government does not accept, so we must vote. Please vote. The amendment did not receive the required number of votes. The same club of MPs also proposed amendment number 275, the government does not accept it, so I ask that we vote. This amendment did not receive the required number of votes either. We also have amendment number 313, which is the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, the government does not accept it, so please join the vote. I also find that this amendment has not received the required number of votes. Now a colleague of Bernardic's called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128609	Dear President of the Parliament. Since we have withdrawn the amendments, this way I invite all MPs and MPs who do not want to participate in this shameful takeover of INA and lecture INA into the hands of Hungary, to leave the Assembly, who do not want to participate in the fact that workers and workers from the Sisak refinery and INA end up on the street, as well as their families. I call upon all MPs to leave the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128610	Thank you, colleague Bernardic. Thank you very much. You called, okay, that's fine. He can't. He said what he had to say, I gave it right, and it's all clear. We are now going to vote on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INA Oil Industry d.d.. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 74 FOR and 2 votes against, have been passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatisation of the INA Oil Industry d.d.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128611	We move to the following item of the agenda: - Proposal for a conclusion on the report on the number and credibility of voters' signatures and the legality of the voter signing procedure in the application for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative “People decide” on the amendment of Article 27. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. And these citizens' initiatives "True about Istanbul" are proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, please welcome colleague Zekanovic, who are you replicating? ... Still, are you replicating me? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Be patient, please, until the first speaker comes and then you'll be replicating. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] These citizens' initiatives "Truth of Istanbul". The proposal is proposed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system under Article. 60. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Please the Honorable Croatian Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128612	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a break on behalf of the Most Club, so we can consult before this debate itself, since yesterday as a constituency club, we asked for a checklist from the President of the Parliament. We have been told there are no control lists in the Croatian Parliament. We all know that the Department of Administration has admitted that these checklists have been destroyed. But what is much worse, we are not allowed to, as parliamentary representatives, who today should discuss this decision, whether or not a referendum will be called, which will vote on Friday, we are not allowed in the Croatian Parliament at all, to see the signatures themselves. I am here to order, meaning that the Prime Minister Plenkovic and the entire Croatian public, that Kuščević's Ministry of Administration under Plenkovic's order has minned the referendum and that it is necessary without delay, to return it to a peaceful reintegration, which means the ministry to the constitutional legal order of the Republic of Croatia, because under the Constitution. The first power comes from the people and belongs to the people. This manner of behaviour of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which denies the will of 400,000 citizens to call a referendum, is absolutely unacceptable to us, every Democrats here in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of his position on referendum issues, should be inadmissible. And I'm very interested in how certain HDZ deputies will be appointed on this issue. How counterpart Šipic will be appointed, how counterpart Miro Kovac will be appointed, how counterpart Culej will be appointed. It means whether to deny 400,000 citizens' signatures and agree to such counterfeiting by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and Kushtevic's Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128613	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji, colleague Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128614	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Prime Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives' Club is also seeking a 10 minute break, to send a message once again, that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System has proposed to the Croatian Assembly not to hold a referendum as proposed by the 3 referendum initiatives, not because these issues are or are not in line with the Croatian Constitution, but for a simple reason, which has been established by the referendum initiatives not enough votes, in order to call a referendum in the Republic of Croatia, which is according to Article. The 87th paragraph of the 3rd Croatian Constitution, prescribed that the Croatian Parliament will issue a referendum when requested by 1/10 of the total voter list in the Republic of Croatia, which the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in turn, the Constitutional Court later found that the required number of signatures was not collected. On the other hand, if someone had destroyed something, it had flossula and thrown away... by Professor Podolnjak and his colleagues from the Bridge, nothing in the referendum process has been destroyed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, here in the Croatian Parliament there are all the signatures, both the rightful ones and the ones that the government has found not to be valid, that they are incorrect and anyone who is well-intentioned, can verify whether or not they are and how individual signatures are found to be invalid. There has been an absurd situation here, that those who defend the laws of the Republic of Croatia, those who advocate, enforce legality, attack those who advocate illegality and demand that the Croatian Parliament carry out certain legal actions, in order to carry out a referendum. In that sense, we are asking for a vote, which is what we decide today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128615	Thank you, dear colleague Bacic. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128616	Thank you very much, Your Honor. A colleague of Bačić was violated by an article. In 238, where it says that we from the Bridge are talking floscule, we have made an official request, to see the checklists, as parliamentary representatives and accompanying documentation we are not allowed to do or exist. This is now a blow to democracy, the lists of control have been destroyed, the people have collected 400, thousands of signatures for the referendum, there is no evidence that the signatures of these 405,000 are invalid and you call the referendum because you too are with Lovre Kuštević, a colleague of Bačić, One of the undertakers of the referendum and the taking of the power of the people. [[Upadica Brkić: I thank my colleague.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128617	Comrade Bulj, colleague Bulj, I would ask you nicely not to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, you have already one warning and I ask you to consider your actions in the next minutes of debate and hours. I don't think the Rules of Procedure got hurt. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128618	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear counterpart Bacic violated Rule 238 of the Rules of Procedure, where in his own words he defamed me as an advocate, saying I was using spin to destroy the signatures of citizens who signed the referendum. I have always claimed in all public appearances and in the Committee's session that the checklists were destroyed, based on which the Commission decided which signature was valid or invalid, and do not... My words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128619	Thank you. Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. I don't think there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and I'm asking you not to abuse that institute to get word, you have other options, and other modes. I'm setting a break by 17:45. The session was interrupted at 17.31 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I would ask you to take your seats. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 17.51 HOURS]] I would like to ask the Honorable Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of fellow academics Željko Reiner to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for a conclusion, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128621	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. At its 49th session held on 6 and 8 February 2019, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament discussed a report on the verification of the number of voters' lists carried out and the legality of the voter list process and the request for the publication of a national referendum on the citizens' initiative, ‘The People’s Decisions’ on the amendment of Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 72 and the citizens' initiative ‘Truth of Istanbul’, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee has discussed the report in question on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as the home working body and the committee is the majority vote, 11 votes for and 1 vote against the Croatian Parliament to draw the next conclusion. Taking into account the report on the verification carried out of the number of voters' signatures and the legality of the voter census collection process and the request for a national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘People shall decide’ on the amendment of Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 72 and those citizens' initiatives ‘The truth about Istanbul’, provide that the assumption referred to in Article 87(3) is not met. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of those national referendums. It is also the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Parliament at its 49th session of 6 and 8th February 2019 on the basis of Article 166. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously, 7 votes reached the next conclusion. Based on 127. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are called upon by the Ministry of Administration of the Republic of Croatia to provide information on the accuracy of the information provided to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System of the Croatian Assembly whether the control lists which have been drawn up in order to compensate for the verification of the signature of voters by the Commission for the verification of the number and credibility of the list of voters and the requirements for the publication of the State referendum of the citizens' initiative "The People Decisions" on the amendment of Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the ‘People’ shall decide on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 72a of those citizens' initiatives ‘The Truth of Istanbul’, which contained the invalid signatures of voters destroyed. So these were two conclusions of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Allow me to read on this second inquiry which was sent the answer that the Committee of the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system received today. ‘Respected, relating to the request contained in the conclusion of the above numeric code, the following indication shall be given. All information on all the signatures and requests collected for the national referendum of the citizens' initiative ‘People shall decide’ on the amendment of Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 72 and the citizens' initiatives ‘The Truth on Istanbul’, further civil initiatives, valid and invalid, are stored in an application that is part of the DIP information system. For invalid signatures in the application in the description field, the reason why a single signature is not respected is entered. The signature shall be considered as a set of data that make up the name and last name, the OIB and the voter's own signature. All signed lists of voters collected by citizens' initiatives were returned to the Croatian Parliament after the completion of the check. The publication of information on invalid signatures from an application in the form of an Excel table shall be provided to the Commission for the verification of the number and credibility of the list of voters in order to compensate for the control of the list which are operators of the processor of the APIS I.T. data processing. entered into the application as invalid. Those tables and checklists should be different from those signed lists in which citizens' initiatives collected voter signatures. Tables and checklists were technical aid or work material. Tables are printed on paper work to facilitate comparison of data entered in the application with data in official records or with data on signed lists. They could also be used in an e-format without printing data on paper. Once the number and authenticity of the voter's signature were checked, there was no need to keep the publication of personal data of more than 40,000 persons per each request for a referendum on paper, since all the information on the signatures and the status of each signature exists in electronic form in the application and stored tables and can be re-printed if necessary. Here, I'd like to complete the report on the committee's work, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128622	I thank the respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, Mr. Željko Reiner. We have several replicas, dear colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128623	Thank you very much. Comrade Reiner, you are aware of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, yesterday the MOST Club sought to see the checklists which should be the accompanying documentation archived in the Assembly along with all the books signed. There's no such thing in the House. Everything else is a demagogy, and we can't make decisions about something that isn't there and trust someone who's destroyed the checklists. The ministry of Lovre Kuščević destroyed the checklists. The only solution is not to violate the Rules of Procedure or re-count where the parliamentary clubs will be included, where the associations that have collected initiatives, collect signatures or call a referendum will be included. Do not violate the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, the will of the majority. Lovro Kuščević stole people's referendum because there are no supporting documents, Mr. Reiner, on the checklists.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128624	Thank you very much, Comrade Bull. My colleague Reiner's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128625	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Bulj, you know that when I report to the board, I can only speak what the board has concluded. I can't talk about your personal opinion. So any replica of me would be inappropriate because I can only speak on behalf of the board. If there is going to be a discussion later, I will probably participate in it, but now I can only speak what I read. And I can't because it would be a violation of the Rules of Procedure to speak any personal opinion, either in this, or in that sense. And that's what it says in the Rules of Procedure, so read it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128626	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System for the reply. The next replica, respected counterpart Hrvoje Zekanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128627	On 11 April 2018, in this House, unfortunately I was the only one who defended the Istanbul Convention and announced the referendums, and then all HDZ people were either silent or standing by their prime minister. Some of the other parties defending the referendums today have been silent, some talking about marginal political groups that want to benefit from the referendum. But things change and I'm glad and it's not bad. But I'm surprised at you here, actually, Minister Kuštević. I'm surprised to you, too, Mr. Reiner. Besides betraying what you are, when you adopted the Istanbul Convention, you in the government and you Mr. Reiner in the Croatian Parliament, you still don't stop. Well, you didn't have to come to Parliament today. I don't know if you're ashamed of each other today after all this time still defending a document that is also the Catholic Church, which both the bishops and the people said was wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128628	Thanks to respected colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic There's no need to raise your tone. [[/Intruder Zekanovic: I feel like screaming. I'll fight.]] And I would ask you nicely not to disrespect fellow MPs in your replicas and in your discussions. Answer? ... No, I don't. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128629	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleague Reiner, I know that you cannot defend here now the position imposed on you by Andrej Plenkovic, it is clear to me that you are here in front of the Committee on the Constitution, but I am asking you a question as president of the Committee on the Constitution, why the Committee's session did not continue and why it did not vote on the proposal of Professor Reiner. The underling, the member of the Constitutional Committee who voted only against this government's conclusion that the count is being held again? You are well aware that the quorum has been broken since a colleague of the coat of arms when he learned that the signed lists, i.e. the checklists, had left the Committee's session and could not continue the session of the Committee. And you were supposed to call a committee meeting this morning to read to the Committee members what came to you from the Ministry of Administration, which you have just read to the MPs and to vote on the proposal of Prof. The bottom drawer. Why isn't that done?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128630	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Mr. Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128631	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Grumoja, you are either not informed or do not want to be informed, so I and I read clearly the session was normally held. It is true that at one point the session had no quorum because a colleague of the Podolnjak and a colleague of the coat of arms had left the session. During that period, a discussion was held on the second item of the agenda, it was the Law on the selection of members of the Council of National Minorities, the quorum was then re-established by the arrival of counterparts Batinić and co-worker Pupovac and voted on the proposal, and it was certainly voted on, discussed and voted on by a fellow member of the Dolnjak and, with 7 votes, the proposal was unanimously rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128632	Thank you, dear colleague Reiner, for your reply. Next replica, respected colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128633	Thank you very much. I think that after two times more than 400 thousand signatures that have been collected with the aim of approving the referendum that we can all be ashamed here and especially those who are responsible for such a solution, for such a decision, that more than 400 thousand votes have not been recognised, i.e. signatures. For what? For the highest quality, therefore the highest expression of the democratic will of the people. I think you should be ashamed of all those who fought and died for Croatia, because of all those who leave Croatia every day because such a farce and circus about it is truly unseen. And if we're going to do something about Croatia, I think we should give up this view of the referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128634	I thank my colleague Dobrović. His colleague Grumo was injured by his Rules of Procedure on the issue of Mr. Dobrovic. ... Okay, thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let's move on. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128635	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear President of the Committee, I am surprised that you have now read the report from the Committee and read the memo from the Ministry of Administration, and I have just been insisting at the meeting of the Committee on behalf of the Proposer, and there has been no one. So here's the minister, here's the secretary of state, and I'm asking you how they weren't present at the session of the Constitutional Committee when we discussed this report and when the minister or his deputy should have answered all the questions. And instead of having a session again and discussing this answer, we actually got a served written response, actually you got it, the rest of us couldn't even discuss it. But don't worry, we'll discuss it now, for hours if necessary, but the Croatian public will know what you've done and how you killed the referendum. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128636	Thank you, dear colleague of the Dolnjak. Answer, Your Honor, vice president of HS and chairman of the board, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128637	Dear Mr. Vice President of HS, colleague Podolnjak, you said so yourself, so here we are, in the plenary session, we can discuss it and we need to discuss it and we'll discuss it. So I don't see what the problem is. Thank you very much. And the minister is here, therefore, we can ask the minister, you can ask the minister whatever you want, sitting here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128638	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Željko Reiner, for his reply. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128639	Your Honor, Vice President. He's been injured. 60 Rules of Procedure of HS. I don't think we can continue the debate on this point because, therefore, academic Rainer, on behalf of the Constitutional Committee, has not read the official report, means anything about the vote, on Professor Reiner's proposal. He claims that HNS counterpart Batinic, Mr. Pupovac of the SDSS and other HDZ representatives at the committee session unanimously rejected the conclusion of Prof. The bottom drawer. We are not presented here on behalf of the Constitution Committee, but we have received it as information here in the replica, and I demand that an emergency meeting of the Constitutional Committee happen, if it did, because it is not in the official report. Uh, we just can't continue the debate. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128640	I'd like to thank my colleague, Grmo. You are talking about the responsibilities of individual committees, including the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so the committee discussed, made certain conclusions, voted as voted, you had representatives there, and I don't think the Rules of Procedure were injured. You have a relevant and competent decision on that, so as far as I'm concerned, I don't think you're right. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Reiner. I'm going to ask you the same question as the chairman of the Constitution committee, which is why, when the secretary of state was there, you didn't ask him for an indication of 40 grand so-called. invalid signatures? I'm going to ask you a question as a doctor who probably wrote instructions and so I'm going to ask you in the debate, if you don't want to answer now. Are yours, therefore, the instructions you signed in unread manuscripts, whether they are of value or not because these signatures are not valid under that criterion?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128642	Thank you. We move on to the next line, dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128643	Thank you, esteemed vice president of HS, dear colleague Reiner. I, when this initiative was launched, did not sign that it was held, so I did not support the initiative, but, after all that has happened, I believe that all this counting was contaminated, that you prevented citizens from expressing their position in the referendum. What was to be done, in my opinion, was to be referred to the Constitutional Court as to whether the issues were constitutional. In my opinion, the issue of national minorities is not constitutional. Questions about the Istanbul Convention are constitutional. And in that sense probably the Constitutional Court would answer and therefore I will not vote in favour of this report. I don't support what you're doing, I think you've contaminated the democratic process, and it's sad what you're doing, and I don't know how far you'll get that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128644	Thank you. Answer, dear fellow Vice-President of the Parliament and President of the Committee, Mr. Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128645	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Alexic. You know well that the initiatives referred to the Constitutional Court certain questions and that the Constitutional Court responded. Let me quote you parts of that answer. The Constitutional Court finds that, in the absence of explicit legal provisions, the Government has acted within the limits of its powers in selecting ways, to carry out the verification of the signature in a way that it considers optimal and their enforcement entrusted to the Ministry of Administration. Any different interpretation would call into question the minimum trust in the work of the state authority that must exist in a democratic state based on the rule of law. The Constitutional Court recalls that, in accordance with the views of the reasons set out in points 9.5 and 10.2. of this Decision, HS has the power and obligation to decide whether the assumptions set out in Article are met. The 87th century 1-3 of the Constitution for the signing of the State referendum, which includes a decision on the properly collected number of signatures. It's a quote from what the Constitutional Court is. I said. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128646	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of HS and the chairman of the board, Mr. Zeljko Reiner for his reply. Do you think maybe a representative of the government would like to do that? Here you go. Dear Minister of Management, Mr. Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128647	My colleagues, my colleagues, my MPs, my MPs, my secretary of state. Here, I welcome all of you. I would like to thank Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Academy Director for the correct position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which, indeed, maintains a truly unequivocal factual state. I would first say that these days certain parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives are trying to achieve political visibility which they are unable to obtain by virtue of their good quality legislative proposals, the foundation of good quality solutions, the basis of what they have done for their environment or for the Croatian state, or even their contribution to the EU, and then here with the most hopeless lies they try to get attention and deceive the Croatian public. So nothing has been destroyed, here is here for you ladies and gentlemen of Assembly and MPs, I am speaking to the entire Croatian public obviously not to these MPs who don't want to hear it, but here I am talking to them so that whoever has ears let them hear, absolutely no document in this pre-referendum activity for these two activities is destroyed. So, y, uh, so we have two types of documents that are the control lists of ad1. And two, Mr. Grmoya, please let go and you'll have a chance to replicate. So, first, the checklists containing a list of all the invalid signatures clearly stands for which any signature has been declared invalid, so either missing the OIB, or is an incomplete name, an incorrect last name, or a lack of a government signature. Never, anywhere has it been analyzed whether the signature is by authority or not, whether it's signed by a person whose name is there and the data is standing or not. That's pure lies. So there's this checklist, that checklist is located on the DIP app that's being stored in the APIS. Now that it doesn't exist in paper form, but it exists in Mr. Bull's app, I have to explain to you, that it's a very simple technology, you go with the mouse to the print option, then you do the enter and it's printed. So, we don't, and then you get that paper again, we don't act like you guys, you've been breaking some law today, I've had a chance to look here that you've broken some law, we don't act like that and we don't send such a message. I think you sent a message to our children, if you're not happy with your grade homework, then tear it up in front of your teacher. So you have the right to be dissatisfied with the law, you have the right to be dissatisfied with all processes, but do not send a message to the Croatian public, especially the Croatian children, to behave like this. As for, therefore, this is the part about cultural lists, he, I repeat today, exists in the APIS app that is stored in the APIS, and at any moment it is possible to print it. As for the signed ballots, all the lists are stored here, precisely in the room where you are sitting or in the building where you are sitting in the Croatian Parliament, all the originals are here and at any moment possible to make an insight into any valid and invalid signature, but of course in accordance with the positive Croatian rules, and not the way someone thinks. So, you've all been invited to come and take a look, you've all had the opportunity to sign up, but I haven't noticed that going to one of the MOST's representatives or any of the others checked in, came into the APIS rooms and made an insight, so you had a chance to do that, but you didn't. Why, because you don't care about the truth, you care about cheating on the Croatian public. If that were the case, it was confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and I'm going to have to, because obviously there are those here who haven't read the Constitutional Court's decision, so I'm going to have to quote the parts of that decision, quote. All the activities and steps taken so far regarding the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which we are discussing today, class and manual number, the date of 2 August 2018, and in accordance with which the Ministry of Administration is responsible for coordinating the activities related to the verification of the number and credibility of all voters' signatures and requests for the calling of the Civil Initiative Truth on Istanbul, and also this also wrote for another initiative, were conducted in line with this Mr Bulj, with the applicable legislation and which is in line with the guidelines, be careful and this, the Code of Good Practice of the Venice Commission, particularly in the section before the referendum procedure which is not regulated by the applicable law of the Ministry of Administration, was guided by the current practice, which is in accordance with the guidelines of that Code, not only the Constitution but also the Code, so far did not take steps, in the course of action and activities not subject to the applicable legislation. No steps, actions and activities have been taken that do not comply with the applicable legislation. Now that you haven't had the courage, I don't know what the cheeks are, I don't know what to sign up for, like all 122 citizens who signed up for insight and came to see it, you could, too, you're looking for it now, for the sake of a play for the Croatian public, some insight. However, Mr. Dobrović, we have just done this to the pride of the Croatian defenders who created the state, not what you said, because they fought for the rule of law, they fought for Croatian law in Croatia. No matter how much this law pleases anyone here or doesn't like it, everyone has the right to propose amendments to that law, fight to secure 76 hands and adopt that law. But as long as that law is in my power as the minister of government that I've implemented this law, I'm going to implement it, so I'd say, until the last straw, until the last drop of blood, we won't be here for populism, for your daily political interests to stop and do stupid things. And if that were the case, here it is on February 13, 2019. An independent personal data protection agency, an independent agency which is not subject to politics, neither to the Croatian Parliament, nor to the Croatian Government, including the pistachio, during the process of verifying the credibility of the number of signatures by the competent authorities, with regard to the public's interest, has been able to gain insight into the personal data of voters who have been signed in accordance with the personal data protection regulations, which could be accessed by representatives of those referendum initiatives, representatives of civil society organisations and respondents, citizens whose personal data are being carried out. You didn't answer. You didn't answer. In the light of the above, there is no legal obligation or justification for further insight into that information by the voters, taking into account in particular the interests and fundamental rights for the protection of personal data of individuals whose particular case data is concerned. So, in order for you to satisfy your daily political interests, you would now like us to violate Croatian laws, and for the sake of all these Croatian defenders to whom Mr Dobrović called, we will not allow it. You in the assembly can vote something different, but the government of the Republic of Croatia will not give it their salary. So, this way I thank everyone now, sorry I'm a little cold. This way I thank all the members of the Government who accepted this report, thanks to all the officials who worked on checking the valid signatures, therefore, it is 70 and some of the employees, the employees of the Apis, this is about the commission that was drawn up, employees of the MUP, officials, not officials, employees of the Ministry of Administration, staff of the Independent Personal Data Protection Agency, employees of the DIP of the Independent National Election Commission, thanks to a good professional job with which they restored the trust of Croatian citizens to Croatian institutions, which has forever closed their mouths to those who without foundation attack by Croatian institutions, and this is, we have had the opportunity to see, confirmed, and the Croatian Constitutional Court. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the debate that we have had so far, and I thank you for your future debate here today, for your argument, for the part that will be presented without arguments, but there are me and the secretary of state as representatives of the government that we are open to, and at any moment you will be given a relevant answer to every asked question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128648	I would like to thank Mr. Lovri Kuštević's management minister. We have injuries to the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128649	Thank you, Vice President. He's been injured. 238. because Minister Kuščević gave a lesson, so, fellow Bulju, as if his colleague Bulj did not know how to serve, I don't know, the Internet or anything else, and it wouldn't be strange from Minister Kuštević, he knows how to talk, but that the man who told us that he was using a private or official mail depending on the strength of the signal, gives a lecture, means, from digitisation, information, it's below each, below each level, give us a little bit of serious ministers, get serious Wait, don't give us a lecture. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128650	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Grmo. I would ask you nicely to calm down the tensions a little bit and bring this debate down to a reasoned debate without any trinkets, Rules of Procedure on the work of HS Art. 238 talks about the activities of the representatives. And as for the speech of the minister of the administration who spoke here as a representative of the government, I have read it as a thorough instruction and assistance to all of us so that we can get some information and indeed thank him and in no way do I see that he has demeaned and injured anyone, I ask you once again not to abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure of his colleagues. So, I don't think the Rules of Procedure are hurt because we're talking about MPs who are allowed to do what during the debate at HS sessions. We have the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128651	Thank you very much. The Minister has violated the Rules of Procedure entirely, in full, the entire Rules of Procedure, no argument has given where the checklists are, he lied as usual that we did not seek insight, yesterday we asked all the competent authorities, if it should be the control lists in HS, and not because you ripped them out and hid them, we don't know which ones they're not to sign, you hit the people directly, you're an ordinary It's a people's hoax that's being hailed. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] with the Praised Jesus, and basically all the principles that the Catholic Church and the Bible preach you violate. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128652	Comrade Bulj, the same answer as my colleagues to Grumoji, I ask you nicely to adapt your expression to this High House. Let's go to the next breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128653	Mr. Vice President HS, I believe you have heard, as we have heard, when Mr. Secretary said that a number of MPs lie and deceive the public to gain cheap political points, when they cannot do so by their work on the ground. Is that a speech that demeans MPs in HS? And it comes from a minister who, if only only the preferential votes were counted in the last election, you wouldn't have been a representative at all, if what we're proposing were in force, you wouldn't have entered the HS in order, so you're probably so much fighting this, what we're proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128654	Thank you. Dear colleague Podolnjak, therefore, you have misused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you have not called for an article or the entire Rules of Procedure has been injured. As far as demeaning is concerned, I've already told my colleague to Grumoji, I am asking you nicely to stay away from the abuse of the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure and I don't think that the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We're moving on to the replicas, to the presentation of the respected minister, the first to appear for the replica is the esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128655	I expect the minister to say publicly, to us parliamentary deputies who, now we will vote, i.e. When the conditions come to pass, about the most important thing democracy, about democracy, about democracy, it's a referendum, direct democracy, where the control lists are, yesterday we asked for the control lists to be seen by the parliamentary representatives of the club, we didn't get them, you lie to the public, you cheat on the public yesterday, all day long correspondence to the secretariat, according to the president of HS, we can't as Parliamentarians, we've been looking at HS where the checklists are like the accompanying document, they're gone, we don't know where they're not, hey, we don't know, so my people, so do you know what they're doing to you? Guys, do you hear this as the minister behaves? Minister, you wouldn't be president of HS with 200 votes I got more from him in the village, and you wouldn't be in HS, you're afraid of preferential votes, you're afraid You are afraid of the will of the people; you are afraid of the will of the people; you are afraid of the will of [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Listeners from Brussels and people like that. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj, thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128656	Comrade Bulj, I ask you to adjust your debate and speak to HS and please let go of some tension, don't be tense, it's a nice day today, it's night out, so there's no need for tensions, we have an answer, Minister Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128657	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. So I'm going to repeat what I said a few minutes ago, and the checklists are in the application of the DIP that's located in the APIS, and at any moment it can be made enter and start printing it. So they're not destroyed. And that we, that I'm afraid of the preferential voices, I understand you Mr. Bull, to be frustrated, to drop your ratings, I understand that you were... Mayor of Split Dalmatian County, so the people did not choose you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I understand that Grmoja was a mayoral candidate in Dubrovnik County so the people did not choose him and I understand that you would like to become a mere tribunal in some way. In all these election units, you were defeated by HDZ. Candidates for HDZ mayors and I am sorry that you are trying to gain some kind of popularity and trust in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128658	Thank you for your response. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128659	You've hurt the entire Rules of Procedure again, I've written you something, you haven't answered, you're telling me how many votes I've received. More than 11 grand, five times more than you, more than you. But President of the Parliament, one thing I don't know is how many times, 15 times. Me Miro Bulj, me, 15 times more votes than you and the President of the Parliament. So imagine the electoral system, afraid of the will of the people, don't answer the question. You're not answering the question, why aren't they in the Parliament, the checklists as accompanying documents to the signature lists. [[Upadica Brkić: Kologa Bulj.]] You're breaking the Constitution knowingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128660	Comrade Bulj, I'd like to ask you nicely, for I don't know which time, you're misusing the Rules of Procedure's breach institute. I give you a reminder based on an article. 240 with a word-absorbing. We'll continue with the replicas, the next replica, the esteemed colleague of Nikola Grmoy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128661	Thank you, Vice President. Here you should clearly tell Croatian citizens, Croatian voters, the referendum did not dare the Croatian people, so the referendum of the Croatian people did not dare to ban Slobodan Milosevic, but it is Lovro Kuščević, is Andrej Plenkovic, is Milorad Batinić, is Milorad Pupovac, is Academyman Reiner, is Branko Bačić and all of you who will vote for this conclusion of the government on Friday. So Croatia was established at the referendum will of the people, and if you were then, the question is whether Croatia would be, because this is your attitude towards the referendum and towards the people. Even Slobodan Milosevic did not dare forbid a referendum on the Croatian people, but you did, and that is what is embarrassing and I agree absolutely with what Dobrović said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128662	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of the Croatian Parliament, Željko Renier, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128663	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament has been injured. 238. .../Intrudica Brkic: Just a little while, colleagues Loncar and colleagues of Grumoja, I ask you nicely, that if you have any loose ends, get rid of them outside of the assembly and do not interfere with your colleagues in the debate, here you go, colleague Reiner./... So, I said what article was injured and this is a typical example of the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, the institutions in violation of the Rules of Procedure, and I expect you to punish your colleagues for insulting the MPs, you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128664	Thank you, colleague Reiner. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been injured. We're moving on to the next line, dear colleague Marko Sladolev.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128665	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister Kuščević, why we are looking for these checklists, therefore, because, on their checklists, the reason for the invalid signatures should be written, right. Yes, but in the report of invalid signatures, you've listed, I read that it's an unreadable signature. Here, I printed your signature, so here, I don't have a much better signature than you, so answer the specific question, is the reason for an invalid signature, is it an illegible signature or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128666	I thank you for your response, dear Minister Lovro Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128667	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank Mr. Representative for the question, so here I repeat clearly and loudly, in no case has he trusted the signature as the signature of the person who signed it, but if the information, the reading, one of the data, it means or the OIB that it cannot be read which is either the name or the name. In any case, we didn't go into the signature analysis. Each one of those signatures, i.e., the support that contained the exact name, the exact name, the exact OIB that belonged to that name and the last name, and it was lashed in any way, whether the fingerprint, whether it was just a cross or an inaccessible signature, each one was respected. So, even after the APIS check, our commission has accepted several hundred signatures, and all this is clearly seen and is listed in this report. Thank you for giving me a chance to explain to you and your other colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128668	I thank Minister Kuštević for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128669	Dear Ministers, I have one question, namely, the government is proposing to the Parliament not to call a referendum, because it has declared it invalid, now watch out for this 40,000 signatures for the first referendum issue, so that it lacks 0.88% or 3200 of the necessary 374700 signatures to call the referendum. And for this second question, only 2% is missing. Is it by any chance that this margin that is missing for the validity of the referendum itself, or for its signing, is so knap to that 0.88 or 2%? I personally find that a little suspicious, and it seems to me that the number of invalid signatures is exactly what it should be to bring down the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128670	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128671	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said and quoted that keeping the checklists in paper form would create an unnecessary danger that the personal data contained in them would not end up in the wrong hands. It's a quote. Here, respected colleagues and fellow MPs, we here in the Croatian Parliament in one of the warehouses in the basement have over 1.2 million signatures of citizens for two referendum questions. Over a million signatures we keep here in the Croatian Parliament building. Can't we just keep these checklists that are far, far less? Well, the minister himself in the government report says that they had a space that was recorded, carefully, so that no one unauthorized could do anything. So why'd you burn them?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128672	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128673	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I have two questions. The first question is how is it possible for Croatia to have less than 3 million 300 thousand full-aged citizens in Croatia, and at the same time it takes 3 million 750 thousand signatures to carry out the referendum. So there's obviously a certain disproportionateity there. On the other hand, there is also a disproportionateity between the elections held in the Republic of Croatia. In the previous parliamentary elections, the number of invalid ballots was 1.4. It means that it is possible to be about 1% in the parliamentary elections of invalid ballots and more than 10% in the collection of referendums. So these are the same people. So we can understand that one part of them doesn't want to or can't meet the procedural requirements, but this number is really a little bit exaggerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128674	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. Minister Kuščević's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128675	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is true that in all initiatives throughout the history of the independent Republic of Croatia, the percentages of the invalids were the following. 2010. 11.4%, 2013, Constitutional definition of marriage, 10.38%, 2014 adoption of the Law on the implementation of accompanying and non-basic activities in the public sector 7.35%. So this moves in the context of all the usual practices. Why are there so many inconsistencies? Because they obviously did what the representatives of these initiatives did. And what were they doing? Just for this example. For the truth about Istanbul initiative, they listed 377 thousand 635 signatures on the press and handed over 7 days after that 390 thousand 916. 13 grand in seven days has increased the number and the collection has already been banned. So, that's why obviously all these signatures... collected and didn't have everything they needed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128676	I thank you for your response to the respected Minister Kuštević. Next replica, respected counterpart Goran Aleksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128677	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister Kuštevic, I said, I did not support this initiative at the very beginning, but the citizens were given the right to go to the referendum and this referendum was to be held. And it said that questions were asked to the Constitutional Court, but I did not talk about these issues, I was talking about issues in terms of whether they were allowed. Questions, are these questions allowed to the Constitutional Court? So I was talking about these questions. I argue that the first question would fall in the Constitutional Court, so the issue of national minorities is unlikely to pass in the Constitutional Court, the issue of the Istanbul Convention would probably pass in the Constitutional Court. Citizens were given the right to hold a referendum and this referendum was to be held, you contaminated the referendum with your engineering and I therefore will not support your report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128678	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Angelko Strick.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128679	Thank you. The ministers of this initiative are really interesting, not because of the content, but by who supports them. Namely, the initiatives also support a political option called HRAST and its influence in Varazdin is next. Of the 16 local committees, none of the 25 councilmen in the city council have any councilmen. Of the 41 council members in the county assembly, they have no councilors and have run in all elections. So I think that's what the people have already decided. When we talk about the Croatian Parliament, it is now 151 MPs and the electoral threshold is 13,000 votes. If their initiative were to be accepted, e.g. 100 MPs mean that the electoral threshold rises to 20,000 voters. And now you imagine someone who can't win the election for a local board to advocate that the election threshold for joining the Assembly from 13 rise to 20 grand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128680	I thank my esteemed colleague, Uncle. Next replica, respected colleague Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128681	And where's the minister? Thank you very much. I don't know who I'm asking the question to, but I can see the minister explained in detail how much effort has been made to stop the construction and fabrication of these lists so that such a large number of signatures are rejected as invalid or invalid. The fact that we couldn't see which list it was because the famous app, so there was really no reason not to print it and make it possible to see and see what it was, so much about transparency, so we can say that, since the referendum and referendum issues really are laxmus paper of the democratic freedoms of a people, that we showed very badly here, and I'm not sure that. I am sure Minister Kustević has wrong, that, that the defenders who fought for this country are disappointed by this procedure And so are many young people coming out of the country. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128682	I thank my esteemed colleague Dobrovic. The next replica of the esteemed colleague of Sunny Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to, no minister, but there's a secretary of state here, so I'm sure he'll tell him, suggest a tourist tour of the APIS and the DIP so that colleagues who don't know what's going on and what these institutions are doing will get to know each other firsthand. I would just like to remind myself that the criteria set out by operators to carry out and verify the number and credibility of all the signatures collected, that the signatories are in the register of voters on 27 May 2018, precisely and clearly stated the name and name of the signatories, filled in all the data in each row, name, last name, OIB, the data in each row must not be corrected, crossed and supplemented. In the case of multiple signatures by one person, only one signature will be accepted and the signatures must be on the imported lists of the signed list with clearly separated rows marked by regular numbers. So much for someone checking the government signature, which is absolutely wrong. He's been lying all this time. [[/Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128684	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak. And the last replica, the esteemed colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128685	Well, dear fellow Strick, wherever you are, it's legitimate, in fact you're also a credible I would say, you were really in the Istanbul Convention, you, as far as I know, had a homosexual candidate for the mayor of Varazdin, which is legitimate, which is fine, and it's okay for you to defend this. I'm no wonder to you fellow Striker, wherever you are. But I'm surprised, I'm not surprised either, my colleague Boric, and I'm not surprised at him either, and he was for the Istanbul Convention, that's right, but I'm surprised at our Minister Kustević, who comes from a conservative neighborhood, which is very close to the church, who listens to any of the church, whatever the bishops are saying, and yet, without any remorse, he comes to HS and defends the Istanbul Convention again and again after months. months he still has the courage to come here, as you do my dear HDZ colleagues and defend what is indefensible [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] Yes, colleague Boric, defend what is indefensible. [[Employer: A colleague...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128686	...kole Zekanovic, you have reached out to the replica of Minister Kuščević, and you have spoken to your colleague, Stricak. So, I'm asking you nicely not to abuse the replicaty institute in the future, if you've already replicated, then replicate the one who spoke before you and who you reported for the replica. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128687	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Zekanovic's statement that Minister Kuščević is coming from a conservative area could be subjected to a violation of the article. 238 pages 6 and 7. The Rules of Procedure, therefore, I would ask my colleague Zekanovic not to place the island of Brac in conservative areas, there are people of conservative beliefs, liberal beliefs, and statistically, conservative options there get a little less votes, but in the rest of the Republic of Croatia, so please correct yourself in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128688	Dear colleague Bauk, you know very well that this has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure and please do not abuse this institute. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure of our colleague, Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128689	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Art. 238, but in part you have already warned your colleague Zekanovic, I would just say, pain where it hurts most, however, cannot be replicated by colleagues who have had a replica of the minister's exposure, so I ask nicely to direct their passions to those who are being addressed, and not in this way in breach of the Rules of Procedure knowingly and intentionally, you leveled your influence at zero in the Varazdinska and Međimurje County.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128690	My colleague Glavak, same answer as my colleagues, Bauku. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128691	In 238, respected colleague Glavak, you were able to react when your colleague Strick spoke of me, and you yourself know that I am related to the island of Brač and I know that in particular Nerežišće, as part of your municipality, are an extremely conservative environment, so I am rightly, with the right to say so, but it is not so obvious that when Kuščević went rogue, in fact with Kuštević the matter is changing significantly, becoming a liberal environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128692	I thank you, colleague Zekanovic, also the same answer, I think I've been tolerated enough, in the future we'll be different. We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128693	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. I don't think you should be tolerated or intolerant, but that you have to simply act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I don't think it's right for any man in HS to be called after his sexual orientation, whatever she is and that's where you had to react. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128694	I thank you, dear counterpart Bunjac, for not calling on an article that was injured by the Rules of Procedure, and a colleague of Hrvoje Zekanovic spoke about sexual orientation, in no way demeaning or insulting anyone. We have a colleague named Pejo Grbin reporting for a break, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Art. The 240th century 4th century. The Rules of Procedure stipulates that a reminder by taking away the words will also be given when the representative in his speech offends the Croatian people, religious, national and other communities, sexual, gender and other groups, and foreign states and international organisations and their representatives. Dear counterpart Zekanovic, although I don't know how much he would have earned that adjective was respected in his debate, decided to call one person because of her sexual orientation. And it's right on the agenda point, in which again, one referendum is being discussed, requiring the reduction of the rights of certain minority groups in the Republic of Croatia. Dear colleagues and colleagues calling someone because of sexual orientation, calling a political option, because she ran for someone who is gay, is unacceptable, anywhere, especially in the Croatian Assembly. For this reason, I ask you all to turn our backs on Mr. Zekanovic together and show this attitude, as we think of this speech as how our colleague Zekanovic used in the Croatian Parliament today. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if we want Croatia to be a modern and democratic state, and I believe that everyone or at least almost everyone who sits here wants to do this, with this speech, in this place, should simply say goodbye. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128696	A colleague named Peja Grbin, so you've called for a break. So you never said your reasons or explained them with one word. You called in an article. 240th paragraph 4 seems to me. So, you could have called in a breach of the Rules of Procedure and then told me what it was about. Since you have pleaded guilty and have misused your call for a break, I give you a warning. We have a breach of our rules of procedure, dear colleague Zekanovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128697	So the 238th article is clear on what it's all about. I must first comment that this is fantastic as SDP defends HDZ, and dear colleague, Grbin, therefore, I have said what is legitimate, legitimately, that HDZ is running for candidates who are any gender orientation, sexual, can be homosexual, may be lesbian, it is legitimate that you have in your club 15 Serbs or Roma, it is all legitimate. I didn't say it was bad. I said it was legitimate. So I haven't offended anyone, and it's fantastic to me that you're defending HDZ, and I'd like you all to turn your back on me together, that would be just as cool.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128698	I thank my colleague Zekanovic, I don't think he's hurt his rules of procedure, not in any way, based on Article 239 because of the abuse of the rules of procedure, I give you a warning. Are you reporting for a breach of the Rules of Procedure or for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128699	For the violation of the Rules of Procedure, of course Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, you have injured an officer. 248. [[Invader Brkić: Here you go.]] Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Article 248. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, which regulates the Institute of Breaks, are in no way prescribed that the representative seeking a break should call for a certain item. In fact, by the act of asking for a break, I made it very clear what my intensities are, I asked for a break, you determine the final breaks, as chairman and no one else. You can determine it for 10 to 30 minutes, and that's your will. My reasons for asking for a break were very clear, among other things, so that we could turn our backs on Mr. Zekanovic and at least that's what I thought, very clearly and explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128700	Dear colleague Peđa Grbin, therefore, the item of the agenda, is not a presentation of his colleague Zekanovic, you are in your own statement, when you raised your hand for a break, not in a single word did you explain your request, nor did you say what it was about. So, please, I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been injured and don't abuse the future institution of the Rules of Procedure, since you didn't ask for a break, I am not giving a break and I am opening a debate on behalf of the Representatives' Club Independent for Croatia, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128701	Vice-President Reverend Secretary of State of Rome, High House. Let us return to the political metrics, in the name of the Independent Club for Croatia, this parliamentary debate, we see as an organic creation, an earlier debate on protureferendum inspired Plenkovic Kuščević's proposal for a law on the financing of political activities, election promotions and referendums. On this occasion, we have established and proved precisely the paraphrasm, that the government, Master Plenkovic and the family will enter the history of Croatian politics and parliamentaryism as the first to reach out from political motive for stealing someone else, the Bauk Grbin's intellectual property and the parliamentary procedure, submitted their legislative proposal regarding the referendum. In the case of treatment of the latest referendum initiatives, the government, master Plenkovic, Minister Kuščević, and his so-called so-called "Kurščević". The commission, in this case, better said, commissions, for checking the number and credibility of the signatures, is not about taking over Milanovic and SDP's forms, the referendum political conduct. On the contrary, a little uncomfortable and on my part blasphemously I note that Milanović, Bauk, Grbin's theory and practice of dealing with referendum initiatives compared to Plenkovic's unscrupulous protureferendum doctrine and abuse of power only makes protourendum vigation, something like fly flight around cow tails. National Representative Bauk, when we thought that of you and Mr Milanovic, there could be no worse guardians of invariability, not systems, but systems, we faced the government of Master Plenkovic and his minister Kusčević. National Representative Bauk, compared to Kuštević's manipulation, your protourendum abuse of power seems to be a camel and a generous and generous political act. Why generous and generous? Because you knew perfectly well that among the signatories of the SDP voter's referendum initiatives at the time, there were no clues to your Kukurik associates from the HNS. Unlike Master Plenkovic and Kustević, who are arrogantly crossing over them, the well-known fact that among hundreds of thousands of affected referendum signatures there are significant ducks and weigh the number of signatures of those whose votes and are placed in the current position of unlimited and Pharaohic power. All this, MP Bauk, makes you qualified to have my recommendation that tomorrow after the political sinking you take one of the synocuras into the NGO gong, as we can see the destruction of new and perspective SDP personnel. In light of the fundamental question said, if the government of Master Plenkovic did not reach for Milanovic-Bauk's protureferendum modus operandium, whose theory and practice and political legacy was inspired. In response to this question, we come to the key knowledge of the spiritual political, human and mental foundations and the outcomes of today's HDZ and its president and the president of the Croatian government, Master Plenkovic. Due to intellectual laziness and inability to find his own manipulative model, Master Plenkovic reached out for the referendum heritage of his now abandoned and bereaved political stepmom of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, taking a step further in accordance with the surrender that children, political children can outdo their parents. Namely, when he decided to prevent a referendum on election law and amendments to the constitution, Master Plenkovic, on the news of the number of signatures collected, was able to choose between the two models from the practice of the government's practices so far. The first of whose birthplace is Milanovic's government in the performance of his Minister Bauk, which consists of the next. The total number of signatures collected and submitted would be excluded in cooperation with the State Statistics Office by a random sample of 5%, so not all signatures, and in order to assess, of course, without any external and independent supervision and verification, the number of correct and incorrect in the total number of signatures. Faced with the fact that the choice of the Bauk model with high probability found that the government was the only politically dangerous referendum initiative the People decided to collect a sufficient number of signatures for the referendum's openings, Master Plenkovic reached for another known practice by modeling his political stepmom, Jadranka Kosor. Let us remind the forgetful years in 2010 of the battle union centre with the logistic support of the opposition and then also the class-aware Milanović SDP fighter for workers' rights Radiir Cacic, and socially sensitive union activist Severina, launch a referendum initiative against the government's proposal of the Labour Act. The initiative succeeded, nearly 800,000 signatures were collected, Milanovic shrubs on the government's obligation to refer to the national will check, and as a proven man of dialogue and many times thought-out, mild and ever-wise words accuses the government of lack of desire for so-called. dialogue with citizens. The terrified Jadranka Kosor faced with 800,000 signatures by her then Hunti Kustević no longer remembers his name requires a check not by Bauk's later model of the randomly selected sample but by today's model of his political creed of Master Plenkovic each signature, of course without any external and independent supervision, for which the APIS is engaged. Not the late Dragutin Dimitrijevic but the Agency for Information Systems Support, etc. Until yesterday, the condom-owned leno of Zagreb City Milan Bandic and the Croatian government. The same APIS against which, due to alleged fraud in the February 2016 election results, the then president of the HDZ could personally testify in February 2016, at least 70% of HDZ representatives in this assembly and more than half of the ministers in the current Plenkovic government. The DIP also filed criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator, of course, with an unknown epilogue. Ms. Kosor thus made a million kunas worth trying to search for hair in the egg by cancelling more than half of the signatures, but this proved impossible with Milanovic's remarks that it was a graphological fission and I quote irregularities. The government of Ms. Kosor, the government of the government of Prime Minister Plenkovic, faced with a sufficient number of valid signatures, has withdrawn the law from the procedure as soon as the referendum's call became groundless. However, Mr Milanovic, the tribunal of direct democracy at the time, demanded that the referendum be called regardless of the fact that the law was withdrawn from the procedure because I quote, he does not trust the government by accusing him of fearing a referendum, quoting, the citizens' court. - Mrs. Crescent. Kosor, unlike her political stepson who refuses to do so today, still reached out to the procedural fig leaves and regardless of the law's withdrawal, addressed through the HS Constitutional Court which reached a final finding on the unnecessaryness of the referendum. On the basis of everything, what forgetful should be reminded of the key political and legal issue, why the implementation of the civil referendum is not dependent on the legal provisions, but on the goodwill and arbitration, and the graphological diocese of Jadranka Kosor, Zoran Milanović, Arsena Bauka, mag. Plenkovic and Lovre Kuščević? Because the law is not clear and unequivocally prescribed that the institution checks the validity of the signature, as well as the right of the driver of the initiative or independent observers to monitor the count. This created a void that, instead of an independent body, for example the DIP, fills the government, on this case, Plenkovicević Kushčević's abuse of power. What do we now have to do with the latest referendum initiatives? Report by Kuštevićev so-called The committee, which stands in favour of calling a referendum on Plenkovic's government, decided the most politically dangerous initiative by the people, according to Milanovic, reportedly lacks only 3290 signatures after Kuščević's graphological dioptry decimation, so less than 1%. At the same time, Kuščević's commission, through the APIS counters, has established as many as 40 875 allegedly invalid signatures. We also come to the APIS checklists, according to which more than 30,000 signatures without any supervision and independent additional checks were found to be invalid, including because of the so-called “. ” the inaccessibility of the invalid OIB, regardless of the authenticity of the signature, and the entry of data which is not prescribed, the number of citizens of origin, although they may be used to obtain the OIB, and to establish the credibility of the signature. Ladies and gentlemen, can the conduct of a referendum of national will depend on the graphics of 14 officials from different ministries? I admit, as a student of auxiliary historical sciences, I did not brilliant in Germany's Gothic paleography, but in itself it did not mean that the texts were inaccessible, but that what I felt was inaccessible, for example, fellow Bunjc or all the other students, was perfectly legible. Why the representatives of the referendum initiatives are prevented from seeing the control lists with allegedly incorrect signatures with a subtle and absurd explanation of the protection of personal data from the same data, not only collected but also reviewed. Tandem Plenkovic Kuščević went one step further in political impudence by an unprecedented procedure. Therefore, the control sheets, regardless of the working material, were destroyed even before the HS decision on whether and under what conditions a referendum would be called, and whether, as in any case so far, the Constitutional Court would give final ruling. Why were you gentlemen impatient and destroyed the checklists? How did you know that HS might not work out a conscience, and would not require further verification of allegedly invalid signatures. You could have played this farce until the end, not destroyed the checklists until the HS decision and wrapped the entire travesty in Brussels's procedural cellophane, which would have approved you as always by the Constitutional Court. I'm surprised by you, Mr. Plenkovic, you could have brought the game to an end elegantly, the legal void allows you to do whatever you want, and the Constitutional Court as the second echelon of defense system as well as many times so far or a pill washes your hands or decides how it is expected to do so. With this stability, the Brussels wolf would remain uncircumcised, and the Croatian sheep would remain fed up, at least until the next election in number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128702	I thank my esteemed colleague, Hasanbegovic. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Lovro Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128703	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, so first of all, I would like to thank Mr. Hasanbegovic for the debate and correct what you said that the results of the count depend on graphological art, I quote. So, I note, I repeat, that there was no graphological art of any signature, but only to see if the person entered the correct name, last name, the OIB and whether it was signed in any way, regardless of the quality of the signature, let alone that the graphologically artificial. You asked a question whose theory and practice were guided? Well, I would say, firstly, what we reached out to, is the oath in HS which we also gave here, Mr Plenkovic and all of us ministers, of course, personally as ministers and three times, noting, and this oath among other things said that we would respect the Croatian Constitution and Croatian laws, so this is the first thing that we have conducted in this whole process, and ultimately this is confirmed by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Then, we were led by recommendations from the Venice Commission that said, here I am going to be free, so I'm going to read to you what the Venice Commission said, it's important to check, so, point. Three, the wheel. 4th St. F., it is important to verify the signatures, success or failure of the initiative or the request for a referendum should not be determined on the basis of a sample which may contain an unusually large number of invalid signatures or none, while the other signature lists may be those, etc., etc. So clearly says the Venice Commission must check all signatures, that's another thing. The third thing that we were leading, we were guided by the will and protection of those around 3 million and 300,000 voters who did not support these referendum initiatives, 3 million and 300,000 voters who did not support those, these referendum initiatives and who also have the right to protect their position and protect their opinions as well as those who supported these referendum initiatives. And in the end, we reached out to common sense, reason, and the indisputable facts that say, and you had a chance to see them in these reports. So these facts are, for just one initiative I'm reading, that we have in one initiative 8 thousand double signatures, 2594 of the OIB that don't exist at all, so the non-existent OIBs that were imaginations. 428 people signed underage, the youngest only 2 months. 150 people who have signed are not even Croatian citizens, so they do not have the right to sign. 240 dead people are signed, look at the wonders. 33,000 554 signatures are invalid for the following reasons, the personal name on the signed list does not match the personal name in the list of voters. These data are inaccessible, so no name, last name or OIB can be established. Invalid OIB, empty line, so nothing is entered, it's just signed. The data has been crossed, not all data has been entered, hence missing either name, or last name, or OIB or missing signature, the data has been corrected, to the extent that they are illegible, etc., etc. So we are guided by all the elements for which everyone here in the Croatian Parliament has sworn and I think that I expect the Croatian Parliament on Friday, and perhaps even unanimously now that it hears all these arguments accepts this report that this was a great test of democracy that the Croatian Government passed and here I expect it in the same way, that this test of democracy will also pass the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128704	I thank the Honorable Minister. We have several replicas, dear colleague Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Here you go. Turn yourself in, please, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128705	You didn't listen well to the Honorable Minister. Of course I know it wasn't carried out, or it's possible to graphologically perform signatures, so I reached out for a metaphor about graphological dioptrian abilities. You're talking about impurity, who established this impurity? From your commission's report, only one example can be made clear after you have received this APIS product that 14 chinks have further reduced, so it further increased on the basis of which abilities, hence subjective assessments of these 14 people, whether it is clear or not. You didn't enforce the law because the law about it and you know it well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128706	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zlatko Hasanbegovic. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128707	Given that you were inspired by counterpart Hasanbegovic to report in the proposal, I thank you for giving me the opportunity to respond without abuse of the Rules of Procedure to what he said, replicating you because he mentioned several times certain remarks on the number of signatures identified in the 2013-2015 referendum initiatives. You even used the word abuse in that context. Therefore, none of the procedures for establishing the number of signatures collected by the reference initiatives from 2013 to 2015 have been followed by any objections from any initiative. So as far as this is concerned, there are no abuses that would then be continued by this government. It is a business that has been done correctly and not a single remark has been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128708	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Next replica, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128709	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Minister, when you have already referred to the code of good practice of the Venice Commission, but you are very selectively referring to that code. If something can be read from the Code when it comes to referendums, then it is the following that the referendum procedure from the pre-referendum phase until the end of the referendum must be carried out by an independent and impartial body separate from the Government. Both the Code and the last additions to the guidelines adopted by the Council, the Paraliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, in January this year, I am talking about it and you have done everything the opposite. Your commission of the ministry, your government, not an independent and impartial body.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128710	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Dolnjak. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128711	Here, thank you very much. I would only briefly say that the minister here said that 3 million and 300 thousand Croats, voters did not support Croatian citizens, did not support a referendum on what is absolute untrue because you did not allow 3 million and 300 Croatian voters to fulfil the legal obligation and the will of the majority to see whether they supported the referendum or not. You've told the truth, you've deceived the public once more. Voters, citizens of the Republic of Croatia cannot go out and say what they think about this issue or for or against, you stole it from the people. You don't give us parliamentary agents, let's check it out, see where the lists are. Control lists, you've hidden the lists, all day long, me and my colleagues from the Bridge yesterday we asked all the authorities in the Parliament to show us where the checklists are, for the invalids, they didn't, they stole you are a referendum of the Minister. [[Upadica Brkić: Thank you, thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128712	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128713	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said you were leading among other things by protecting 3 million 300 thousand Croatian citizens who did not sign this initiative, as well as by keeping your senses healthy. You see, Mr. Minister, you need to be guided, only by facts, whether enough signatures are collected or not, I personally believe it isn't and I believe it isn't, and I'm going to talk about it in my personal debate. Because these two initiatives were also involved in the collection of signatures, in manipulation, in subsequent intelligence, so they were found, etc. However, because of the whole process of determining the number of signatures collected, due to the level of transparency, that is, the non-transparentity that you performed in public, we now have a situation, that we have been terrorized for a month by a loud and aggressive minority and that is the sole culprit of you ministers. I suggest you let the Secretary of State defend the government's views by the end of the evening, so you don't say anything anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128714	Thank you, dear fellow Djujic, for your response, dear Minister Kuščević, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128715	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Representative, when you are Minister, then you will decide who will defend a few points from your portfolio, until then be patient and do not interfere in the work of the ministry in such a way. And as for the fact that I've defended 3 million and 300,000 of those who aren't signed, yes, it's just contained in the Constitutional Court's decision, I'm sorry that I can't find it now, it's a big decision, but you can read where they say, that the aprioriers take for granted, without checking, what the initiatives have done, their figures, would be a harsh violation of and the rights and interests of those fellow citizens, who have not supported it. So that's where we really got in line, and I'm glad that the lawyers in my ministry and the Constitutional Court have similar, positive views on this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128716	I'd like to thank the respected minister, my esteemed colleague Strenja, and I'd like to ask you nicely if we don't disturb the speakers. Let's go to the next line, dear colleague Marko Vučetic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128717	... It is obvious that there has been a trial under the referendum, not necessarily, I don't think, concerning this referendum, but that the authorities are not interested in holding referendums. [[Specially enabled.]] As far as this referendum is concerned, it is clear that the debate is going in a completely wrong direction. I would have been against the government's report if my colleagues had convinced me that the information had disappeared, not that the media had disappeared. It is quite irrelevant, on which the media will be present. The important thing is that the information wasn't destroyed. Because I could also lead you to the ultimate absurd, ask you a question, what did you do with the pens, with which those data were recorded. So, absurdly, you need to distinguish between information and knowledge. If there is confidential information, which the signatures are not valid, then the information is valid and implemented correctly.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128718	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, next replica, dear colleague Slaven Dobrović, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128719	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, indeed with great zeal and hard work, you defend what is actually insurmountable and I think that few people believe in the Croatian public, you could certainly be more transparent, because what is not available in the media, so you made the data inaccessible, therefore, untrustworthy, and that can always be checked, but the fact is that it can, not help, that we in the Croatian Parliament, have not been able to look at it. So, I don't think the people trust you and it's unfortunate that you check the signatures and measure as time is measured in athletics at a 100-metre race.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128720	Thank you. The reply of the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128721	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So everyone has the right to insight, and so do you as a natural person, and it was months ago, you did not respond and you did not exercise your insight, and I will repeat the report and the interpretation of the Independent Croatian Personal Data Protection Agency, which says that there is no legal obligation or justification to further provide insight into that voter data, particularly taking into account the interests and fundamental rights to the protection of individuals' personal data, whose data is a specific case. We must understand that we must protect Croatian laws, we must protect personal data, because there is a category protected by Croatian laws. Here, there, I'm sorry you haven't made an insight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128722	Thank you for your response. Next replica, dear colleague Marko Sladolev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128723	So, you've been unbiased all along, dear minister, that you've been impartial in the whole process. So, you remember, during the very signing of the petition, that also Prime Minister Plenkovic, was cutting his political stance against the referendum initiative, talking about marginals, that you acted as a politician against this initiative, which further contaminated the whole process. You remember when there was a referendum on marriage, when Milanovic's authority was also against, therefore, the anti-all, and your pattern of conduct was exactly the same as Milanovic in this case. So you were in the process, you were against the referendum, and you can't deny it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128724	I thank my esteemed colleague. We move on to the next debate, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128725	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister and the Honorable Secretary of State. Well, I'm sorry that my previous speaker, Mr. Representative Hasanbegovic, left. Namely, in my Vehementary performance, from which I read regrets the loss of the Culture Minister's chair and the ability to manage culture in Croatia, which he made, according to Master Plenkovic and then performs unworthy here. In fact, here in this assembly, it advocates the right to carry out a referendum and denies the right to HS that unless conditions have been met, there should still be referendums. While just across the other side of the square, in another town council of Zagreb to be able to decide on a referendum when it comes to renaming the streets and squares in the city of Zagreb, I would prefer to be told how much it is in harmony with each other, how much does one stance here encollect, and another attitude just 100 meters further in the second town hall. But let me go back to what I wanted to say on behalf of the HDZ representative, which is that according to the article. Article 87(3)(b) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 is replaced by the following: The Constitution, the HS, is obliged to call a referendum on the amendment of the Constitution, the law or other acts of the HS section when one-tenth of voters in the Republic of Croatia so request. So our entire debate and everything that preceded this debate is based on this article. The constitution in which HS must determine as a preliminary question whether the referendum initiatives in Croatia have raised 10% of the total voter list in the Republic of Croatia. In that sense, HS received two referendum initiatives, signatures on 3 referendum issues, not to repeat them now, two questions referred to the People's referendum initiative to decide on an amendment. 72 and the addition of a new article. 72.a. on the election of representatives in HS, and another initiative, the Truth of Istanbul, also had a question concerning the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, as well as in the second part on the power of the parliament, that it could ratify the same majority of which it had ratified, that it could, that it could, that it could, or could annul its validation in HS. Before they set out to sign and collect signatures that lasted 15 days from May 13th to May 27th, the minister of administration, here the present Lovro Kuščević has publicly announced, as previously ordered by the Constitutional Court, that, in order to turn these referendum initiatives into a referendum, they are obliged to collect 374 thousand and 400 signatures of Croatian voters, which is 10% of the total voter list, and if they did so and if they did so, those signatures valid in HS, then HS should issue a referendum, or if the assessment that referendum issues are not in line with the Croatian Constitution, ask the Constitutional Court. But when an HS contributes 10% of voters to each referendum issue, it is either required to call a referendum, or if the two constitutionalities are asked about it by the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, and is unable to say for themselves, we will not call a referendum now because we hold that the constitutional issue is not in line with the Constitution. And here is the most important, in my opinion, the basis for a general debate here on this issue in HS. When initiatives, June 13th last year and June 20th last year, brought to HS voters' lists, the only thing HS could do to fulfil its obligation under Article. Article 87(3) of the Constitution is to verify that these initiatives have collected sufficient signatures and for that only it was possible to order the executive body, i.e. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has administrative capacity and administrative infrastructure, shall count this, to count and report and return information to HS whether these initiatives have collected a sufficient number of voters' lists, as foreseen by the HS. The government has hired a resolute ministry. It hired APIS, formed a commission that we had just heard, consisting of members of officials, civil servants at the Ministry of Administration, the Ministry of Interior and the State Data Protection Agency and, after all and after all, determined that the initiatives did not collect the necessary number of voters' signatures, so that HS could call a referendum, or ask the Constitutional Court whether these issues were in line with the Constitution. In parallel while it was happening, it's very important to say, the referendum initiatives are... did the HS act in accordance with the law in July of this year and in accordance with the Constitution, when that vote-counting business, leave it to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, act contrary to the Constitution and the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian Constitutional Court has made it clear that the Parliament has done the right thing and that it is the Government that has its authority as an executive body in the Republic of Croatia and has the administrative capacity to prescribe, prescribe or verify the number of voters. And while it is very important, the government has left the possibility for all interested Croatian citizens, especially the representatives of the initiative to come to the ministry, to come to the APIS and to check whether, if any of the 40 thousand signatures were signed, whether it was taken off as invalid and that it was valid. Interestingly, none of the 130 thousand such lists that have been declared invalid to this day were found to be consistent with the word that Minister Kuštević or APIS or some third of them unlawfully removed from the list provided by the referendum initiatives. It's not clear to me, I don't understand that none of the 120,000 signatories who have been removed that are invalid until today, and it's been seven months, didn't tell the government there's been a stir, did I do it? I signed the exact name, exactly my last name, is my OIB, and I've been signed by the government and I've been taken down by the Ministry, i.e. the APIS. And they were all invited, that someone didn't come to check it out today doesn't give him the right to say something was wrong, and there's still a chance to come and check it out, is that it. It can come anyone in the APIS check your, colleague, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128726	Mr. Grumoja, I'm asking you nicely already, I'm asking you to have a warning, please don't force me to give you any more warning and take your word away.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128727	Not only that, not only can he come to check but he can if he has the power of someone who cannot come from Sinj to check, and he has the power to come to check on behalf of any MPs, including his colleague Bulj, and even a colleague of Grmoja can come by virtue to check that this gentleman who signed me in Blato on Korčula is indeed still among those who are valid or have been removed by the Government, APIS, commission, by someone. It can come whenever it wants and whenever it wants only let it be announced in conditions that have been true for everything before. Therefore, what was important, the government had absolute right so confirmed by the Constitutional Court to verify and deliver that information to the Assembly. The Parliament then has two options or a lack of confidence in its Government, a lack of confidence in the Government and a word we doubt in the Croatian Parliament that the Government did not do so as not to fall into our minds, but to conclude only what it concluded by not entering into the metrics, so the Croatian Parliament does not enter into the metrics, neither claims that the referenda questions are in accordance with the Constitution, nor that they are not, but rather the assumption that it is not decided at all, and for this reason we cannot make a decision to call the referendum. In doing so, my colleague Bulj, you do not need to go into my word you will have time and individuality, you can, in the name of the club however you want and finally have a God thank you very much for a very large number of ways to report for the word that the referendum initiatives concern that as a professor of constitutional law, Col. Podolnjak, as a professor of constitutional law, have not exhausted legal opportunities, representatives of citizens or referendum initiatives, because there are a lot of citizens who have not signed to whom you do not call. Therefore, they have the opportunity to request constitutional and legal protection and to check the supervision of the procedure, which will lead to a decision Friday that the conditions for the call for a referendum of the Croatian Parliament have not been met. That's what's important. And one more thing I didn't say I don't know if there was anything to say about it, which is that the government, or the APIS or the commission, removed a drop of invalid signatures that was simply checked, which is whether the correct name and last name, whether it was the right OIB, whether at that time the Croatian citizen who signed it was alive, and I see that 250 of them were, as a rule, not alive at the time of the signing, so I don't know how it could have happened and whether the baby was this couple of months who wasn't a full-aged citizen, so he signed anyway. So, the government only entered these very simple checks, in the graphologically, the graphological determination of the signatures did not enter because there were cases that there were thousands of the same signatures. How it can happen that 4,000 citizens find themselves twice on the same referendum issue as signatories, so there are many such shortcomings and therefore it should have been checked without denying good intentions, no one. What the government should have done was to check that these assumptions were fulfilled at the order of the Croatian Parliament. So, this is important and it should be mentioned that the government did not enter the authenticity of the signature, whether someone signed in someone's name or not, the subject of the check was just what was very simple to check both yesterday and today and tomorrow, and it is not too late for anyone, while there is a law on keeping data subsequently to check whether someone was in, whether someone was removed from the list and not should have been removed, so there are here in the Croatian Parliament and lists and lists of all initiatives and lists of those who have been removed as invalid, whoever it is interested to report to the ministry to be checked there and to remove that floscule about some control lists that would now make it impossible to verify whether the government did right or not act correctly, it is important for the people. Let's not deceive the public because of the petty political, populist points, it's not exactly who wants to check whether his signature is valid or not can come whenever he wants. If he can be far from authorized by his colleague, Mr. Grumo, to check all thousands on his behalf, four thousand people can than the minister once more explain it to you, possibly and you had time to come and you didn't come. So much for that. And in the end, I will conclude with that, I also said to my esteemed colleague Podolnjak, the Croatian Parliament is the highest institution in the Republic, the legislative institution, the representative body of Croatian citizens and it cannot be reduced to the mere delivery of referendum initiatives to the Constitutional Court of the Republic. It's not the constitutional court's reception office, we're not the manual logs where the initiatives will come in, we'll repack it up and take it here to the Constitutional Court. This body is a respected colleague and a respected professor. It is up-to-date to decide that the assumptions for the implementation of the referendum have not been met because 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia have not been collected and the referendum has been called up when this assumption is met and when we think about it, give the question in accordance with the Constitution. If that were the case, the Government of Zoran Milanovic would not have opened a competition on the legal definition of marriage, without asking anything of the Constitutional Court and had no right to ask and did not ask him because she had assessed that the signatures were collected and that it was in accordance with the Constitution. And it's very strange for me that you then identified yourself with Zagreb to come and make a big argument to this government. [[Invader Brkić: Thank you.]] I mean... [[Upadica Brkić: A colleague of Bačić, a colleague of Bačić, thank you very much.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128728	We move on to the next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Honored Fellow Marko Vučetic, please welcome colleague Vučetic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128729	Here's a respected colleague and colleagues, and you listening and you practicing socialization processes, I'm talking to you exclusively from this one simple level that we're supposed to be discussing today, without putting in personal acute dimensions, which is, we should just check today that the formal conditions for calling a referendum have been met, and that's the only thing that's going on today. Whether the formal terms of the referendum have been met, about anything else. These formal conditions are not met. However, it is something else in this debate and what to talk about, and this is these referendum initiatives that have arisen for only one reason, and that is the reason why one question can be considered, and that is whose HDZ is. At the moment of the change in the government's composition, any initiatives have also emerged, these are initiatives that have abused policy, which have compromised policy in these referendum issues and also initiatives that have compromised religion. Both sit and on the other hand they launched an adventurous activity that should have introduced the spirit of freedom into Croatian society. These referendum initiatives are by their own content, by quality, not by quantity how many of you have collected your signatures, how many of them you have signed, how many of you have revived the dead for one day, how many children you have left behind for a time of 2 months. And they took them down to 18 years of age and put them on the list. We are not discussing this quantity, but we are discussing it exclusively, even now, the quality of these, the content of these referendum initiatives. I want to know what reality this referendum initiative would have created if it had succeeded, and I'm going to tell you what this reality would have been and what reality we would have lived in. Today, at least on one issue, if the referendum initiative had succeeded, we would have been in Parliament, in a parliament where we would have double, double, dualist modeled representatives. Representatives who have the full right to vote from MPs who went inside as broken at the anthropological level. Not that we have made it impossible for these MPs who could not vote on the government, who could not vote on the budget, that we have made it impossible for them to vote on it, but we have made it impossible for their voters who are citizens of the Republic, who belong to this political civil society Corps, to send them a message that if they decide to keep their own national identity if they do not give up that national identity and vote for the general lists, that their vote is not valid as a voice that will say yes or no to the Croatian government, which will say yes or not to the Croatian budget. This quality, the quality I call it, which has led to this and the content is profoundly antihuman, this content is sadistic, the one who participated in putting together this question, who took part in the conduct of these activities, is nothing but a sadist. From a philosophical level, I understand that sadism. It stems from the inability for a man to create an autotranscedence, to overcome himself. That's what it's about... He spoke, not of man, but of tongue. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, do not speak, but speak that language that you have learned in your own environments, in your own families, in your own religiously colored perversions to be a religion, you are the victims of your own speech, and you are the first victims of this kind of referendum issue that was meant to lead to your self-sacrifice of the whole society, that in this Parliament we have two levels of MPs, MPs who are free because they belong to the majority people or advocates who are free because they have chosen to give up their national identity. This is what I want to talk to you about, not quality, about quality. I'm not interested in quantity, I don't care how many signatures are collected and what mystic circumstances are because these mystic circumstances stem from mysticism that we don't want referendums to be conducted. Although I am against this referendum because this referendum is not a referendum facing the future, according to the construction of society, this referendum is a referendum on the level that Croatian society wants to bring to the final synthesis of the past, and that is the most terrible. It is a breakthrough in nihilism, because Croatian society, Croatian society, Croatian citizens are being taken away from all vital elements in this shameful, final synthesis of the past, which should be called the present, for the future to develop. If we look at it, it's a political compromise. Those who took part in it, they made, played the essence of politics, compromised politics. Those on the other hand, when it comes to the Istanbul Convention, they reached out for something else, they compromised the essence of religion. In what way? Religion speaks of sovereignty, not of low mental sovereignty and low-mental modernity, which will sanctify citizens in 2 categories. Religion is talking about something else. Religion speaks of the sovereignty of deliverance from violence, the sovereignty of salvation. Tell me in this Istanbul convention, where we've been watching, that since the beginning of history, so in... women, women present from the beginning of history to today, until the ratification of the Istanbul Convention, were exposed to violence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's what we're talking about. We are talking about wanting to take on our shoulders this burden and this injustice of violence. Because if we do not take the burden and injustice of violence on our shoulders, we cannot live in a world of equality. Religion speaks of the sovereignty of equality, of the sovereignty of love, in this playful fantasy ofmagorical, mystical rises that the Istanbul Convention, ratification of the Istanbul Convention, will bring us after 6 months. or a year or 10 years those who have compromised the essence of religion will never face the truth, that the Istanbul Convention, ratification of the Istanbul Convention, brings us this first step in the global fight against violence. When I talk about the fact that this initiative has compromised the essence of religion, I'll reach out to only one example, tell me isn't religion working globally before globalisation? Isn't that part of reality or institutions, as far as Christianity or the Catholic Church is concerned, that has worked globally before the globalisation process. Doesn't religion work globally? If it does not work globally and if modernists in the religious realm, then please, if you are Christians, move only in the space that Christ used to move. Then leave these areas and return to the sovereignty of your own forbidden Christianity. Christianity is not, Christianity is not a religion of violence, Christianity speaks of identity. These modernities that will talk about preferential voices, I will ask them how much money they were at the monthly level before politics, with how much they now have. How much money did they go into politics with, how much money would they get out of politics? Let's turn that dimension around. If there was no inspiration, no hilism, no pessimism, and the need to choose in a philosophical way, I wouldn't be in this House for a minute, because it's at an extremely low level of knowledge, it's at a low level to create a social process and pictures of Croatian society and people, people who should live there. These initiatives contribute, these initiatives are nothing. Those who advocate these two questions are on the line... Someone's their superhuman, and someone's human, disgusting, which they can't belong to, or get close to that size or will for power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We staged the most negative, nihilistic, pessimistic concepts and staged them in the form of virtue, in the form of patriotism in the form of fighting for Croatian society. It is ultimately to end with this, this is a struggle for HDZ youth those who have been separated, who have been driven, who have been expelled or remote from HDZ are fighting for their new HDZ. Those who are now in HDZ are struggling to stay in their HDZ. On the other hand, this content, these initiatives is a struggle for the anti-human, anti-human concept of Croatian society and should be said. From the formal level are the fulfillment of all the assumptions that this referendum is not maintained from a level of knowledge, from a moral level, from a level of self-transcendence, this referendum should never have entered into an important human dimension, and that is the dimension of the word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128730	I would like to thank my esteemed colleague, Vučetić, for the next debate on behalf of the Independent Lists' Club of Representatives, dear colleague Robert Podolnjak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128731	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers and Secretary of State. In May of last year, two citizens' initiatives collected signatures to call a referendum, and now, more than half a year later, today's debate on the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee and the initiatives did not collect enough signatures and that no assumption of a referendum was met. And obviously if such a decision is made, the thesis that I have repeated many times will be confirmed, that clearly for the ruling elites, for the government, for most in this assembly, only a dead referendum is a good referendum. It is about the decision of the Parliament which has the presidential meaning, never so far, that the Parliament has never refused to call a referendum without having requested that the Constitutional Court established that no formal assumptions for the opening of the referendum were met in accordance with the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court. It is a matter of exceptional constitutional legal importance, especially since it is a constitutional right to refer to a referendum of more than 400,000 citizens who, following this decision proposed, would remain a dead letter on constitutional paper. If HS accepts the proposed conclusion of the Constitution Committee, we believe in the MOST Club that this will be one of the worst decisions in this conference HS. Let me explain the reasons for that attitude. Since the very beginning of this process, the government and this HS have not been neutral and impartial state bodies, nor have they tried at all to play impartiality and neutrality against the initiative. One was assumed because the government had proposed and HS ratified the Istanbul Convention, but another initiative concerned changes in the electoral system and status of representatives of national minorities and could not have been known in advance of the government's position or majority in the HS. But during the signing and shortly after the end, the Prime Minister made clear his position and logical position of the government. The referendum questions are missed and irresponsible. I do not know in which country the electoral system is defined by a referendum, and one and the other issues are intruding into topics that should not be subject to a referendum, there are political parties, government and HS, on the side that the electoral system was decided by citizens, a referendum on the United Kingdom, in neighbouring Slovenia and in neighbouring Italy, I believe that the prime minister knows this, but he did not want to say it in public. With such a view, the Government has been entrusted to establish the number and credibility of the signature objectively and transparently. Of course that couldn't have happened, all that happened was a completely non-transparent, unfair, dark process of checking the signature that leaves us no doubt that it was done with one sole goal, the proper signatures should not be enough at any cost. As the government and its ministry had just succeeded, the verification they entrusted to the APIS and the final check and the decision of the board of directors consisted mainly of its staff, more than 40,000 signatures were found to be invalid, and for an initiative to amend the electoral system, it meant that only a few thousand valid signatures were missing or less than 1%. Although it dominated the public that the Commission had found several hundred minors or deceaseds among the signatories, and it did not establish who it was and what it intended to include in the lists, and we can only guess about that. More than 30,000 signatures which have been found incorrect due to unclean name and last name data, incorrect OIB, corrected data, personal name difference between signature and voter registration, etc. It was precisely these broken signatures that the initiative representatives wanted to control. According to the government's report, the Commission was also provided with the basis of the checklists, each questionable signature accepted or did not accept them as correct. According to a report of several hundred such invalid signatures, the commission accepted on certain issues as correct but insufficient in any case. But the subsequent verification of these key control lists was made impossible because they were destroyed, because, well you heard, many times today, they were destroyed for the most ridiculous reason I've ever heard from the secretary of the administration, that these lists of personal data in paper form would pose an unnecessary danger to someone abuse them. So we in HS keep over 1.2 million citizens' signatures in this building, I guess under lock and key, and the minister sells us a joke that they couldn't keep the checklists on which you see the reasons why certain signatures were found incorrect. There are applications, whatever that means, that someone could individually check their signature, so if it did that to 400,000 people, it would probably take months, months and months, so maybe it was intentional. For the minister of these checklists were auxiliary technical material, but based on them, the commission said whether any signature was correct or not, that is why it was crucial material and therefore it should not have been destroyed, until this HS accepts the government's report because it is legitimately the right HS to verify the statements from the report or part of the MPs, and we have always asked at the Most Club for this material and we are not allowed to do so, so there is officially a record for possible subsequent procedures that we have been denied the insight as representatives of the citizens who elected us in HS. We should therefore believe the government report, which fought with hands and feet, that the referendum on the electoral system does not come, that there is no reduction in the number of MPs, that there are no preferential votes, that each vote of voters is worth the same, that it can be voted by letter and, of course, is not believed, and that the 400 000 citizens who gave their signature for the referendum, and the Constitutional Court as Pontius Pilate washed their hands from the referendum, declared unruly, said HS can decide for themselves and determine that there are not enough signatures, that the whole process was in accordance with the law, that it cannot be doubted in advance by the impartiality of the government etc. Instead of protecting the constitutional right to a referendum, the Constitutional Court has ceased to be the Constitutional Court. As a professor of constitutional law, it saddens me deeply. However, as the same Constitutional Court said in 2014 in one of its resolutions on the assessment of the constitutionality of the state referendum that was carried out earlier? He said next, Article 95. The constitutional law shall be governed by preventive constitutional supervision which, in the event of a need set by the Croatian Parliament or doubts about the constitutionality expressed by the Constitutional Court, is intended to examine its request and, in the event of the establishment of the non-constitutional issue, to remove the possibility of its maintenance. The next sentence is extremely important. Such a decision of the Constitutional Court also exempts the Croatian Constitutional Assembly from acting in accordance with the categorical provision of Article 87(3). The constitution that the parliament will call a referendum when 10% of voters demand it. Therefore, the Constitutional Court of the Croatian Parliament is not authorised to take a decision which would have decided that the State referendum would not be called or that it would refuse to make a decision on the calling of a national referendum without the Constitutional Court having previously made an appropriate decision on those issues pursuant to Article 95. Constitutional law. In 2019, the Constitutional Court forgot what it wrote and decided in 2014. But interestingly recently, a few days ago, we discovered an important interest, namely in 2014 in July of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the president was then a respected colleague of Furio Radin, I believe there are members of the Committee who were then at that meeting in July 2014. The Committee discussed the issue of the state referendum of the Civil Initiative for Defence of the Croatian Vukovar. The Committee then concluded that the members of the committee were unanimous at the time that such a referendum could not be discussed, had no doubts at all about the unconstitutional nature of the referendum issue, however, it was also noted that the address to the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court, in this particular case, was not motivated by the doubt about the unconstitutional nature of the proposed referendum issue, but took the view that the Croatian Parliament was not authorised to take a decision which decided that the state referendum would not be called or the decision to call the state referendum. In 2014, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities decided that the Croatian Parliament could not decide alone on the calling of a national referendum even when the Assembly has no doubts about the unconstitutional nature of the referendum issue, but that it must leave it to the Constitutional Court, however, on the basis of this 2014 solution, to make the final decision. I do not believe that none of the members of the board who were at that time 5 years ago remember what the board had concluded, but also this decision is in favour of the fact that the Committee on the Constitution did not act properly proposing its conclusion. And trust me that this conclusion of the board will sooner or later be found in one procedure at the end of the story at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and that they will not be able to remain silent forever. So the Croatian Parliament itself said in its conclusion five years ago that, despite the lack of doubts about the unconstitutional issue of the referendum, the Croatian Parliament cannot decide on its own not to call a state referendum, the final decision must be made by the Constitutional Court. And that is why we are again insisting that the decision of the Constitutional Committee be reconsidered. We cannot, of course, vote in the Club of Representatives of the MOST for a decision proposed, what we have proposed as point 1 so that the Assembly does not accept the proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the 2nd Assembly should appoint a new committee in which the representatives, members of the state election committee, NGOs and representatives of the initiative, the initiatives that have made the request for a national referendum, with the task of re-checking the signature. This is a matter of procedure, this is a matter of respecting the Constitution, this is a matter of respecting the Constitutional Court's constitutional law, this is respect for the earlier legal statutes of the Constitutional Court. But as I have just read even the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of this Croatian Assembly five years ago, there are probably similar conclusions, there are more about other requests for a national referendum, I have only read you one. Finally, I would like all the MPs in this Croatian Parliament to be aware that we are here discussing the constitutional law of 400,000 citizens who have signed a request for a national referendum. And my message to all citizens who have signed for the referendum, if the Croatian Parliament makes a decision as proposed by the Constitutional Committee, you who signed the request for a referendum, think about the next time you come before the ballot box, remember who has denied you the referendum, who has made it impossible for you a fairer electoral system with fewer MPs who will be responsible for the vote and who will be elected thanks to your votes. Think about it next time you come to vote in one of the polling stations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128732	I thank my fellow Downworlder. Prime Minister Lovro Kuščević.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128733	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Thank you, Mr. Representative, for the debate. But on several occasions you mentioned 400 thousand signatures, 400 thousand signatures. Here, I'll say 3rd time, 400,000 signatures. In a few times you haven't failed to point out that you're a professor of administrative, constitutional law, I don't know, I don't remember anymore. And that's why I'm surprised, so I'll do it again. Do you think 8,000 double signatures should have been respected? Do you think anyone has the right to vote twice? Is this in accordance with the Constitution or not in accordance with the Constitution? Do you think 2594 non-existent persons should have been admitted to some right? So, is the person who doesn't exist able to have any rights? Do you think 428 minors have the right to decide on such issues? Do you think 158 people who do not have Croatian citizenship can decide on internal issues of the Republic of Croatia? Do you think 240 dead people can decide on the other 4 and a half million living Croatian citizens? Mr. Podolnjak, as an expert on constitutional law, you should know that the dead cannot decide, that minors cannot decide on such matters, that people who do not have Croatian citizenship cannot decide on Croatian national issues. And these are the figures, from only one initiative. Now multiply what I read times 3. You said the government wasn't impartial. The position of me as Minister on a specific referendum issue or the position of Prime Minister, not a bit, nor a fraction of our entire procedure, nor in a second of my action, has affected the impartiality, objectivity of the conduct of the process of control of valid, or invalid signatures. Neither was one official, was a member of the commission, nor was one official a member of another committee that was there for insight, nor was one official a member of those people who were physically, 70 and some of the officers who were physically sitting and entering. controlling valid and invalid signatures. So, my personal political position, allow Mr. Constitutional Law, that I too have the right to my position, absolutely no part of it has affected the decision whether these signatures are valid or not. And I'd like to repeat what we've had a chance to hear here, here, several times these lies that are already, I don't know, Croatian citizens if they listen to this, so you Parliamentarians, I'm already boring you, if you're not bored with those who lie, so maybe I'm boring you, but here I'm clearly telling you. Nothing, absolutely nothing, no document, in this process has been destroyed. All signatures, originals, each ballot, each numbered is stored in HS. What HS will do with it, you will have a chance to decide. The checklist hasn't been destroyed. Therefore, all control lists are on the DIP app, which is located in the APIS. If necessary, in 15 minutes we'll make a print, enter, and we'll have these signed lists. So signed lists, checklists exist, and it clearly states which voice is invalid, which is why numbering and can go to Parliament's basement to compare whether it's true or not. Whether the OIB is correct or not, as the Commission has determined whether the name and last name is correct or not. Therefore, to the Croatian public, you all, absolutely nothing has been destroyed, the control lists exist, and the fact that they exist in digital form, okay, obviously I will have to go order it to print and bring it to you so that you all will be calm and satisfied. As for your dissatisfaction with the applicable laws, the Law on Referendum and Provisions, yes, you have said well that it is missing, but I believe that you have had the opportunity to see through the media that the Ministry of Administration has formed a working group, that it will work on a new Law on Referendum, you will have the opportunity to discuss it very recently in HS, and I believe that we will all make our contribution together, to make a good referendum, which will not allow any more of these situations and which will find a better and more transparent way to sort out one of, I would say, the fundamental democratic rights of citizens, which is to decide in the referendum. And all four or three hundred and seventy thousand of our fellow citizens who have signed here, I appreciate them, here, this way I take off my hat, it's their democratic right to state their position, and who's to blame? It is the referendum initiatives that have been responsible for marifetteluk which have found dead, under-age people without Croatian citizenship, who have enrolled them and contaminated the entire.../incomprehensible/...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128734	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Miro Bulj, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128735	The minister hurt the entire Rules of Procedure again because he told Mr. Dolnjak who spoke on behalf of the club that he was lying, however, he is not lying. There are no checklists in the Assembly with lists, books where voters are listed. But, here, let's break this session, deliver it to us, print it from digital to paper or send us an app, however you like, and let's see what those names are. You now state some examples of 407,000 people. 40 invalid ballots We don't have any insight into that. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] fellow MPs.../incomprehensible/... which we don't see, why? [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] Because Lovro Kushčević Destroyed the lists. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] You've destroyed Show me, why are you waving my hand? [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, please sit in your seat.]] What are you waving at me for? Well, this guy's waving his hand at me, he's waving at me. [[Intruder: colleague Bulj.]] You should have warned him. [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, please sit in your seat. You're done.]] Because he told the Downworlder that he was lying, the man asked to be shown the checklist yesterday, the President of the Parliament wouldn't take him in, Secretary of Parliament... [[You're done.]] [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128736	Comrade Bulj, I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of the debate for today's day. Comrade Bull, take your seat. Based on an article. 241. I'm moving you away from the plenary session until the end of today. Sit down, please. Have a seat, Comrade Bull. ... Col. Bulj, based on Article 241(3), I give you a distance from the double session for today and tomorrow, please leave the plenary hall. ... [[I don't understand.]] Thank you. I'm setting a break for 20 hours and 30 minutes. [[I don't understand.]] It's 20, 15 o'clock. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the plenary session, we have several replicas on the presentation of Minister Kuščević. [[CONTINUATION OF THE MEETING IN 20.30 HOURS]] First replica, dear colleague of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128738	I can't replicate because the minister doesn't have it, it doesn't make sense, can we wait for the minister's arrival?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128739	Your right to replicate is his right not to be present.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128740	So I'm calling on the minister's word and we're going to be in the morning as the MOST club shows up at the Department of Administration and we're going to ask them to print out our checklists because the minister said there's no problem with that. If we don't get that tomorrow, all the checklists with the invalid signatures, it's clear what this is all about, so I'm referring to his word here. As for the other debates, it is clear that there is an attack on the referendum here by those who would not be sitting here in the Croatian Parliament if what this referendum proposes was applied and these are 3 preferential votes, preferential voting or electronic voting. And this is no battle for HDZ because if we had an electronic vote, HDZ certainly wouldn't be in power in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128741	I thank my esteemed colleague, Grumoji. Next replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128742	Thank you. There is one issue that is completely illogical and that is that the government should be neutral about any referendum issue which is completely illogical, so each political party has a position on a particular issue and the government can only be neutral if one coalition partner has one opinion and the other has another, this is not the case here. So if the government supports this type's initiatives, there would be no need for a referendum, the government would propose legislation, its parliamentary majority would adopt it and which referendum. And as for the government as an institution, it must be impartial in terms of administrative matters, counting signatures, etc., but as far as political attitude is concerned, there is no neutrality. By default, the opponents are a referendum initiative because if the government wanted to support something, it would do so to its parliamentary majority. Therefore, it is not logical to call the government not neutral, by definition it must not be neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128743	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. Next replica, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128744	Thank you very much. Dear Minister Kuščević, so you're pretending to be a big Democrats here and I don't know, a free world view on you, but the facts are all over you every day. Here you have written for your members a form forbidding them to speak in front of the court and the police. You're asking your members to sign a silent statement and the silent statement is signed by other than the HDZ, the only Sicilian mafia. You're asking me not to, that people tell you how many receipts they have, that they give you all their personal data that you're going to have, and whatever you want and ask them not to even speak about information that is not secret and that has nothing to do with your party, means that's the dictatorship of the HDZ that's visible at every step and that negates your insistence to appear as a democratically-oriented minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128745	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac, for the replica. Next replica, dear colleague of the Sun's Head, come in. You've raised your line, my colleague. You've forgotten a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128746	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister, I wanted to remind you once again of what you said, so all the signatures, the originals were deposited in the Croatian Parliament. For those who say they could not have seen the signatures, I remind you that last year, in the November ministry of the administration, it called on all interested people to be able to make an insight into the signatures. So from 19 to 21, all those who wanted to have an insight into their own signatures, then for the two initiatives were dates from 26 to 28 November, etc. So all the MPs, all who were interested, last year in November could have seen what they were interested in. The 1001st time was told a lie and the truth that someone was looking for the Croatian Assembly signatures and that they could not find them, it was simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128747	I thank my esteemed colleague. The next replica, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128748	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary, you wondered who was to blame and then you said that the referendum initiatives. First and foremost, it's the bad referendum law that allows all this stuff. So, first we don't have the regulations or we have any control at all about collecting signatures, so one of these two initiatives itself said at one point that they didn't have enough signatures, that they didn't have enough signatures, then they sorted it all together for a month and a half days after the signing deadline ended, and then all of a sudden the signatures showed up. So it's not legally prescribed, and there's already open doubts about just collecting signatures. On the other hand, there is no way of verifying, and you did not manage as minister well because the whole process was not transparent enough, no clear messages were sent, and that is why this whole chaos was created, so the guilt was divided and what we need, we urgently need a new referendum law that will prescribe all these misunderstandings so that these things don't happen to us anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128749	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Answer, Minister Kuščević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128750	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So the law is really bad, it's full of blanks, it needs to be done, and here it is, already in the first quarter of this year, it's going to see the light of day, you're going to have a chance here in Saba to make it better and better. But it's not true what you said was our fault, that, that we left blanks, etc., no. So it's clearly decided who's going to check the signatures, it's clearly made, so I personally signed what the signature has to contain and we've stuck to the minimum, name, name, OIB and that the person signed by hand. We took into account everything and what we know to be signed in BiH, that they were signed in Austria, that they were signed in Germany, we took into account everything that was signed on the hoods of cars, they have all these photos, we have it all, but we really respected it, we wanted the will of the people to come to terms, but only the will of living, adult Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128751	I thank Minister Kuštević for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate, on behalf of the Zivniga Club, you've reached out to the replica of your colleague Podolnjak, just a little colleague of Podolnjak, please sit down. So, you've reached out to the replica, you're right, but unfortunately, by the basis of the Rules of Procedure, you've used your right to the replica because you've replicated three times already, so unfortunately, I can't even call you. Don't you understand? So, you've replicated three times, if you don't believe me, you can look at and listen to the phonogram, so if I'm wrong, I'll apologize, but I don't think I am. Thank you very much. A fellow Downhill, please. On behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Representatives Club, dear colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128752	Dear ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the results of the signing process for the referendum and the state claims that it was on the bench, that 1% or 2% of the signatures were missing for both issues. Of course, the insight into the controversial signatures of the people who collected them does not want the state to give. Why? We can only guess. However, what I would like to say is not the problem of the referendum in the Republic of Croatia, here is the problem of the EU-wide democratic deficit. Everyone, in fact, you know that 2/3 of the laws that we bring here don't depend on us at all, but come to us from Brussels, Brussels gives them here, that we also have to take them for a pattern in an emergency procedure. And the question arises, if we have to, it was very impressive, if I remember Agent Felak well, he said, does not ask the EU to ask us to amend the INA Privatisation Act, he says, but rather threatens us with penalties and sanctions, they have filed a lawsuit against us and like us to avoid whether these problems are as urgent as we are then changing the INA Privatisation Act. And I would like to say that, imagine that the European Directive says that, let's say that GMO food must be allowed to be imported, and that a sufficient number of people who say come out to the referendum, we are against the import of GMO food into the Republic of Croatia. And even if people went to a referendum and supported such an opinion, do you think that the state could implement such a law forbidding GMOs? No, you wouldn't. Why? Because Europe, or Brussels, is above us. So if Brussels says something's going on, it's going on, if Brussels says something's not going on, it's not going on, regardless of the will of our people, about the will of the voters, about the will of the people who went on the referendum. And this, this deficit of democracy, has resulted, for example. As the organizers of the referendum ended in Spain, so they took them to courts, tried people, you know, wanted to prevent a referendum on Crimea, but failed. But what do I want to tell you? Yes, even though the English in the referendum said they wanted to leave the EU, and you see, Britain still hasn't come out, as if in that EU the opinion of people doesn't matter, simply bureaucrats in Brussels, they determine that things will work in one way and that's it, there's no debate. And here today I want to tell the Croatian people, Croatian voters and, of course, all those who live in the Republic of Croatia, other than Croats, that the people no longer rule the state, the people are no longer the bearer of power, because that the government is the bearer of power and that by the choice of their representatives they represent and that the government comes from the people, it would mean that we are the ones who make the laws or that the people or we are as legislative bodies or government, let's say that Mr. Plenkovic sends us some law, so we vote it. But as you know, that's not the case, the laws come from Brussels, they just translate here and go by emergency procedure and they have to vote, is that the will of the people? And another interesting thing Felak said, he says, we EU i.e. EU legislation says, we have to accept it, it has been done to us or maybe it hasn't really worked out for us, notice what thought, so it's not even questionable whether there may be provisions in Europe that don't come our way, so there are some provisions that we might not want to do. However, imagine that now, for example, there is an EU law that our voters do not want and voters go to the referendum and Mr Kuščević says all the signatures are for five, organised, collected and the result is the people do not want some law. But can the Republic of Croatia refuse to implement EU legislation? Ha, he can stall, but then what he's saying is he follows sanctions, sanctions, threats, etc. There it is, ladies and gentlemen, it is the ladies and gentlemen of Croatia's reality, so the legislative authority is alienated from the Croatian Parliament, it is today in Brussels, the opinion of bureaucrats from Brussels is more important than citizens' opinions. This is the situation today, and as for all citizens who voted against the referendum, i.e. who signed to hold the referendum could see that the idea of a referendum defends, say Zlatko Hasanbegovic, a man who entered the assembly through the HDZ list, and who saved HDZ's government from falling, and now he says as a magistrate Plenkovic this, Master Plenkovic that. So I'm asking Mr. Hasanbegovic, unfortunately he's gone now, Mr. Hasanbegovic, where you were while the thunder was why you didn't tell Master Plenkovic here, Mr. Plenkovic I'm denying you my support, you're not leading the policy as you should. Unfortunately, Mr. Hasanbegovic then, when he could do it, he did it, and now he, as he would say, is late Marko coming to Kosovo, now he post a invoice, what comes after all and now he yells at HDZ, etc. We're not that forgetful ladies and gentlemen. And this whole situation I would say traces of comics in which the state is located is the result of dishonesty, dishonesty and voters and politicians, and why, because voters say we wouldn't want anything, but they say as we would like in the EU, but in the EU you have to. So the EU isn't a community that's based on take or leave the base, like if you want, it's like coming to a girl you don't want to do something and then she says, "I will or won't," you don't have to, it's violence, and what's most interesting of all they've told us when we get into the EU, we're gonna sit at a big table there, and I'm so imagining it, and I believe it, and you and then we from Croatia are going to co-determinate, co-determining with Angela Merkel, with Macron and who don't. However, the question is raised after all these years in the EU, what was Croatia's decision on which decisions Croatia took part in the EU, or whether it had an impact on its adoption. And why I ask that, because when they ask Master Plenkovic, our distinguished prime minister, they ask him what your position is on some matter, and then he says when I consult with our partners, then I'll tell you what our position is. That sounds to me, imagine someone asking me Mr. Pernar what your opinion is about some question, and I say listen when a woman tells me what I can say, and then I'll tell you that. However, as I said in the EU we are not asked anything, Croatia is less than 1% in the EU, we are not absolutely deciding anything in the EU. And one of the few things in which we participated was, let's say, a vote for the President of this Tajani European Parliament who said that essentially, that Dalmatia and Istria are Italian, that is, the reach of Croatian politics. And then he apologizes like God, but he doesn't actually say, no Istria and Dalmatia are Croatia, no he didn't say that, but as I'm sorry that people got me wrong, like there was a misunderstanding, etc., etc. But there was no misunderstanding, he spoke to his voters who might want Italy and Istria to be Italian, but instead of our prime minister having, for example, representatives in the Croatian Parliament, he has Mr. Tajani, Mrs. Merkel for his friends, so as if Mrs. Merkel cared about us and our fate. I spoke in my own time about all the lies that the EU has given us, among other things, when you join the EU, a big market will open up for you. You all remember that from 500 million people, half a billion people, one would say that our industrial production will therefore experience boom, but we see industrial production has suffered a decline. They have now closed one plant in Đura Djakovic, the shipyards most have gone bankrupt and the question is what they are doing and how much more they will survive and not only that, I say constantly that since entering the EU the production of wine has fallen 40%, now they will say someone good Mr. Pernar, so is wine so important and you drink, I don't drink, but I want to point to our agricultural breakdown. Now the article has come out that in 10 years milk production has also dropped 40%, 40%, and you will see that the number of people in the regions that produce food has also fallen. Croatia received absolutely nothing from the EU, when they say they gave the Pelješki bridge of 2 billion, only to pay off loans to those Western credit institutions, we will give 35 billion kuna this year, only to pay off loans. For EU membership fee of EUR 550 million or 4 billion, it means only on loan payments and membership fees to the West, and add to that profits that foreign EU banks extract from Croatia at an annual level and you will get more than 40 billion kuna figures.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128753	Comrade Pernar, I've been putting up with you for two minutes. You're talking about a subject that has nothing to do with the agenda. I would ask you nicely to return to the track and drive in the direction in which the agenda is set and to talk about the subject under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128754	If the citizens of the Croatian state went to the referendum and where the question would be, do you want the Croatian state to continue these billions every year to give out, and even if they said they didn't want to, I'm sure they would say, but our partners in Brussels say they can't do it. Things mine to go in this order etc. And ultimately, every people's initiative will be broken. Regardless of whether it was an initiative against the privatisation of HEP, against the privatisation of HAC, or the completion of the privatisation of INA. This government, the government, thanks to lies. Lies like they won't let the refinery in Sisak shut down. And the refinery's closed. With lies, such as those, that they would, for God's sake, collect the INA, and return it to the INA in Croatian hands. That's what Prime Minister Plenkovic said. Today we know it was a lie. The question of how many more lies will have to be revealed and, in fact, you will see very quickly, that not only the Government is lying to us and to those from Brussels, and the people by choosing those who support Brussels, or this foreign governance policy, are actually taking away their own right to decide because in order to have the right to decide, they should be able to consume that right, and he can't, in fact, because I explained that the regulations are being made in Brussels, that the Ministry of Administration is not prone to these referendums because he knows that once and for a time there might be some tricky question that might not be asked, and then they say, listen, there's a 1% of signatures missing. 1%, so close and so far. You know who that reminds me of? There's one thought in the context of saving a man. He says he's almost saved. Is a man almost saved, lost, or saved? I mean, he's kind of missed it. It was a little short. But it's clear that his fate is black. And so with this referendum, it was a little short, but I don't think it was because of those who were collecting signatures, but because of those who were counting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128755	Thank you. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS, dear colleague Milorad Pupovac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128756	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. After this debate of my colleague Pernar, all I have left to talk about is the submarine world, fish, algae and other marine organisms. But since I'm not qualified here, I'm the only one qualified to be able to swim in seawater and enjoy the beauty of the sea on land, so I won't even get into it. I'll say next. I agree that there have been errors regarding the referendum initiative, but not at the end, but at the beginning. Not during the count, but during the campaign and the signing. And it goes like it didn't happen. It goes as well as where the signatures were collected and who served to collect signatures. And the means used by people in the campaign to collect signatures. Not anxious to reach out to spread international hatred, neither fear nor fear, nor to spread hatred toward members of individual minority nations and MPs in this House. And not afraid of them cheating on big and wide people and selling fog. They pooped that they didn't have enough room to sign because some municipalities and cities wouldn't let them. But that's why they reached out to all those who let them. And those who put themselves above the municipalities, above the cities, above the state. More signatures were collected and collected in front of a space called profano, a space before entering the church, dragging people by the sleeve and saying vote, sign against Pupovac. And I'm so sorry they didn't collect a million signatures to hold a referendum against the Pupovec. Or Pupaci, as they say most often. I'm so sorry. I would love to see what that referendum will look like against one man in a rich, free, democratic country where I've been eating political bread and sharing it for 30 years. And as for this, I am not surprised at the hypocrisy that is heard here in the House, from the descendants or the branches of the initiative, which is not ashamed to have collected nearly 8,000 double signatures and all three initiatives. They are not ashamed, of course, of the fact that almost 2,000 signatures have been collected from people whose personal data or personal identification numbers do not belong to this country. They are not, of course, ashamed or ashamed to list persons who are not adult, who are children, and even less, because they listed those who are not alive, who have died. And yet by extending the referendum time, after a certain time for the same, to collect signatures, nothing to anyone. If the state had done its job, you who call today a state, you'd be smaller than a macaque grain together, with those who organised the referendum initiative, but didn't. She has tolerated doing what she tolerates otherwise to do what must not be done by law or law. So she tolerated, that those who said, we didn't collect the signatures, after 15 days say, we collected the signatures. And then we got to someone to say, where are the checklists? Someone called the working materials checklists, whoever did it, I don't know if anyone did it, did it from the government, if someone was doing it from the opposition, or from the ruling majority, but he was wrong. He made a mistake because he called it a name that he didn't. The checklist can only be the one in the Assembly, the checklist can only be the one on the electronic memory in the APIS and the control mechanism can only be someone's personal document. And the checklist, as we tried to find out and the checklist wasn't and it wasn't done. What was done was work material. One who does not believe in this work material can, on the basis of a right, which allows the law to verify whether there is credibility between one and the other documents. And to continue the story of the referendum, when it's quite clear, that this referendum has only one goal, that's how to come to power. How to come to power with the help of God’s story of modernity. How much modernity do you think will be provided by allowing more violence against women in the country? Imagine how much modernity will be ensured by telling some, not telling us whether we from this pay phone, telling some mayor that he is gay, or not telling some MPs that she is a lesbian, as we heard here today, and it went as no one has said anything, and all the great Christians. All exceptional Catholics and Croatian modernists who are threatened by gays and Serbs and I don't know who else. And who's threatening them? They themselves, unfulfilled, unlived gays, in moral and every other word. Unfulfilled Croats, who are unable to understand that they are not Serbs, who remain living in Croatia and who represent the Serbs, the problem is themselves. Because they don't know who they are, what they are, where they're going and how they're going with them. So as they spit in Belgrade yesterday, they spit in Brussels today, and they never look at themselves where one should look, in the eyes of others or in the mirror. These are the modernities, which reportedly offer the possibility, as it does now, of our hero, whom others proclaim homosexuals and flee from this House so-called. Zekanovic. I'm ashamed to share this hall with people who think that and talk about other people like that. And they should bring prosperity to this country and they should provide this country with true identity. And they should provide this country with freedom. And they're actually bringing us back to the dark dark. So this really isn't a question of whether the people who did this job entrusted to them by the government did the job right. This is the story of those who have been gathering signatures and campaigning, who have served, the most inadmissible means to barely collect signatures, and then a professor as he said constitutional law, calls for the will of the people. Yes, any scum today can be called to the will of the people, and that is why it is the way it is for us, and it will be so long before the people see through that scum.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128757	I thank my esteemed colleague, Pupovac, we have one violation of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Nikola Grmoy, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128758	Dear Vice President, I have been injured by article 238 of the grief that you have not responded to such a dramatic statement by Mr. Pupovac, who is Professor Podonjac and all those who do not agree with his vision of reality called the hoarse and the rest of us who have supported it means change of electoral system not because our colleague Pupovac is important to us and relevant as he thinks he is relevant but because we believe that this electoral system It favors these big parties and we're looking for means a more direct democracy. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Electronic voting, no one here [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Not the Serbs, not the homosexuals, but that's why you dared. [[I'd like to thank you.]] To insult those who don't think like you, so much about your democracy. [[I'd like to thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128759	I thank you for your injury to the Rules of Procedure, you have abused the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not consider that the Rules of Procedure has been injured. On the basis of Article 240, I give you a reminder by taking away the words until the end of this item of the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128760	And fellow Pupovci for insult, fellow Pupovac, is it nothing?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128761	We move on to the next debate on behalf of the club, colleague of the Grmoi Comrade Grumoja please allow us to continue the work of the plenary session. [[Intruder: So there is no warning for these words.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128762	No, I'll let you do what you decided, HDZ, SDP, SDSS and the rest of the coalition, here's counterpart Batinic,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128763	I give you a distance from the session until the end of today, based on Article 241. We continue with the work of the plenary session on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HNS esteemed colleague Batinić Milorad.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128764	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Ministers, State Secretary, colleagues and colleagues today, in today's debates, everything was heard. But what I want to say today is that we decide on the conclusion of the Constitutional Committee and the Rules of Procedure, which concludes and the proposal for a conclusion, we will absolutely accept that no initiative has gathered enough signatures. Technically and comparing and comparing procedures that are very precise in the government's report in one acceptable and satisfactory way from the presented are described procedures, we can accept that. However, Ministers can also mean that the commission you appointed and all those procedures that, following the submissions of the citizens' initiatives, followed that you were what was acceptable to me as a liberal, you were more than liberal, but I have certain doubts about respecting certain articles of the law in that check, I believe that you should have been more rigorous. And that's exactly what you can read from your reasons. A very precise methodology has been described, a way of checking the number and authenticity of the signatures and of course we can accept that you will not look for graphological findings, but equally from this report is very visible in several examples that one and the same person was writing and even signing what you have proven yourself. Although Article 8e. The law on voter referendum means we are talking about the need to request the registration to register their name and last name, personal identification number and to be signed in person. That you were literally not allowed to comply with the articles of the law. The same way that the parts that were taught were to be numbered, that they should have been reported places where they were collected, that you were literally applying the articles of the law you should have rejected somewhere over 31,000 signatures, you accepted and said acceptable, we can accept it, tolerate it, because I believe that even those who collected those signatures were not easy within 15 days which was legally defined, although it is realistically possible to collect signatures clearly as you have announced, I believe that the new proposal of the Law on Referendum will, when it comes to parliamentary debate, have to define these things more precisely. As for what is certainly in this numerical part, reading the numbers, and yet seeing the referendum as a direct form of public statement, means the will of the citizens of what is saddening and what is surprising to me that a very large number of colleagues here in the assembly are persistently denying this report to highlight the mistrust in the institutions, the state commission in the APIS, in the commission appointed, here you can see in the report the exact signatures, personal signatures of the people, members and members of the commission doing the job. I don't understand where the mistrust comes from, and it's very simple to prove, and anyone can verify the authenticity of the signature and what's written in the report. What certainly in one way of expressing democratically direct expression which casts a single ugly image I will take only the citizens' initiative Truth in Istanbul, 8,000 double signatures, I think there are a little too many double signatures to talk about unintentionalness, indiscretion, especially when you have 2594 signatures where the OIB does not exist at all, is not recorded in the voters' register. Equally, 420 people were not adult. Did we come to this level to manipulate minors? 158 people are not Croatian citizens, 240 people have passed away before the signatures were collected. Well, I'd like all of these, unfortunately, to leave, if they were ashamed of them, so it would be human if what they've been saying and representing and defending them, or saying against this report, not stating the arguments, but in some sense, they're voting here and the dead, and it's embarrassing. This is more than a sufficient number to look at one initiative, a referendum initiative, regardless of the motive, regardless of the subject being processed and the subject of a potential referendum, not from personal or political level, that these citizens' initiatives should be ashamed of this, should be ashamed and asked whether they are worthy of even saying, unless I agree with their initiatives, whether they are worthy of all these signatures, valid signatures of citizens or voters in the Republic. It's less or less the same situation with the others, the other two referendum initiatives. So, of course, it will be necessary to amend the Law on Referendum and precisely the basis of this experience and the experiences of previous referendums, far more precisely, more quality, to resolve the issue and future initiatives for signing, for the referendum, and as well as the referendum statement itself. Of course, I would like to say a few words about matter or about being, or about, the very ideas of citizens' initiatives that they wanted to achieve with this referendum. As for the part, and we are talking about the Electoral Law, HNS is not a foreign preferential vote, no, however, we also had in 2015 and I think there was a bill where we proposed that preferential voting should be respected as at national level, as well as in local and regional elections, just to allow citizens to prefer by preferential vote persons from the lists they want, whether one, two, three votes, we have no problem with that, and we will absolutely support the bill that will make it possible. As for the part, in the electoral legislation, the number of MPs in HS, I think that's the topic, about election units, absolutely that needs to be discussed primarily by us at the HNS here in HS and where HS should pass the law as such. I'm not sure how much it is, how credible and ready it can be. As for the part, where one part of our MPs and representatives of national minorities are placed through the initiative in the position of low-level representatives, representatives with voting rights only on some points of the agenda, so I think more than a step back, is more than a step back. And as for the finality of the Istanbul Convention, we have very clearly articulated our views, we stand still today and I believe that a modern, modern Republic, civil Republic, must not even think of such a thing. As for human rights, human freedoms, that, I believe, and the Constitutional Court, if that procedure had taken place, would have had to put an end to these processes. The HNS Club will accept a report or a proposal for the Committee's conclusion, I believe that even though they did not state any, absolutely no arguments, although here in the debate by the Minister it was explained and the procedure itself, and the possibility of control, they unfortunately do not want to believe. The fact is that a group here has been working for several months on the destruction of HS, on obstruction and simply denying the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia, and I don't think that's good. Unfortunately, it is precisely they who receive the most notice, disfellowshipping them from the session, the very ones whose club in the previous assembly is more closely ahead of us the code of conduct in HS, absurd.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128765	I would like to thank my colleague Batnic for the next debate, on behalf of the GLAS Club and HSU respected colleague Vesna Pusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128766	Good evening, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to try to divide my discussion into 3 parts, i.e. 3 aspects of this topic that's on the agenda. One procedure, therefore, is what has happened and what has been substrated in this proposal's conclusion. The GLAS and HSU club is in opposition to the opposite side of the government, but some basic and fundamental rules and some respect for institutions still have to be held in our opinion, because if we go ourselves to destroy our institutions, and even so, which perhaps some others who should stick to it as well, and when they are in opposition, they are not quite as firm in that. I think we should stick to it anyway, 'cause it's supposed to start somewhere. So, these signatures were not proposed, controlled by the government, controlled by the institutions, which we have chosen here, put out, such as the State Election Commission, such as officials in the ministry in charge and what we would have to ask about, is how there are even dozens of them, and not hundreds of them, how there are forged signatures, or who faked the signatures by getting inside, dead, underage children, that someone had to do. That didn't happen by accident, that someone came and signed their dead mom. Because if you have hundreds of thousands of such signatures, then it's someone conscious and with that intention working, and it can be the only sign collectors, there's no one else who could have done it. So, if anything at this point raises suspicion, it's the ones who made those forgeries. I have to agree with those who have said that you should probably watch not only obvious such forgeries, so, dead, underage children, people without the OIB, etc. but hundreds and thousands of those who were signed in the same way, but it was obviously too much of a task at the moment, however, even where it was quite unquestionable, that there was a counterfeiting is enough that purely at the procedural level of this initiative did not have enough signatures. Some of the colleagues here said it was up to the Constitutional Court to decide, so I don't see what the Constitutional Court would decide. The Constitutional Court may decide whether a question is appropriate, whether a question is in accordance with the Constitution or not, but whether it has a sufficient number of signatures, there is not what the Constitutional Court decides, it is also summed up by the basis of that number, we can make our decision. We can say, of course we don't believe in any institutions in Croatia, but then we put the key in the lock and we go home, because then there's no need to talk about anything here at all. Therefore, if we agree that at least some of the procedures, therefore, and some of the insinuations that we have established to carry out these procedures to reflect them, these institutions have established what we have in this report on the basis of which this conclusion is proposed. And from that point of view, especially, I must say that I am a little excited and alarmed by that public debate that reported that some of the lists had been destroyed. However, it is now seen that this is available and that the lists have not been destroyed and I think it is very irresponsible to claim that the lists have been destroyed, because people, when they hear something like that, think they have taken the signed lists and simply destroyed parts of those lists, which, again, absolutely destroys any trust in the institutions of the system, in the institutions of the state. And with that population, I think that kind of approach, and it seems to me that it's really not true, that it was done, that kind of approach, is actually unusually destructive and unspeakable, as far as these topics are concerned. So, if it's in line with what's said here, which is repeatedly repeated, I also, before, went online during the debate to find out how I can get the APIS data and there I got the information how it's possible. So if I could get there from the bench probably anyone can go and trust in what way, you can get insight into those data, which are stored there. So, as far as the procedure is concerned, apparently, those accomplished legions of artis, and from that point of view, I think we can get the conclusion from this proposal as proposed. Another topic I would like to say a few words about, because colleagues here have repeated several times or several colleagues have reiterated that the referendum is the highlight of democracy. That's what I'd like to question very vigorously. So there are some of the founders of the modern state and the modern idea of democracy, such as the author of the American Constitution James Madison, who do not view direct democracy at all, who believe that direct democracy is too prone to demogogues, instantaneous blasphemers who climb the stage or the pay phone and very easily persuade people to metaphorically kill Socrates. It wasn't, it was literally like that, but in this case metaphorically. A good example of this is for those who are interested and can be found on the Internet, we read it but we forgot in Shakespeare's Julie Caesar speech by Mark Antoni. It's a fantastic example of what a demagogue can do with direct democracy. So they should use very wisely in those situations where political responsibility is not a key issue because one of the things that direct democracy carries with it is that those who decide to absorb from responsibility. There is no subject of responsibility except the people and, of course, the people are never guilty. Therefore, under these conditions the whole idea of responsibility in politics is just connected to this idea of representative democracy, because it, in it, has a name and a name. And that's why this glorification of the referendum as a festival of democracy is totally the opposite, extremely questionable, read anything toxqueville, Montesque, not to mention about Madison who directly writes about it but also contemporary authors. So I think it is important in one institution, the highest institution of representative democracy in each country, such as parliament clearly to come out with mystification directly or to expose this mystification of direct democracy as a festival of democracy. It's like Madison said on the very edge of terror piles. So it's more subject to manipulation than any other form of decision. There are situations in which it is appropriate but certainly not one such example is the Paris community one of the pretty bloody experiences in history but certainly not the festival of democracy or the highest form of democracy. And finally, the third topic that has been discussed here today has been the very questions which the initiators have asked themselves to put themselves on this referendum that comes first in line with various decorative and additional questions that do not require a referendum because they can discuss and decide in the Assembly. The main issues are to discriminate against the representatives, the parliamentary representatives of minorities and cancel a contract that honestly says very mildly as it is visible, but at least at the level of some political will stands in counter-violence in the family and violence against women, that is to say to return this violence to the sphere of privacy and say it to nobody, it happens in the family, there is nothing to intervene there. In this regard, I think that in this regard, my colleague Vučetic has spoken well of these topics, so what he should be asking about in the referendum here, so I will not bother you any further, I will simply say that the GLAS and HSU club supports what the topics that would be in the referendum are about, supports what counterpart Vučetic said. And as far as this proposal is concerned, we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128767	I thank my esteemed colleague Pusic. We're moving on to the next debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, dear colleague Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128768	Good evening, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President, distinguished secretary of state. The fact that we're here today and we're discussing these conclusions shouldn't have happened. And it should not have happened for one very simple reason because in a modern and democratic society and I believe that we all want Croatia to be just such a modern and democratic society should not seek to limit women's rights, nor minority rights, whether national, whether sexual, or any third. And what we are discussing here is, in our very essence, not the conclusions but precisely that, the referendum initiatives that go right behind the restriction of someone's rights, and quite accidentally how it usually happens when this brotherhood is gathered today in the People's Republic, and yesterday, in the name of the family, it is seeking to limit the rights of vulnerable groups, those who are weaker in society and those who are often, often hard to defend from these attacks. In a normal democratic society, our task would be to speak about how their rights increase. A normal task for us would be to discuss how to better implement the Istanbul Convention. In a normal democratic society, we would discuss the effects of implementing this convention to see where we were wrong. No, we here have to discuss why her impeachment is required, and even in the matter that, with the dazzling acrobatics, requires amendments to the Constitution to allow it to be allowed because we all know that the question, how it was set at the very beginning, was not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, we are discussing these referendum initiatives because in our society there are groups with the right very conservative and clerical political spectrum that are entitled to claim to speak for the entire people. These groups, I believe, not just on their own behalf, I'm ordering, don't speak for us. Don't speak for me, and don't let that happen again. This morning, about 10 o'clock, 11 o'clock, I had a chance to listen to my colleague Pernar say in his debate he suggested that we imagine that some MPs might not have the right to vote. Mr. Pernar, who defended these referendum initiatives today, shouldn't have imagined it at all. He should have taken one of the proposed referendum issues and seen what it would look like if some MPs were deprived of certain rights and become what he called them, voyeurs. To just sit here, here and there, something to mention, and when it's voted on things that are crucial for a country, most importantly, which is the budget, which depends on the financing of the entire state apparatus and the state, and the vote on the formation of an executive authority, must be excluded. Not because they're better or worse than any of us. Not because they received more or less votes because, for example, a respected colleague of Pupovac, who spoke before me, had received about 20 times more votes than Mr Markic, who initiated this referendum, but who should be deprived of their rights in HS because they are Serbs, Slovenians, Italians, Albanians or something else in general because they are not Croats. We can't support that. We in the SDP for such referendum initiatives and for calling such referendums, vote, never will. Not today. And that is why we will support the conclusions proposed by the Committee on the Constitution and which we are discussing here today. However, the fact that we do not support these referendum initiatives, the fact that we consider them unconstitutional, deeply immoral and contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not mean that other things, which are related to this referendum process, we must be silent, we must close our eyes and pretend that they have not happened. I'm afraid in this case, it's a serious failure by the Department of Administration. Control lists are not signed lists, as some try to display and as some try to falsely score. The checklists are really auxiliary work material. And I'm glad that after my insistence at the session of the Constitution Committee, which, unfortunately, made me have to leave that session and still the Ministry of Administration sent out an indication. But, I'm afraid, even today's day is not fully explained whether or not all the data that has been entered into the checklists are actually available in electronic form today. If they are, then I'll agree with my colleague Vučetic and say it's just a matter of media, not a question of information. If they're not, it's a serious failure. But what happened was also a serious mistake. And I'll explain why. In this referendum procedure since the first day, the Ministry of Administration and the Minister of Administration have been placed extremely sloppy. And do you know who they helped most with that? Mr Markic, colleagues from MOST and all others who have failed to collect enough signatures for this initiative with all their manipulations. And what do they do now? Because of these mistakes by the Ministry of Administration, they appear to be victims. And those victims aren't. In this case they're all just not victims. They are thugs who tried to commit aggression against part of the Croatian people just because they thought they could do it and only because they unfortunately managed to do it once. The Ministry of Administration made a mistake, and regardless of the fact that this information may all really exist in electronic form, all the data, all the materials created in connection with this referendum process, should be preserved until its completion. Until the end of it, hand it over to the Parliament, even in sealed envelopes, even if it is marked that this cannot be accessed except under controlled conditions, and thus remove any suspicion, any suspicion of the bias of this process. I'm afraid that's not done. And Mrs. McNally. Pusic is only partly right when he claims this is about hitting institutions. Because in one part, it's really about a contract on institutions. But in the second part, the institutions, with their sloppyness, and I hope it's just sloppyness, have contributed to their reputation being even more broken. Unfortunately, something that happens too often in Croatia. However, as much responsibility as there is for the Ministry of Administration, it cannot be compared with the responsibility that exists on the side of the initiator of these referendum initiatives. First and foremost, of course, because of the fact that they dared, dared to attack vulnerable groups in this way. However, they did not stop there, they continued to act against not only the letter, but also the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the very foundation. The fact that someone who's dead, who's dead, signed, is not a mistake, is not a mistake. That means someone took someone else's personal data and put it in the signed list. For those who are dead, we could determine that, for those who are underage, we could determine that, but the legitimate question is, do they only care about the dead or the minors? I think that all of us here who have the minimum ability to think logically know that we don't care about the dead and the minors, and we know that among these signatures that the Ministry of Administration has found to be valid, there are a number of those who haven't given up the persons that are listed there. Unfortunately, because of the lack of our system, we cannot determine this and this is where we come to a third thing that may not be directly related to the very conclusion that we will vote on the day after tomorrow, but it is directly related to what we have reached this conclusion, which is the fact that the Croatian referendum framework is not arranged and hopefully, warmly I hope, that all of us on the political stage will serve these 3 referendum issues as a sobering and that we will finally get the strength to cross some current political gaps and solve this once and for all. This may not be a burning Croatian issue, such as the issue of the economy, such as the issue of emigration, but it is certainly one of the stones that makes a negative picture of the Republic of Croatia that has a large majority of us living here, those who have gone or those who look at us on the side. I appeal today on behalf of my club, we tabled a proposal and we gave an initiative to change the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. You don't have to accept it, give your proposal, but let's get our heads together and get rid of it, remove the possibility of us meeting again at 9, 10 o'clock in the evening, and that we're ashamed to look at each other because I believe that many of us today have been ashamed to listen to Mr. Zekanovic calling someone because of his sexual orientation, I think it might have been a shame, that such a person is sitting with us in a representative bench. Are we going to remove that? We probably won't, but we'll go in the direction of saying that this behavior isn't acceptable, and I think it's the first step towards making this country more modern, becoming a more orderly society, becoming a country where everyone wants to live, from somewhere we have to start, I invite you, I call you, to be the alarm bell after which we start because indeed, if you think, and I'm going to name them now, that Mrs. Markic, Mr. Ilicic, and similar in 6 months, will not start again collecting signatures for another, third, fourth or tenth initiative, if you think it will not happen because they have failed to collect signatures and if you think that we will be able to get away with what they have manipulated, so today they showed that there are 370,000 tomorrow, 400, then you are very wrong. Let's solve this problem, remove any possibility of us meeting again here and debate this kind of thing one more time. Once again, the SDP advocates' club will vote with immense satisfaction against the calling of a referendum that violates women's rights, the rights of national minorities and the rights of those in Croatian society today, unfortunately, weaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128769	We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague of the Sun's Head, here you go. Excuse me, colleague, just a minute, my colleague Bauk called.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128770	Mr. Vice President, my only appeal is to ensure the representatives of the motion to be at the hearing because none of those members of the Constitutional Committee are present. If that's not possible, my colleague Grbin and I volunteer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128771	Thank you. I'm setting a break to 21.55 hours. Interrupt session at 21.46 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since the promoter is present, we continue the work of the plenary session. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 21.56 HOURS]] An individual debate, a respected colleague of the Sun's Head, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since the conditions have been met and the promoter is here, I think we can proceed with the debate at 21, 56. So in my debate, I'm going to look briefly at the chronology of events and I'm going to remind myself of some of the facts that are listed in this report. Therefore, the referendum initiative, signatures or both of the signatures collected between 13th and 27th May 2018 so that the signatures would be submitted to the Croatian Parliament on 13th June 2018. At its meeting on 2 August, the government commissioned the Ministry of Coordination of Activities to be involved in the verification of the number and, of course, the credibility of all signatures and with requests submitted to the Croatian Parliament and the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of the Ministry of Interior to verify the legality of the collection of signatures. What was several times apostrophysed today, once again, all interested, and this was also the government's guide, who wanted, who participated either as a civil initiative or as citizens whose signatures could be complicit, who wanted to check whether the signatures were okay, could have done so, the Ministry of Public Call invited all citizens to do so and in a very transparent way were even proposed dates, exact terms for all those who wanted insight in any way. Therefore, citizens could do so from 19 to 21 November last year, then from 26 to 28, their representatives of “The Truth about Istanbul” and “The People decide” then the citizens’ initiatives could set up up up to 10 of their representatives who will have insight into the signatures or questions asked. Representatives of the "Truth of Istanbul" initiative from November 26th even received a term of exactly 9 to 15 hours and on November 27th, the Ministry of Administration invited them to look at invalid signatures. Equally, it was open to all others who have any doubt that something was wrong, they can have insight into those signatures. In order to remove all doubts and here there are no colleagues of the coat of arms but he asked the question and in his address on behalf of the SDP club, therefore all control lists exist, they are digitally. All signatures, all originals were deposited here in the Croatian Parliament, so all signed lists of voters who collected citizens' initiatives. I will not speak of procedural mistakes again, they were already spoken of by my predecessors, whether they were, whether it was the lack of the current Law on Referendum which is in force, we can discuss this, I think it would be good to consider the full amendment to the Law on Referendum in order to remove any doubt that has been shown here and on these issues why some questions and in accordance with the Constitution should not be questioned. During the verification of the number and the authenticity of the signature, it was found that an insufficient number of signatures was collected, provided either among them the signatures that were duplicated or multiple times the same, with no OIBs, deceased persons, etc. I would like to refer a little bit to the composition of the committee members, there have been a lot of diphases in discussions today from some colleagues, they have been called officials, they have been called incompetent, so I think we should say that the commission has had seven members from the Ministry of Administration, the MUP, the Personal Data Protection Agency. For all those who have spoken in such an inappropriate way about the people to whom this responsible task has been entrusted, please look at page 10, after all, to see which people it is, it is the people who are longtime associates or employees of the mentioned ministries with their competences, and I think they were completely impartial when they were looking at the lists they were assigned, or verifying their signatures. As regards irregularities, therefore the citizens' initiative "Truth on Istanbul", the Ministry of Administration found that 3 747 409 Croatian citizens were enrolled in the register of voters on 13 May last year, the executive provided the Commission with control lists with a total of 45 328 correct signatures. The criteria according to which some were found to be incorrect were so I am talking about the citizens' initiative ‘The Truth of Istanbul’, 8 000 double signatures, 2594 of the non-existent OIB, 428 of the people at the time of the signing were not full-aged, 158 of the persons who were not Croatian citizens at all on these checklists, 248 of them were dead at the time of the signature collection and 33 of 554 of the signatures were found to be invalid because there was no personal name on the signed list or did not correspond to the personal name in the register of voters, inaccesssible data, incorrect OIB etc. As regards the citizens' initiative "The People Decisions", the Commission found that there were 7 488 double or double signatures, 1,844 non-existent OIBs or no other records, 365 persons were not allowed to be registered at all on these signatures, 332 non-Croatian citizens, 120 persons deceased at the time of the signing and more than 30,000 signatures were found to be invalid for similar reasons, the personal name on the signed list does not correspond to the personal name in the register of voters, etc. As for the People's Citizens' Initiative, so the third one on the completion of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was double signatures of over 7,000, 1,800 non-existent OIBs, 354 minors whose signatures were found here, 321 persons were not Croatian citizens, 115 deceased before the start of signing and 30,626 signatures were found incorrect again on the signed list for reasons as stated by the Commission earlier. Finally, I will say that trust in institutions if questioned by representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and we have heard this many times today, based on distorted information or arbitrary interpretations can be interpreted as a low level of competence. Citizens expect institutions with integrity, and if we and the Croatian Parliament have brought questions, we can answer ourselves, as citizens have evaluated us for several years, and especially this assembly of the Croatian Parliament and the shamefully low level of trust in the Croatian Parliament. As long as this integrity and our institutions collapse in the most terrestrial way, democratic values are also collapsing, and I don't think it's in anyone's interest. I therefore support this conclusion, and I also support some of the colleagues who said it would be good to regulate the referendum law, that anyone, any initiative on either side, would not use it for manipulative purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128774	Thank you, dear colleague Glavak, we have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128775	Thank you very much, colleague Glavak, in your rather interesting debate you have provided some information that you might agree with, what I most certainly have to say has been interesting that the government has failed to communicate in a very convincing way that eventually you were a media person who has had a lot of experience in this business, I have a feeling that we have a bad communicator in Minister Kušević who, with a lot of his little clumsy statements, has brought the whole process to one border that people think there is something more cloudy, that there is a little more transparent communication than you do in some situations or colleague Bačić who is quite experienced such a communicator then would probably be less of a problem. So on the other hand, on the other hand, I get the feeling that my colleague Kuščević brought a little bit of confusion and wrong messages. in public space. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128776	I would like to thank my colleague Maras, my colleague Glavak's reply, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Maras Minister Kuščević speaks and speaks, and he cannot outvote the thousands and times told a lie and you know it very well. When something comes to life in a public space that is placed as a lie or if you want a feik news, which is very popular, or if you want to deny something you know how to say what is a denial. Demantius is collecting feathers back into a pillow and it's very difficult. I think the government has been very transparent since the beginning of that I spoke about at the beginning of its debate, it opened up for everyone who wanted it in a very transparent way to make an insight. However, as something is placed in the media space, it is a second question. Everyone has their own specific means of communication, I think Minister Kuščević said was one in a hundred who spoke contrary to him and perhaps that's why you have such an impression. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128778	I thank my esteemed colleague, Glavak, for your reply. Next debate, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so what I want to say is a few short things about this proposal of the Constitution Committee, namely, I will support it and support it for two reasons. The first reason is that, first of all, I believe that these questions required in this referendum are unconstitutional and I do not need the Constitutional Court to assess it myself, so for me, any incurring to the rights of minorities and weaker groups in society is absolutely unconstitutional and I would like that today is the main reason why they reject these referendum initiatives precisely their unconstitutionalness. And the other reason why I'm going to support this proposal of the Constitutional Committee is because I believe that these initiatives have not collected enough signatures, I believe that I will not say it by the government and the ministry, but by the services of the expert of the APIS, etc., people who have done it, that the work has done well, that no one can convince me. And why, now I'm going to try to make an argument. So, the fact is that the referendum in Croatia is not well arranged and that this law that we have now is not good and that there are many questionnaires and there is a lot of open space, so for starters there is not even a proper way to collect signatures. So if we remember only the events that were then for the beginning part of the signature was collected in an untrue way, so people were deluded when they were collecting signatures, they weren't spoken truthfully and honestly about what these signatures were being collected for, so there was talk, it's gathering against this, it's gathering against that. One large part of the campaign was led in a way that tells people things that are not at all about the matter of the referendum, just to agree to give them their signature. The second thing, in half of the collection, means let's say halfway some measurement of time, the initiative's own representatives urged citizens to access the signature as much as possible because they will not be able to collect enough signatures until the end of the time period, so after a week of collection. And all the time they've put the story out in public we're away from collecting, join up, we have to gather, we have to pull, we have to make it work to the end. After the signing ceremony, after about 15 days, even the representatives of one initiative said, unfortunately we failed to raise 370 and some thousands, we were a little short, we failed, but for the second initiative we have a sufficient number. And then about a month ago, it sorted out, agreed to both sorting and agreeing on one and the representatives of the initiative that said they failed, now they succeeded. And they said here we have enough number. Now look, all these things are inconclusive to me. So it's not normal for me that if today, if you're due today and today you've finished collecting signatures that you sort them out for a month and that in the same way that you're now complaining to the government that you don't want to show the signed lists is someone somewhere asking God where the country where all these signatures closed and telling me now we're counting to 30 days after the collection say here we have enough. Who says and who can guarantee that in those 30 days these signatures have not continued to be collected, that they have not continued to be correspondence, etc. And on the other hand, after it started to check those signatures, that's where the government now made a mistake. So the government is non-transparent and not good communication, as some colleagues have said, endangering the done deal. It therefore questioned the credibility of the information on the number of signatures collected. And I think I agree with my colleague Maras that one of the biggest culprits in that communication is Minister Kuščević, who has been making all along certain clumsy statements that then fueled the thesis of those who are now rebelling and who question that signature check. And it is interesting that in this government and Minister Kuščević and let's say two or three other ministers have problems with communication. So they always need to be dissipated later, and they always need to be explained later on what they thought, what they said. Mr. Kuščević, in his communication not only on this subject and on a number of other topics, often says a bunch of stupid things that have nothing to do with a relationship, which no one is livingly asking, and then we wonder why public perception is such and has led to the fact that the last few months since this story has been a current minority that is loud and aggressively terrorising the majority. We, as Parliamentarians, are all getting some e-mails for almost 10, 15 days, and I'm still wondering where these initiatives are from in general and some of our data. Why does someone text me three times a day and tell me how he's been cheated by the government and how I don't know I don't see the end of my eyes, but someone needs to convince me and tell me to watch what I'm doing and watch how I'm gonna vote? Where'd he get that information? Also, representatives of the government, representatives of the proposings and representatives of the HDZ have now said that among the signatories there is a large number of deaths, that there are a large number of incorrect OIBs, that they are minors, that children, that they are foreign citizens, so that is also in so many numbers that it is not an accident. So those signatures were clearly written and inserted. So as some colleagues have said, we now know only of the dead, of the nonexistent, etc. And then how many forged signatures that are called so correct. And that question can be asked, I'm not saying it is, but maybe if it's the dead that we can determine, how many are the ones we can't establish. On the other hand, it's a misuse of data and it's a felony. I wonder if the ministry, whether the government, has filed criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator, because of the abuse of data, and because of the counterfeiting of these signatures. I think some kind of competent institution that deals with this should do it against the competent one, against the unknown perpetrator. And then the institutions of this country will, on official duty, go into some kind of investigation and some kind of action. And it has to be done so these things don't happen again. And in fact, it led to this in one clean thing that I think is personal, so these initiatives didn't collect enough signatures because of the lack of communication by the ministry, the minister was primarily made suspicious of the credibility of what they're saying and thus the citizens' trust in the state's institutions collapse and it's very dangerous and we can't do that. So if we don't trust the institutions of our country, the basics because some people who shouldn't trust it, then that's where the main state interests are threatened, and that's the responsibility of both those who do it and those who let them do it. And lastly, once again, I call for a new referendum law to be adopted as soon as possible, to settle these issues and problems, and I feel that such an important law that has proved to be really important in the last few years because, unfortunately, as a country, as a young democracy, unfortunately we still do not have a culture of referendum. So with us people in the referendum will vote in general and against some things that would not make sense to vote against. Here, let's say the Swiss had a referendum a few months ago asking if you wanted to get cheap utility services. And the citizens of Switzerland refused that because it was a quality campaign, because it explained what the cheaping means, how much it will be a blow to the quality of life they have and I'm not sure that in Croatia you want to be asked whether you want to reduce the price of municipal services or whether you want it to be free, in order for that referendum to pass, i.e. I'm sure that the citizens would say that they are for it to be reduced. And the fact that the whole of Croatia would look like the last few days of Zagreb if the bags were trash at every step, if the containers were overcrowded, here's what we'd think a little later. As a result, the new Law on Referendum should also be reached by an extra-party consensus, in which everyone should participate, should not be broken over the knee and should try to agree on it as much as possible and as much as possible. And I think we need to bring it back as soon as possible until we're hit by some new initiative. Anyway, there have been a lot of gaps and we should learn from all this so that these things don't happen to us in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128780	I thank my esteemed colleague, Sashi Djujic. We have a replica, dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128781	Dear counterpart Djujic, first of all, it's fantastic for me to listen to SDP support HDZ, go ahead, so that's that new direction, new path, colleague Maras, too, but there are a few things that I would, first of all, introduce them to this DORH, for example, you say obviously someone's been texting the signatures, you have obviously some information that no one has. So, here I am from this place from the highest home, so, the Croatian people, I call on DORH to question fellow Djujic to say what he knows, he obviously knows something, which no one knows. He says, still, the abuse of data, so you obviously have some data, please, step forward with that data to the public, contact the DORH, let the matter be resolved. As a matter of fact, I am sorry that the DORH did not act on the application of former HDZ President Mr Karamark, on the matter of your APIS, where the same thing was allegedly copied, correspondence, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128782	Thank you, dear colleague Sasa Djujic's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128783	Well, thank you very much. My colleague Zekanovic, unlike you, I've never been on the HDZ list, nor will I be, therefore, if it wasn't for that HDZ cooperation and you, you wouldn't be sitting here at all, it's for starters. So there's exactly who he was with and who followed the same policy, I never, so you're here unworthy. The second thing, everything you've said now, you're manipulating, which you've been manipulating all along around this topic. So, I said what the ministry's representatives say and what it says in the media, and if you listened to me very carefully, I clearly called on the government that if so much has been falsified to file criminal charges against an unknown perpetrator, so the minister tells us all the time that there are tens of thousands of people out there who aren't there, it means that someone has abused it and it's illegal there, and I just called the government to do it. And secondly, you must have slept the same night, so the man himself said about Karamark that [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] falsified, that he falsified text messages [[/Intruder: Thank you.]] He's in prison as long as I know who said the record, so when were you in the campaign? [[Intruder: colleague, colleague Đujic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128784	My colleague Đujic, I would ask you nicely, keep an eye on the timing and, in your statement, keep an eye on the demeaning of fellow MPs. Here you go, breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128785	I simply have to react, in 238, manipulated, slept, so I think that's enough arguments for the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I came out of the HDZ list because I am as credible as many of your colleagues who have left the SDP, and yet you are looking at your union and position, so no matter what the SDP is no longer what you would like, you will still be there to have your mandate, but that is also legitimate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128786	My colleague Zekanovic, there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure, I asked my colleague nicely to keep an eye on his words, so please. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Sanader, here you go. Excuse me, colleague Sanader, we have a further breach of the Rules of Procedure, dear colleague Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128787	So, he's injured. In 239, therefore, a colleague of Zekanovic, as you yourself have said, was clearly misused by the Rules of Procedure, Art. 238, but according to Art. 238, In 239, you have to give him a warning, if you don't give him a warning, then the man didn't break the Rules of Procedure, so I'm asking you to stick to it, and I'm 20 years in the SDP, and I'm only 7, in HS, so I was in the SDP and until I was a representative, and I didn't hear about you until you were on the HDZ list.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128788	I'd like to thank my colleague, Giujic. Thank you for this information you have given me, therefore, no injured Rules of Procedure, you, when you are sitting, will then judge and please do not abuse the Institute of Rules of Procedure. We're moving on to the next debate, dear colleague Ante Sanader, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128789	Thank you, Vice President. I welcome the secretary of state, all my colleagues and colleagues. Here, we have heard many interesting debates today, and I find it saddest and most dangerous here that we practically put a questionnaire before the institutions, we don't respect our Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure, whom we would trust, come on, let's take it from ourselves. So, in our Committee, it's no good, I don't know, I didn't have those ballots that we have right now to determine some of our committee here, inter-party, so we send him to do something, we don't trust him again, because if we don't trust the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, then I don't know who that means, we don't trust ourselves, we don't trust the Government, look, this isn't, this isn't, this isn't, this isn't, this isn't, this isn't the octrossed institutions, so now someone else has imposed, they have the legitimacy of the people, or it't, it's legal that the opposition is going to fight, to give their views and suggestions, but if the professor of constitutional law here says that the Constitutional Court has stopped being a constitutional court, which we send to our citizens to believe, what's next, we invite them to revolution, let the people go out, so let the people decide, because the street is someone who can bring a better solution. The minister is trying here, struggling, five times talking about the checklists being there, that one pressure from the enter can win them, and someone insists, no, that's not true. All the ballots are here, so at any moment you can get an extra commission, but I don't know how much you'd trust him, I'll go make a decision that we'll check it all out again. I think that without trust in institutions, as much as anyone likes them or doesn't like them, we question everything and that's the most dangerous thing for the system, it's the most dangerous thing for both our country and what's going to happen tomorrow. I simply think that the minister's position here, his firm conviction should be sufficient evidence, he has responsibility, he goes to the election tomorrow. Here too, a colleague said in his final speech, in the closing sentence he said, you know, so watch out for the fellow citizens and you, those who took your referendum, don't give them a vote tomorrow, so obviously there's a very interesting target group of these 400,000 or 350, it doesn't matter how many thousands of people who gave you the signatures, they're a very interesting target group, that here they're politically or falsely going towards them and they show up as their protectors. The referendum initiatives are good and it is practice worldwide, it is nothing new that Croatia has discovered. It's not nice to have double criteria here either. This is where Mr. Pedja comes in. Markićka's evil is bad and someone else is good. And that's her right, she's fighting just like every one of us here for her electoral body, but she didn't make it. Are your papers here, clear papers that didn't work, that there weren't enough votes and that's the most relevant? Are these referendum issues constitutional, not constitutional? That wasn't the subject of today's conversation. Today, the primary theme was whether there were enough votes or not enough votes. All institutions and the ministry and the commission and agencies have made it clear what number, how many people, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, how many, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, did, There aren't enough votes, and that's the most crucial thing we're talking about today. And that is why I think it should be appreciated that our Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, its position as well as the Ministry's position and the government's decision, and it is clear that this initiative has not collected a sufficient number of votes and there is no referendum. And now everything else is politics and everything else is saying an attempt from that target group to pick up as many of their voters as possible. Here's my conclusion from this general debate I heard here today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128790	I thank my esteemed colleague Anti Sanader. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128791	Thank you very much. Mr. Sanader, that's right, irresponsible statements, so I'm going to say that, all over again, this whole situation has further deepened and irresponsible statements and Minister Kusčević. He also said here today that the government was headed for the protection of the rights of 3 million and 300,000 citizens who did not sign this initiative and that the government was protecting their position as well. Their position would have been protected if a referendum had been called, that these people had then gone to the referendum and said if they didn't think and didn't think, so they didn't all have to sign which ones, for example. They agree with that. Some may not have even signed that agreement would probably have collected a sufficient number of signatures. But with such statements, the minister has contributed to this whole situation. And I agree, and I believe that not enough signatures have been collected. And those who call today to take good care of themselves twice before the ballot box against those who took his referendum voted twice for the government. So much for their credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128792	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. Come in, Mr. Sanader. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128793	Thank you, Vice President. And I don't know what you saw here disputed about what the minister said, the minister just said a part of the people voted for this referendum but a big, huge bigger one at over 3 million didn't vote and he just said that. He didn't say anything that could offend either these or those, he just found out the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128794	I thank my colleague Sanader for his reply. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear Kole Bojan Glavasevic, not present. Dear colleague Hrvoje Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128795	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. Here I am again in the same way, here's my fantastic listener, as the SDP goes hand in hand with Plenkovic and HDZ. He is trying to tear down the referendums, i.e. he represents views against the Istanbul Convention. And that's fantastic. I just need to get into the analysis here. Here is colleague Djujic and colleague Maras who are the only SDP present, in fact I, and pardon and colleague Bauk, have not seen you, so...... No, he listened to you very carefully, so I know that you are really against what I represent and that you are actually for the Istanbul Convention with a heart and longer, and it is you and it is credible, all honor and there is a story stopping. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] On the other hand, you are now defending Minister Kusčević who if he had been asked half a year ago he would have said please don't go to Plenkovic Andrej, please don't go to the ratification of Istanbul you know it to me my priest, my people, my people there in Nerežišče don't want it as well as to Ante Sanader as to other colleagues who are present here who are... However, it has happened now and now we have this HDZ fellow, so Plenkovic's team that defends it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So now they're defending it, they're against the referendum, they're for Istanbul, because right now they have to be and he's going to try to justify it and you're defending why you believe it. And here are all the honors of the SDPs, you're credible, they're who they are right now, but maybe that changes normally if Plenkovic goes away, some little more right-wing HDZ will come to power immediately that story will change. Here, for example. Vice-President Mr. Brkic comes as HDZ President, I am sure the matter is radically changing. And that means now the current situation and it's actually fantastic. But I'm going to say again what I've said a few times today, stressing that, this would have been, yes, it wasn't my plan. He would point out that indeed, counterpart Djujic and everyone else here from HDZ and Kuščević said that at one point those from Istanbul said they had 369, I have no idea now how many it was and at the second moment 379 thousand signatures. Well, my people are volunteers who don't have infrastructure. I'll tell the anecdote that happened relatively just a year ago, two days ago, five years after the first referendum that managed to change the Constitution, a referendum for the constitutional definition of marriage where it came to me in my Sibenik that I was the coordinator of one woman with two signed books and says I keep this saying what I'm going to do with them. So she took the books home and she asked me after five years what she was going to do with them. So the signatures were really slowly collected from all over Croatia, there are no infrastructures, so that's logical. And you really realize that it makes sense that it does. But I'll call you again, if you have information or anyone in this House or anywhere else that was against the law, then report it nicely to the DORH. And I call on the DORH to look at this session and see if anyone has any reasonable doubts, I'm the first one to regulate it, to understand each other. With 200, 200 dead, which is 0 whole, I don't know 0.2 or 0.3%, written on the list, and it's possible that whoever knows who, anyone from this SDP, HDZ or HRAST might have come and written it on purpose... Yes, yes, he wrote intently to blame the OIB or his late grandfather, yes, to discredit the referendum. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I agree that the referendum law needs to be changed, but not to be more restrictive, but to be more liberal. So that you, too, means that liberals have the opportunity to change laws, so why not the Constitution as well as everyone in Croatia. Don't look at the current constellation because yet you win the long term, look a little long-term, liberalize it, it'll do you good. Right now it may be a conservative scene, then, to our conservatives, but I think we're still losing this since HDZ as the biggest party has gone far to your side, so you'll soon be able to pass any law you want. I've heard a lot of things here, so I've heard from Mr. Sanader, says the target group that's being shot at here, the target group, that I'm actually here at 8.3 when I heard from the diameter that he wants to ratify the Istanbul Convention, announced in contact with volunteers we'll go to the referendum, that we'll go. And it's my target group, it's my people, volunteers, who work for 0 kuna, who want to make Croatia better, and it's my voting body, like HDZ's but also the SDP's voting body, those who got jobs in the state administration, who have... which have boards of directors, which actually depend on politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's the same legitimate thing, you have your own voting body, the people you've hired, you've secured, and someone has their own volunteers, who actually do something for ideals and fight along with them, fight along with them. You're telling me here, who do you trust? Really trust who? If you don't trust volunteers who did the job, that Croatia would be better, why should I trust the Committee on the Constitution that set up the Prime Minister Plenkovic, and he doesn't want Istanbul to fall, because he fell too, he doesn't want to change the electoral system, why would he. Now I have to read to you about the electoral system, this is interesting, today came to me with books, quite accidentally, elections and electoral system of Angelka Milardović, and right at the beginning says, it's not about Croatia, so don't get excited. Each circuit unit is given as many mandates as the population there has lived according to the last census. This is an Austrian law, of course not Croatian. We in Croatia have 10, 15% more voters than we have residents. Is that possible for my people? This was at the time of my respected, esteemed colleague, Bauk, and we have today, at the time of Minister Kuščević. So we have a situation where we have one huge disparity, 10% of the people are on the list more than de facto has. And then that's okay when the elections are, then they're all at a loss, right or at a win, as you look at it, but when it comes to a referendum, then those who run the referendum initiatives, they're at a loss. Instead of collecting 250,000 signatures, you must still collect 370 or 440, Comrade Bauk, if I am not mistaken in your time. And yet I wasn't the creator of a referendum on the electoral system, but here it is in this book, here I found today, it says like this, and I would suggest that a single constituency is a proportional principle of distribution. So not to be too long, because I don't have too much time, all other electoral systems, on the contrary, contain elements that no longer offer any less strongly incentives or pressure to improve the concentration of several parliamentary parties, i.e. to facilitate the creation of an absolute parliamentary majority of a single party. So this is what scientists wrote, so this isn't a report. So the only system that Croatia needs is Croatia's one electoral unit and a proportionate electoral system. So I'm going to say this electoral system, which is much better than the existing one, is not the best. But it doesn't even matter if I'm for that election system, whether I'm for Istanbul, whether you're Mr. Sanader for Istanbul, or you're Mr. Maras, it doesn't matter. It is important that the referendum take place. So I'll even say this, if we're gray legalists, if there's a clear will of the citizens, and there's, in the case of a referendum issue, only 0.8% of the votes are missing, and then you tell your premiere, I know it's not expected, but it would be nice, tell your premiere, come on, Andrei master, call a referendum, because it's looking for 370, 380 or 400,000 citizens, call it. So our fellow SDPs will vote for us, and we will defeat those Catholics who want to bring down the Istanbul Convention and change the electoral system. So you have a position, the SDP and HDZ would win these referendums here, because you know for a fact when there was a referendum on marriage that HDZ gave great support to the referendum and that's why it passed the marriage referendum, right, you're boasting about it. Well, now be the guy you still have SDP here and the HNS is here. And the bridge is undecided about Istanbul like everyone else, I'll say. And then at the end of what fellow Striker said, you have one marginal Catholic oak that's the only one on the other side, so I wouldn't be afraid. I wouldn't be afraid, I'd call him tomorrow if I were Plenkovic, and if I were you, I'd talk him into it, so let's see who's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128796	I thank my esteemed colleague Zekanovic, we have a replica of our esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128797	Thank you very much to my colleague Zekanovic, in this one of yours, perhaps by decibels of significant speech, but essentially not content, I wondered for a moment who the real Zekanovic was. Is it the real Zekanovic who roars against Plenkovic or is he the real Zekanovic who hugs Plenkovice? So there's a thumb up there, a hug, a little open shirt, the crayons are there, so summer was at that time and smiles speak more than a thousand words. So I don't have to say anything, these smiles, here, look at them well, this wouldn't even describe any romantic in the best possible way so I'm interested in who's the real Zekanovic, the one from the picture or the one that's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128798	Thank you, colleague Maras. Answer, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128799	So, like this, dear colleague Maras, you can be much more resourceful because you have the gift of it as well as a fellow bogeyman, I really sometimes take your hat off to your ingenuity and you react so well, but here you copy a fellow bush, he's been showing it already for a month. And there he is, too bad. But I will also answer what I have answered to him, unlike you, and to all those present, and to those who came out of this hall, so I am the only one, the only one who has given up the position of power. And now you remember someone else who left the government and who pulled their secretaries and gave up all the synergy because we didn't fit the Istanbul Convention. So if you say that with decibels, you say it with decibels because you think that's what you need to hear, it's not clear to you, and you can't understand that you will, but remember, I gave up power, I walked away from that man I raised my thumb to up there and I would do it again if I were in a position.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128800	I thank my colleague Zekanovic. Next replica, dear colleague Sanja Putica, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128801	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleague Zekanovic, I don't understand how anyone at all in this House after the recent events in Croatia that we don't say in Dalmatia and still in which city, dares to talk about the need for ratification of the Convention against Violence against Women. Understand that, it's simply not a political issue, it's a civilization issue. And I'm sorry to hear that you're not at peace with the fact that you've exhausted all the instruments on your subjects and I haven't heard you raise your voice against violence against women and that the remains of such savage and paleolitic behaviors that we still have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128802	Thank you. Answer, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128803	Dear colleagues, paleolithics or neolithics don't matter, I've always been and I'll be condemned to any violence or against women or perhaps the first one on women, not to go to that ranking now. But what we were saying while the Istanbul Convention was to be adopted and ratified in this House on April 11th, that there will be no reduction in violence against women and has not been reduced, and that is the point. So look at the statistics, there's been an increase in violence against women. So the Istanbul Convention, as we were saying, it was the HDZ flossula, not designed to prevent violence against women, and you and I know it very well, but it was designed to slowly introduce gender ideology in a quiet way, and we already have a lot of evidence about it, and we will have in due course, so violence against women has not been reduced but has increased and the Istanbul Convention is there.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128804	I thank my esteemed colleague, Zekanovic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128805	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, in the Living Wall we advocate direct democracy and as one of the key tools and direct democracy we see the referendum and on this side we think that the right to a referendum should be defended regardless of who is asking the question and what question is being asked. We think that the opinion of the people is much more quality than the opinion of the criminally concluded parliamentary majority where MPs are being blackmailed or bought, however you will, where they are forced to cheat voters and cheat, against the electoral will and against the pre-election contracts they have written, it is certainly better for the people to go to the referendum and give their opinion of such illegal behaviour than such a circus. As far as these concrete referendum initiatives are concerned, this whole process has been contaminated, non-transparent, the rest of the deep suspicions that, in fact, Minister Kuščević, at the orders of his mentor, Prime Minister Plenkovic, decided in advance that these referendums would not be held, and then, with procedural violence and any senseicals, they achieved that as signatures they were invalid, quite transparent, so these referendum initiatives handed over their signatures in June, it was supposed to be 6 months. that all these signatures were checked even though the signatures were collected for 15 days and then seven days were systematized and then it was like too long, why it took so long but the ministry didn't take long until it took him 6 months. to verify these same signatures even though it has a full wide infrastructure available. It is clear that HDZ has had the support of the SDP in this, and it is silent as we see it, it will now vote equally because the SDP does not respond to the referendums either. It is all a policy if we are to continue this policy honestly, it is one extended arm because even the EU does not respond to the referendums. And she can't come up with a referendum. And she obstructs the referendum whenever she can. You have, I don't know, millions of signatures have been collected for a referendum on water privatisation, or a ban on water privatisation, millions of signatures against the contract... , we saw the EU react to a referendum on Catalonia's independence where 93% of the citizens voted for independence and after that, the will was brought down by brutal police repression. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So basically the exterminator does nothing but do what his superiors do. The referendum should be accepted even when it comes to our private opinion. Here I am, for example, personally voting against entering the European Union, but citizens have chosen to join the European Union. And just because they gave that opinion in the referendum, it was kind of acceptable for me to live up to that decision and respect it as, as if, legally, whatever the public debate was quite unfair and pressured, and what could not have been heard by the other side, the fact that the referendum itself held, nevertheless, gave some legitimacy to that, in my opinion, the wrong decision. None, the HDZ and SDP colleagues here say, we are to settle the referendum issue, so give it, sort it out, but in the way that it is arranged in other civilized countries, let's say first of all, in European countries. In Switzerland to hold a referendum, only 50,000 signatures collected for three months are needed, and Switzerland has almost twice the population of Croatia. In Slovenia 40,000 signatures in 35 days, in Hungary 200,000 signatures in 120 days. So, even one country that individuals call ultra conservative, such as Hungary, has a far, far more liberal referendum law than Croatia. Look at all the votes in the referendums in European countries, let's say the Italians voted on nuclear energy, Lithuanians and Hungarians on the ban on foreign sales, Slovenians on the construction of the railway, voted many countries, for example on the Penal Code, here's what the Swiss are discussing, so listen a little, means about encouraging organic agriculture, about protecting animals, about throwing food, against GMOs, for more taxes on imports, watch out for what good referendum, oh, they entered into the Constitution mandatory maintenance of mountain hiking and cycling routes, watch the Constitution. They even discussed whether minarets were allowed to be built and women were allowed to wear burks. We could really call it not knowing how to interfere with human rights, minority rights or anything like that, but they voted on it, voted whether foreigners should move to Switzerland, be careful, voted on the definition of marriage as we did, voted on whether to buy fighter planes, so that referendum would be very welcome to us. They voted on the minimum wage, on the restriction of management salaries, on the Law on Health Care, on pedophilia and their penalties, voted on whether or not horns should be cut by cows. And you gentlemen of the HDZ said Switzerland should be our role model, your president said we'd be like Switzerland, so let's be like Switzerland. Let us have a democratic one, so it's not Switzerland just because it has banks, it's Switzerland and because it has some kind of developed civil society. You're saying you can't vote on election law in a referendum, so what's our Electoral Law? You all know that the Electoral Law is wrong, you know that the election units are misrepresented, you know that it's being manipulated by voters' lists, you know that in this House there are people who got 300 votes, and the people who got 80,000 are not in the Parliament. You have an HSLS case that won 90,000 votes in the election, and they didn't get an MP. We in the Living Wall, we advocate that the rules for a referendum are simplified as much as possible, means that the threshold is down to 2.5%, that the deadline for the signing is extended to 30 days, that the signatures can be collected anywhere, as at the time of the presidential or local elections, that you can sign at work, that you can sign at home anyway. Why not allow a referendum on the EUR, why not allow a referendum even on NATO or on real estate tax? It can be about ideological issues. And you know why you don't allow, gentlemen of the HDZ, the SDP and the European Commission? Because you fear your own people, you fear, because you know that the opinion of the people is contrary to your opinion. And that's what's bothering you. And that is why you are obstructing and obstructing all possible referendums that will ever be, and you have already obstructed them in this Croatia, at least a dozen. And the Labour Act, and the Law on Highways, I don't know what all the signatures were about, you've done everything you can to keep the referendums going, because you want all the decisions to be made by one narrow click, a dozen people in the Prime Minister's office who think they know everything and we, all the rest of the Croatian citizens are screwed, right? And in that sense, your Shakespeare guillotine, and your bonus representatives, and the forms you fill out for members where you violate all human rights and civil rights, where you ask that, not to speak to the police, nor to the judges, just because he is a member of the untouchable HDZ. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the HDZ, and gentlemen of the SDP, in this case, as in many others, you have proven yourself to be classic neocommunists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128806	Thank you. I thank my esteemed colleague, Bunjac. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128807	Thank you very much. Mr. Bunjac, I don't know why you've concluded that I'm an opponent and a referendum, that the SDP is an opponent of the referendum, because that's not the case. I am very prone to referendums, but this is not about this, specifically about voting on this decision is about implementing our laws now, it is about not agreeing with a few questions that have been raised that affect human rights and which is why I could not be against it and why, if HDZ votes too, you conclude that I am the same opponent of a referendum as HDZ. That is not true at all, I am also to reduce the number of confirmatory signatures for the referendum and to extend the deadline for collecting signatures for the referendum, so here I want to educate you not to say wrongly that I or SDP are against the referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128808	Thank you, comrade Bunjac's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128809	Thank you very much, Mr. Maras, you showed up for this debate an hour ago, but if you had been here all along, as I have seen, you would have seen a representative of the coat of arms and representative Glavak fighting each other, as they were taking advantage of each other, as they said they were actually agreeing about the referendum, even in some future law on referendum. I would, I would really like you to stand behind these words of yours in a way that's the party's position, if you'd really elaborated the party's position now, then you might as well get our support. And I don't think it's right for some opposition party to come so far to that party that destroys Croatia day and night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128810	Thank you, esteemed colleague Bunjac, for moving on to the next debate of the esteemed colleague Gordan Maras, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128811	Thankfully, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, when we talk about this topic and when we talk about the words and things spoken by some of our colleagues, it is very important to turn to the statements that the opposition or SDP is against the referencing of citizens, it is not at all true, I personally and as an advocate advocate to do so, I think that our referendum law is lacking and on the part of the number of necessary signatures, meaning it is an inappropriately high number of signatures of 400, over 400 000, 10% of the electoral body that we know is not realistic in the electoral lists, while some other countries may have a slightly larger number of signatures such as Italy, and a much larger number of inhabitants, I think that the Croatian law is not adequate and I call on the Government of the Republic and the minister to try to find a more appropriate law that would allow people to declare certain subjects, and I do not need to be able to do so in fact that there is a very much time, and therefore the need to do so in fact that the need of time, and therefore not be able to do more. So there are a whole series of things that could change, that could improve that would allow people's trust to return to the institution of the referendum in Croatia and, in some ways, have more referendums. Why would they be afraid to make public statements? But assuming that we settle exactly what questions cannot be consulted in a referendum because I think that issues as asked by colleagues in these several human rights initiatives, with certain things guaranteed by both our Constitution and should not be questioned in this way, there is no need to be part of the referendum issues. Because those who go to the lowest passions to collect a percent, 2 or 5 or 10 on, to, in the elections, I don't think in any way that institution should be abused. On the other hand, if we had done this before, it might have been less of a problem, but it is never too late to advance that part, which is why there would be few referendums in Croatia if citizens estimated it was really important. For me, it would be 5% of the electoral body, which is twice as much as it is now, it would be appropriate for this to take a month or even 2 months to make it easier for people to collect signatures and then have the opportunity to make a statement about it. Here I am sure that we have a fact where this topic is politically exploited because of certain votes on the right, there are very loud representatives here we have heard now, although honestly when you look at the Living Wall you no longer know whether it's the right hand, the left hand, or what it is, but they have certain views radically and diametrically opposite to each other so it's obvious that there is an attempt to gather which voice on topics that it shouldn't be the case, that this topic is arranged in the way that it should be arranged. Because it's impossible for us to have tens of thousands of invalid signatures in such a serious way, that we have several hundred dead people who are signed, that we have hundreds or thousands of minors or even children who can't write on the list, signed lists, and that's where no one asks the question. It is only proof that the law and the process are not arranged in the way they should be arranged. That it's amazing that someone after what they've been through has passed the deadline to collect signatures here we now hear the incredible claim from colleague Zekanovic that after five years his wife came with the lists to ask what to do with them, I don't know from which referendum but that someone 5 years collects lists, it's simply not convincing. And probably, that's probably how it was, and that's why there are so many invalid signatures, because of what's been waiting so long, and then people might sometimes resort to methods that aren't exactly the best, or that are affecting both the law and everything that's probably been going on. And then I think of it as a rather clumsy person in the whole situation, Minister Kuščević, who further complicates it, so here's what his colleague Djujic said that 3 million people or something didn't sign, and that they are automatically against the referendum and thus, with a lack of clumsy statements, actually additionally pours oil on the fire. And here you just need to say a few things. Number one, some questions are not for a referendum, number two, number two, the number two signatures are not collected and number three we are here to do this job in a way that is not whether someone is HDZ or some SDP or some third party, but simply that, to verify what happened. Because I personally don't support most of the questions because I don't think they're appropriate or that there should be no general referendum to be questioned, it's each other, another pair of sleeves. Some things about the electoral law this would even like to discuss because I think that in our country the electoral law is out of line, that it is impossible for us to have 15% more in one election unit than in the other election unit, I would like there to be direct democracy in a way that we have one electoral unit per MP, that we all know exactly who our representative is, to whom it is responsible and that in this way the citizens must answer, that he, that he must answer to the citizens but unfortunately I do not know if he has matured because it is not mentioned in general that the election law is possibly changing. What particularly bothers me in Croatia is also a local referendum that is even more complicated to carry out than a national referendum. So, in the national referendum, you have to collect 10% of the signatures and you don't have to have the price of going to the referendum, and at the local level you have to collect 20% and you have to have 50 plus 1 date to the referendum to be valid. So it's three times more complicated to carry out a local referendum than a state referendum that I said was very difficult to implement and we had relatively few in the Republic. To say, at a local level, you show dissatisfaction with something or do certain things, you need to animate 20% of the electoral body, and then you still need 50 plus 1 to end up with it. So what's evident is our law isn't good enough to propose a new one as soon as possible, but then again, Minister Kustević goes into this radicalization in a way that needs to collect everything in the offices of the state administration, to send people a message that will be even more difficult than it is now. Do you see how awkward it is when you communicate in this way and thus try to send a message that is not the most pathetic? So instead of sending the message, we don't mind saying you're giving Zekanovic and the like to call you that you're basically against citizens pleading. So, on this side, I'm asking you for a new law, as simple as possible, to remove the censorship that less signatures are needed and as soon as possible to transfer this work of control from the Ministry of Administration and public agencies such as APIS to the State Election Commission, which does so anyway as control in election processes, and when there are no electoral processes people have really long, long breaks when they don't have any major activity. So in between, now he's going to have two elections this year, the next one, and then the locals are going to have two years of breaks, so that on that side I think we should make a certain improvement to make our citizens more satisfied. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128812	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Next debate, dear colleague Arsen Bauk, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128813	I thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues for this debate today, probably many and many other debates are the consequences of in fact only certain scruples under the Constitution from 2000 to the last changes to the 2010 Constitution. So, a referendum based on 10% of voters in the Republic of Croatia introduced a coalition government in 2000 at the request of the HSP because they needed their 5 votes to bring the constitution. And the first HSP initiative after it entered the Constitution was to put out of force the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague Court. And a sufficient number of signatures were collected, and then the coalition government remembered that the law had not yet been passed, and then the referendum was called and then they were wise enough not to pass the law at all while they were parliamentary majority, and after that the law was passed. The second time that the Constitution and the article had been picked up in 2010 when a provision was abolished on how many people needed to come to the referendum for it to be valid. So then we came up with an absurd situation that the Constitution could change with 300 or 400 thousand signatures and somewhere 50,000 or theoretically 1 vote to be brought to the referendum. And that is why I think it is necessary to take the talks as soon as possible to address this matter properly in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and then we would be spared these toxic debates, because the referendum and the referendum initiatives when we sum up everything together are to the greatest extent that stimulates and increases tensions in society, and most often are about the backs of weak minority groups, whether they are national or whether they are weaker in terms of physical strength, whether they are sexual minorities. Therefore, the referendum is not the best way of democracy, because in the referendum, because there is no agreement in the referendum that some shade be lit up or darkened, but you have a choice black or white, yes or no, either you're in favour or you're against, or you're ours or you're ours, the others are gone. And that's why, periodically, every time a particular group wants to put pressure on the government, on any government, that's why we find ourselves in these situations every time. As for the concrete conclusion of the Constitution Committee, I will support such a conclusion, although it is in one way a conclusion which only made it clear that the initiatives did not collect the necessary number of signatures. So, according to what they have submitted, and according to what the Ministry, or the Government, has determined that, that the actual number of signatures, is not different from the usual practice so far, nor the method of checking, nor the criteria of regularity, nor the results that we have obtained. So it's about 7 to 10%, five, eight, no. What's only there doubtful is about the following, when you don't judge the penalty in 90 minutes if the result is 0:0, or 1:1, that's the problem, if it's 4:0 then it's not a problem, then it's constant. And that's this case. So they handed over the number of signatures that were borderline, and that's why every detail was looked at, and from the aspect of those who taught the signatures, they went like this, everything that wasn't defined in the Law, and we're interpreting liberally, and what's not defined in the Law, as far as the state is concerned, we're interpreting restrictively. Well, there's basically a little bit of state, this one, responsibility here, because then some things can be prescribed much more precisely. In that sense, the proposal for a referendum law which was discussed in 2015 in the first and proposed second reading would be a better solution, and a better regulation of this matter than it was now. On the other hand, the Ministry did everything they needed in the signature check, and maybe two things they shouldn't have done. First, I believe that because of a kind of social hygiene and a situation that could be assumed, it was in some way necessary to allow those who are signatories or initiators, but also those who are opponents of those who have initiated, or opponents of their idea, to in some way adequately observe the correctness of the signature in accordance with, uh, technical possibilities. And secondly, they shouldn't have done this with these signed lists, they just unnecessarily raised tensions. Although the Ministry... with criticism that it has recognised too little signatures, I think it is legitimate to refer to criticism, and that is also consistent with the conclusion of the seventh month Parliament to control and comply with the collection of Article 8, now I do not know exactly what letter, perhaps c, about the places of signing, because it is always in the referendum law, the Ministry is only in its own, the government has written in its report that, that it is not possible to determine whether they have been collected in accordance with the Law because the signed lists were not listed places, it writes in one part of the report, and these signatures can be from a legal point of view disputed and questionable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So maybe we're not talking about 370,000 legally collected signatures, but maybe just 10 of that number, or even much less. On the other hand, I believe that the representatives of the initiative are not responsible for double signatures and for all those signatures that were found on the signed lists, because they are objectively unable to control what people are writing. So it's not even possible to control the correct name and last name, is the OIB listed and so on, therefore, it's a kind of situation where they take a certain risk that they can't influence, and I think we can call them out for everything, but because of that, we don't really have to. So, it's in the state to find that so many valid signatures, whether that's enough or not, and these signatures that are invalid, should still be a little more careful in that organizer's criticism, because when someone stands in the square, come man and sign, they can't know whether he signed it yesterday in another city, they can't know it, there's no need to attack them. If someone signs the person they know died, it can also be someone who wants to, as they say, provoke an agent, so make a mistake just like that, to those who, who started the initiative. So, let me cut it short. The results of the signature check do not differ from the results so far. The way we check the signature, it doesn't bounce away from the way it's been done. And the Council's conclusion will not differ from what has been practiced in these cases so far. Anyone who is unsatisfactory with the Assembly's conclusion can open proceedings before the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court may order that the number of signatures be renumbered, and in that case the Parliament has to act on this, and as far as the Parliament is concerned, this should be a final matter on Friday, after what the Constitutional Court says, that is what we should do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128814	I thank my colleague, Bauku. Next debate, respected counterpart Boris Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128815	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the Ministry of Administration, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. We came just at the end of the day at the end of this debate, and I'd like to say a few thoughts about this issue, this subject we're discussing today. Democracy is a procedure, and the procedure, or role of the state, has begun when the organisational committees for these three initiatives submitted their signatures, which they collected with written arguments. The role of the state in this process full of holes is not very grateful, but it has been crystallized to date through practice, through earlier initiatives. What my colleague Bauk mentioned, when the possibility of people's decision through the referendum was installed in the Constitution, it was already clear at the time that the whole matter was underdeveloped, that the whole process had been underdeveloped, and unfortunately until the day of today it remained such and the responsibility of politics and we were in fact the greatest in it, especially when, for the sake of the country's entry into the EU, we deleted from the Constitution the threshold of decision-making 50% + 1, when we came to the solution that most of the people came out and when we actually opened the possibility, even theoretically, but still the possibility that the Constitution would change one voter. Now we don't even have a decision-making threshold, we don't even have a threshold, we're missing procedures, we're full of holes, the possibility of manipulation and abuse is great, and yet, here, we see through the debate that some of our colleagues are pushing these referendum initiatives hard despite these facts. I would ask them if they were there, which would be if tomorrow a referendum initiative appeared that doesn't correspond to their interests, which doesn't correspond to their worlds, which goes after them to reduce some of their rights, so that they can stand up, which they would then say. The referendum is a democratic tool, the most democratic tool possible when we give citizens, voters, to decide directly on a matter, but in this case we must set limits, we must put procedures everywhere, in all democratic countries. We can't, that's what my colleague Bauk said, I agree with that, we can't simulate complex social issues and bring them down to white and black, to ZA or against. It's not a secret, I'm personally against all three referendum initiatives and I don't want a referendum to be called on any of these issues. I read their written arguments, I don't agree with them, not only do I disagree with them, but I think they don't answer the reality, that they don't correspond to the campaigns that preceded or campaigns, when the signatures were collected, when, in particular, I mean the question that concerns the minorities most, which reduces the rights of minority representatives where minorities or representatives of national minorities are reduced to that political racketeeres and shameless merchants, that all their political activity is reduced to corrupt actions where they are actually shown to discriminate against the majority people, to discriminate against Croats and in propaganda materials the initiative literally stood to equalise the rights of all other representatives, therefore, Croats with minority rights which, etc., are privileged. This is the constant picture in the public that seeks to show that minorities in the Republic of Croatia are privileged on all issues, and so on employment even though we see from year to year according to government reports that the number of minorities in the state administration is falling and it is constantly, very little, but it is falling. So, the real need for reform of the electoral system, the real need for reform of the referendum decision, has been misused here to bring minority MPs and minorities, especially representatives of the Serb national minority, MPs, 3 representatives of the Serb national minority, to the Republic of Serbia as the main problem. Written explanations of the initiative, especially those relating to minorities, say nothing about it, nothing, they are in fact the professional written basis for the arson of the stakes on which minorities were to be burned, and this is not about any privileges, any privileges that the majority people gave to minorities, this is about an affirmative measure that allows all social groups to hear their voice, to hear their voice in the national parliament, there are many countries that have various affirmative measures that allow the representation of minorities in the national parliament and the Republic of Croatia is no exception. None of these affirmative measures are universal for all states, and today we forget what we committed to in 91 when we passed the first Constitutional Law that was governed by minority law, which would be in fact a constructive element of the recognition of the Republic of Croatia, where Barninger's commission recognized that the Republic of Croatia could be sovereign and independent, and that document was drawn up on the proposal of the Venice Commission although it is a bitter fact that this first Constitutional Law was not even applied. We have the process of entering the Republic of Croatia into the Council of Europe, we have worked very hard and we have sought to be part of this institution, we have ratified conventions that regulate and protect the rights of minorities and protect women's rights, and we have very much cared about being part of this institution, and today we forget about these obligations, or those that propose these initiatives, forget these obligations, as they forget the commitments that the Republic of Croatia has made by joining the EU. All those conventions that we ratified, they adopted, made the Republic of Croatia a better state, and these initiatives want to collapse. I'm going to say a few more things for the sake of truth and objective representation of facts because there's been a lot of manipulation and the number of voters, and the public has been hysterical, claiming to steal, to cheat, to manipulate themselves with the number of voters in the list of voters. Let's remember a few months ago there was a question of where 210 thousand voters were. This was also discussed by the Constitutional Committee, although it was clear, because there was a difference between the number published by the Ministry of Administration before the 2016 parliamentary elections and the number presented by the State Election Commission after the elections were held; that a little closer look at the State Election Commission's report would be seen as being about the voters of national minorities enrolled in the 12th constituency. But through the public it is shown that the voters were stolen, manipulated, that the state was cheating, that it was raising the threshold for the signing. What I would like to say in the end is that I am sorry that the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee does not go in the direction of the Constitutional Court to decide on this. I would like this to be decided by the Constitutional Court to conclude the issue in the Constitutional Court, although it would be a cry for theft and for citizens to be deprived of the right to referenda. Let's remember 5 years ago, the Croatian Parliament adopted an initiative to elect representatives by name and last name accepted the number of signatures that were then collected and handed it over to the Constitutional Court which found that the number of signatures collected was insufficient. And then the Constitutional Court concluded it themselves, and they claimed that the referendum had been stolen. I'm sorry it's then and now it's going to miss the opportunity to decide on the metrics, which is about the constitutionality of the issues that are certainly unconstitutional. So she wouldn't pass the constitutionality test. But unfortunately, the proposal for a conclusion does not go that way for the Constitutional Court to decide and I am sorry that this opportunity will be missed this time too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128816	I thank my esteemed colleague Milosevic. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. I thank another representative of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and representatives of the Government to the State Secretary of the Administration, Mrs. Josipi Rimac, for the reasons. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128817	Okay. Comrade Petrov, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128818	Your Honor, Mr. President. Please approve, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most, a vote on the agenda item on the proposal for a fair check of the number and credibility of the signatures collected for the 2 national referendums and to remove the same point from the vote because it is not mature to vote. The representatives of the Mosta have been trying for weeks to gain insight into the documentation to make sure that the government has reached out, professionally, competently and truthfully done a proper signature check. We didn't get a look at the paperwork. At the invitation of Minister Kuščević, we went even to the Ministry of Administration, to get an insight into the documentation there, we did not get an introduction, but we received an answer from State Secretary Josipa Rimac, who said that parliamentary representatives, had no first insight into the signatures, nor into the control signatures, without the consent of those 40,000 citizens whose signatures were declared invalid. After all, I can conclude that the Croatian Parliament has not done what it is obliged to do under the Constitution and the laws. It has not been established beyond any doubt how many signatures have been collected for these referendum initiatives. And that's why I'm asking you to remove this item from the agenda because it's not mature enough to vote. Parliamentary representatives, there can be no tails in this matter, no doubt whatsoever. This is about citizens, about their right, that they can directly decide, about their right, that they can decide independently, without a doubt, politics on issues that are important to them. So please get this point out of the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128819	You're looking for a break, aren't you? Okay. [[Intruder: Of course.]] Comrade Pernar, you've already had, your club has already searched or not, no, the Living Wall has been looking for a break already, so you can't, colleague Zekanovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128820	I'm sorry, I know I don't have a business opportunity to ask for a break, then just for 10 seconds, since the next item is the vote on Istanbul, I'll take the opportunity to give you this shirt, not for you, but for Prime Minister Plenkovic to have a memory of the Istanbul Convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128821	You can wear it yourself, it'll look nice on you. Thank you very much, I approve of the break, and my colleague, Vučetic, is still here. Comrade Vučetić, come in. There you go, you can do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128822	I ask you on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives to pause for 10 minutes to once again warn the public that there is a significant difference between MP politicians and voyeurs. Voyeri thinks they can enter the area of other people's privacy, into the area of personal data, that they can, that the position of parliamentary deputies is such that they can act as offenders who will violate the right to privacy, who will violate the right to democratic procedures. We are voting on the next item of the agenda, therefore, it is to determine whether the formal conditions have been met. The formal conditions are not met if the signatures are not a constitutional category to be guaranteed. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are those affected by the Constitution, those who have manipulated data, who have entered living, dead, inspired, inspired, in the electoral lists and lists, are not those who are on the side of democracy and democratic procedures. For this reason, on behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives, I ask you to grant a break to warn the public once again, and we also consider what democracy is, and what is a sinister will.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128823	Okay, is anyone else picking up? Comrade Furio Radin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128824	The National Minority Club is looking for a break to think about what Mr. Zekanovic wanted to say when he gave you that pointless shirt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128825	Ha, well, that's the reason. Comrade Batinić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128826	Thank you, Mr. President. The HNS Club is also looking for a break, just to warn all colleagues present here, as well as the Croatian public that we are voting today on the proposal for a conclusion of the Constitution Committee where we have established in the sittings that the conditions for calling the referendum are not met. Likewise, to draw attention to and inform those who may not have been informed, that last year, in October, we filed a criminal complaint against the unknown perpetrator, unfortunately, and it is about all these indisputables that occurred during the signing and counterfeiting of the signatures. I'm looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128827	My fellow Milosevic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128828	Thank you, Honorable President HS. On behalf of the SDSS Club, I am looking for a break, in order to reconsider all the circumstances and before we vote on this item, to make it clear that the signatures are not collected, that one who is dissatisfied can address the Agency for the Protection of Personal Data and seek legal interpretation of the position of the Ministry of Administration, I am only sorry that these questions will not go to the Constitutional Court because the constitutionality test would not have passed, because written explanations did not correspond to the reality and campaign in which these signatures were collected, but served as wood for the burning stake on which national minorities were to be burned.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128829	So, it's okay to take a break. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128830	Thank you very much, President. My fellow Milosevic, you have injured an officer. 238. where you said we were allowed to see the app, but also the documents of the checklists. No, the minister said we could come and take a look at the checklists, but he didn't give them to us, and we officially asked for them, the representatives of the MOST Club, which means this is a hoax of the people and that you support them on behalf of the SDSS Club Plenkovic's government and Kustevich's dictatorship, thank you very much. [[/Invader: Thank you, your time is up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128831	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague, Zekanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128832	In 238, too, counterparts Milosevic and counterpart Batinić were disdained, in fact, to make false statements about counterfeiting. Comrade Batinić, if you know anything, let the DORH examine you, so tell me who forged it, and as far as national minorities are concerned, I felt called because I volunteered, too, it is not about the right of national minorities because national minorities have much more rights in the Republic of Croatia than in any other country in the world.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128833	It's not even about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Here's my colleague Batinić, who, what are you looking for?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128834	Art. 238 Injury of the Rules of Procedure... [[Then raise the plate that's a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] Here, they're all colleagues and colleagues from the Most. [[/Speakers speak at the same time, you don't understand.]] I mean, okay, but I don't take this as an obstruction, because obviously there was more need for them. Namely, according to colleague Zekanovic. In 238, we filed criminal charges against the unknown perpetrator precisely for the very reason that all the well-intentioned ones who wanted to do so, by signing their wish and will and the right to vote against those who forged the signatures, apparently they did, their dignity. It's hurt. [[Intruder: Thank you, time is up...]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128835	there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure... I'm taking a break until 12 o'clock and 55 minutes, please be here. Interrupt session at 12.44 p.m. Dear colleagues and colleagues, please take your place, colleague Zekanovic, you can't get a breach of the Rules of Procedure now because nothing happened that you could get, you can't, I won't ask you, you can't. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 12.56 HOURS]] Proposal for a Conclusion on the report on the number and credibility of the voter's signature and the legality of the voter signing process and the request for a referendum to be called The National Initiatives shall decide on the amendment of Article 72. [[Intruder: The Honorable President of the Assembly something happened.]] The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. and the Civil Initiatives Truth about Istanbul. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and the debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Taking into account the report on the number and credibility of voter signatures carried out /Applause./ [[Intruder: Let's welcome the volunteers at the gallery. The truth about Istanbul and the People decides]] Well, here you are. Thank you for helping me. [[Intruder: It was usually to welcome guests in the assembly.]] So please don't interrupt me now. I'm voting on the next conclusion. Taking into account the report on the number and credibility of the voters' signatures and the legality of collecting voters' signatures and requests for a national referendum of the Citizens' Initiative, the People’s Committee decides to amend Article 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia for the opening of those national referendums. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the vote is 105 for, 2 abstentions and 16 votes against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary parent board. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, my colleague, here you go. [[Applause.]] Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128837	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia was injured, Article 87(3) and the Constitutional Law on the Constitutional Court of Article 95, under which the Croatian Parliament had to address the Constitutional Court and did not have the right to decide on its own that it would not question the state referendum and that there were no formal assumptions that we who voted against the proposed conclusion on behalf of the Club of Representatives of MOST will leave the session Considering that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has been violated. [[Agreement: OK, thank you time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128838	Okay, let's move on with the vote. Now it's time to propose a decision on, colleague Bauk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128839	In view of the Constitutional Court's decision, several decisions of the Constitutional Court where it has considered and the majority to which a decision, law or conclusion has been taken by the Assembly, please state in the minutes of the next meeting that this conclusion has been reached by the majority than is necessary to amend the Constitution or the Constitutional Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128840	It'll be in the record of what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128841	We move to the next item of the agenda - Proposal for a decision to declare February 22nd On the day of Croatian verbs and verbs is proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture on the basis of Article 159. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. I call on the representative of the proposer, president of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, respected colleague Vesna Bedekovic to give us an additional explanation of the proposal for a decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll be right back. So, by act of 20 December 2018, the President of the Croatian Parliament sent the Committee on Education, Science and Culture an initiative of the Institute of Croatian Language and Linguistics of Croatia to declare 22 February 2018 on the Day of Croatian Glagolitics, and the applicant for the initiative contributed a letter of support to the proposal for the announcement this day to the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Minister of Culture and Minister of Science and Education. The applicant of the initiative is bound by the date of publication of the first Croatian book Misal by the law of the Roman court of 1483, which is actually the first printed Croatian book, and also by the first Misal in Europe, which is not printed in Latin and Latin, and this Croatian incunabula has been printed in red and black, and should be emphasized only 28 years after the printing of the Gutenberg Bible and of course that Croatian first print is important and because it proves to us that in the 15th century the Croats have been highly developed in social, economic and cultural terms, and of course the Croatian verb is a historical Croatian letter and one of the inevitable symbols of Croatian national identity and several centuries of human origin, which we have a recognizable and unique identity both in Europe and the world. And of course the Committee discussed this initiative at its January 30th session this year. He believes it is indeed one commendable initiative aimed at promoting the value of the Croatian Glagolitic letter, which, of course, the Committee therefore, all members of the Committee unanimously supported. The debate also pointed out that the name of the decision to declare February 22nd The Day of the Croatian Glagolitic should be completed in a way that stands in the Decision: "The Day of Croatian Glagolitics and Glagolitics", which in a unique way would highlight the value of the Croatian angled verb as specific to our premises and, of course, additional and Croatian Glagolitic literacy as important definitions of identity and speciality of the Croatian people. And accordingly, we sent this proposal to the applicant of the initiative, which is the Institute of Croatian Language which adopted this proposal and therefore here is the Committee proposing that the Croatian Parliament make a decision on the declaration on February 22nd on the Day of Croatian Glagolitics and Glagolitics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128843	I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Committee, Ms. Vesna Bedekovic, for this explanation of the proposal for a decision. Would the Committee’s rapporteur perhaps want to take the floor for legislation? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected colleague Sanja Putica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128844	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed representatives and representatives of this commendable initiative, which is addressed to the President of the Croatian Parliament of the Croatian Language and Linguistics, as we have heard from my colleague Bedeković, I believe from Friday or from today and the entire assembly how important it is to mark and declare from now on this very day 22 of February on the day of Croatian Glagolitics and Glagolitics it is that we chose this date by accident, it is linked to one of the most important dates of Croatian history, Croatian culture, literature and literacy, the date of printing the first Croatian book of Misal by the law of the Roman court of 1483, which was the first Misal in Europe which was not printed in Latin and Latin. With this declaration, it is necessary once again to raise awareness of our rich medieval culture of the then civilization attainment of Croats, the degree of cultural development and in the finality of our national identity. Croatian literacy is generally marked by the verbic letter used in these spaces until the beginning of the 16th century, and a whole series of large Croatian epigraphic monuments, such as the Plominski sign, the Valun tablet, with the most prominent mention of the Baška tablet, which is now stored in the premises of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, are written with a verb. The beginning of the verb in Croatia is related to the march and missionary work of the two Konstantin brothers and Methods and their students who have spread verbism and worship in the old Slavic language, and the formation of the verb binds to the Croatian soil itself, the formation of the name verb connects to the Croatian soil, because the verb glagolitic means to speak. It is also to be said that it is believed that of the three famous types of verbs that have so far been known around and angled, and lately also triangular, on the Croatian soil there has been an angled verb, and that with this type of verb they have written also books for services, services in ancient Slavic language. Several theories discuss the existence of a verb but it always binds to verbs and their worship. In this sense, in future marking this day will remind the deep roots of Croatian culture and heritage in verbs and verbs as well as the fact that verbs and verbs are an extremely important part of Croatian identity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128845	I thank my esteemed colleague Sanja Putici. Dear colleague Marko Vučetic is not present. Dear colleague Arsen Bauk, on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, please welcome colleague Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128846	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, I must say that adding verbism to this proposal is a little questionable. My colleague Bedekovic, may I? So, I think that adding verbism to this proposal is small and questionable because verbism is a segment of Croatian culture dominated in the Middle Ages that make up a verbic and Cyrillic (bossanic) letter, all language forms written by these letters and hybrid versions created by the characteristic overlapping of the previous two language types. I will refer to the work of academics Stjepan Damjanović in the study Croatian medieval texts, three letters and three languages, printed by Matica Hrvatska, which says that Croatia's medieval culture was triplicate and trilingual because the texts were written in Latin, Glagolitic and Cyrillic. Latina is the oldest letter in Croatian spaces, but the oldest texts written in Croatian were made with a verb in the 10th century. As regards the texts written, so the verb and date that we have, as proposed by the motionor, been chosen for this day, is said of Misal, according to the 1483 Roman court law, but the fact is that there are older, older documents that can also be marked in some way, and for me personally, the Povali Charter as the oldest preserved document written with Croatian Cyrillic from December 1, 1250, so 180 years before this document, according to which we would mark the day. So, if we're talking about verbism, then we can't, verbs and verbs aren't synonyms, first time printed on a verb, but verbism includes something, something wider. So, as the name of this correction speaks it was created on the island of Brac, it was found in Povlja, and it was quite by chance because the observer noticed unusual signs on the object used by the housekeeper to fuel the fire on the hearth. She is the final document of the Benedictine monastery of St. John the Baptist in Povlja on the island of Brac and written on the parchment of the Croatian Cyrillic so-called On December 1st, 1250, the Bosnian girl is kept in the parish office in Puciscije na Brač, where she arrived with the archives of the Povaljski monastery that brought him to Pucisca as their new residence the last Povaljska monks of the 19th century. It is one of the oldest Croatian linguistic and cultural historical monuments that provides us with its scope and content indirectly with a number of interesting insights into the various aspects of life, space and times where it was created and, of course, it is an inevitable source of study of various humanistic sciences. So, adding verbism to the decision that it is now proposed is not quite, entirely correct. In that sense, we will still consult on the support of this proposal because of the priorities that are mentioned, because I personally think it is a document that I have cited something more important than this, but it may be a local patriotic only local patriotic orientation, but in any case, it is good to remind myself of the foundations and roots of our literacy, which means verbism, which is our letters, because if we already had a problem with Cyrillic a few years ago, it is good to remind ourselves that our ancestors did not have a problem with it almost what, 900 years ago, that we were celebrating it neatly and that if we are talking about historical facts and historical aspects, it is not all as simple as it seems, so whether it is 1400-and some or 1200, and let's say, it's a good question where, if not in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128847	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bauk. We move on to individual debates, respected counterpart Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128848	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a respected colleague and a colleague, perhaps at first I could say something to Mr. Bauku that there's no doubt, and then I could think of a Bashchan tablet that was a long, long time ago so it might be taken from that time but actually this first printed thought as such is actually from February 22nd and I think it's just. On this occasion, I welcome the initiative of the President of the Croatian Parliament and, in its explanation, he is talking about the first Croatian book of Misal by law as said by my colleague Putica, a Roman court from 1483, so some 20 years after Gutenberg's Bible. So it's the first Croatian printed book and that's why it's a significant date, but that's why there's also an important definition of the identity and speciality of the Croatian people. Well, here's just a few scientifically established data related to a verb from one of the top Glagolitic scientists, Professor Emeritus from Split, so I'll tell you how interesting and interesting it is. In fact, today’s believers when they talk about liturgy and worship do not know that it is before II. The Vatican Council concerning the Constitution of worship, which took place in '62. Until '65. Sir, actually the service started.../The speaker speaks Latin./... and in Pucist on Brač and ended up actually with.../The speaker speaks Latin./... so then mostly in Latin. Only in the rare parishes run by the popi verbs and they are here, we are talking about the peorative work of the Pope of Glagoliers, which were actually fratric parishes, the service was done in his own language. If the Croats could celebrate liturgy in their own language or from the oldest historical times, there was one such example in the Roman Church, the Church then recognised only two languages. Latin and Greek, others don't. So only in Croatia was the service performed on the verb. As the author of the verb here is already mentioned by the Thessaloniki monk Constantine who then took the monastic name Cyril and then it wasn't called Cyrillic after him but Cyrillic. The name of that verb called "glagoli" which means "talk" is what my colleague Putica said. The Croats usually tied it to the so-called. The Jeronim theory or its Vulgate after the translation of the Bible, and in 1861 Franjo Racki, in fact, solved all doubts about it. The oldest Croatian Glagolitic monuments are mentioned here Baška plate, whose effusion here in the Croatian Parliament of 1100 and little known and actually extremely valuable documents, are the Vienna leaves which are actually the oldest church-slave liturgic monument of the Croatian redistribution. This Croatian verb is most often in Istria, in the Kvarner coast, Dalmatia, and in its deep, deep hinterland, and there are actually the most beautiful manuscripts made, it would be a shame not to mention them tonight, and it is about the Croatian thought, it is about... The Gospel, of Misal Prince Novak, and of Vinodol, Vrbničko and Krčko code, as well as the statutes of various order, brotherhood and some stories and legends. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Glagolitica was delayed, this is very interesting, in use among Croats as early as the 19th century, in fact until that II. The Vatican Assembly when it's actually liturgy spoken in folk languages. It is interesting to know that then the student bishop J.J. Strossmayer and here mention Franjo Račka who was actually a Zagreb canon and lifetime secretary of JAZU worked hard with the Roman curia on the status and expansion of the Old Slavic liturgy, however then this Pope Pio IX. He didn't have a lot of understanding or, specifically, he didn't do anything about it, but it's important and it's important for him to point out, he'd like to keep it in writing, that it's on II. The Vatican Council actually served as a precedent for the introduction of living folk languages into Catholic liturgy by Roman ritual. In fact, this survival of the Glagolitic letter and the old Slavic liturgy over the centuries we need and we can thank the great mara and the love of the domestic pops of verbs. This is the moment, and that's why I've made a special report because I have to point it out and the Pope's verbs have stayed the longest in the area, in the Imot area, and they're very important, and one part of it then went to Brač and probably ended up in Pucisje with you, Mr. Bauk. But they were particularly active in this pastoral work, so in Zagvozdo as the strongest foothold and that whole part of Cista, Dobranja, Lovreč, so... in that part of the predator and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The great antiquity of the Zagreb parish gives itself the name Zagvozd, interesting is the first report by Bishop Bartol Kasic of 1626, who is just talking about these pies of verbs because he had to Pope Urban VII. In fact, the cardinals in charge of implementing the Tridential Council's decision to submit their report. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He also says that apart from the parish in his area, there are parishes that serve the brothers of St. Francis and speak the old Illyrian language, and at that time there are certain monuments and churches, especially churches in the Brelas of St. Stephen and St. Nicholas. There's a report from 1636, which tells the full data exactly on that one, in that area. The state and action of the Pope Glagolitics was extremely interesting during the Sea War of 15 years, and he was in the region of Dalmatia until, to the Aegean, and in this area the Popi Glagoliers had one extremely pastoral service, engaged in the caritative work and descripting of the population, especially in the Imot area, and what is interesting is that in those 300 years the rule of the Turks in the area, this is a very interesting data, thanks to these verbs in the area, only 110 families from the Imotsky area went to Islam, therefore, thanks to the Glagoliers. In 300 years, only 110 families. And after the Turkish-Mlettian demarcation, and throughout the entire 18th century, Zagvozd actually remains a devastation and a strong glagolitic foothold... priests extend pastoral service to all surrounding places, then extend Lopočić, Krstatice and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The last pop verb lived in a parish of St. Anne's in Poljice, his name was Don Peter Pralas, so I welcome this initiative by the President of the Parliament and all those who took part in it, because that, these honorable men and all those who dealt with the verb deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128849	I thank my esteemed colleague, Ante Babic. We have a replica, dear colleague Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128850	So that we do not have, as it is said, the horse for the race, so the Blaca Desert on Brač is a glagolitic desert, as regards the documents which are and monuments found, so, apart from the Povelica Charter mentioned, there is the Povelica threshold, then the subterfuge fragments of the 12th century, the Dragon cave between Bol and Murvica, and, of course, the regular desert of Blaca that we have already mentioned. So, even though it's midnight, it's clear that this topic deserves at least us who come from these parts to mention it further, to raise awareness of the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128851	Replication response, dear colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128852	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, Bauk, mentioned the Sea War as the seventh war between Turkey and the Mletska Republic, so the refugees of the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Dalmatia, and you cannot bypass the Imot area, fled across the sea. Their first island was Brač, and so they came to Pucisca, and to the desert of Blaca. I'm not saying, there were probably those from Brač who were doing it or maybe they were in certain lines like you said back then and on the island of Brač.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128853	I thank my esteemed colleague Babic for his reply. We've exhausted all the debates with this. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I would like to thank the presidents of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, dear colleague Vesna Bedekovic, for the explanation of the proposal for this decision. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue tomorrow morning at 9.30, item of the agenda, Proposal for a Council Selection Act and representatives of national minorities, first reading, P.Z. Number 557. Thank you very much and pleasantly for the rest of the evening. Session interrupted at 23.45 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-13-0.u128854	Proposal for a Decision declaring February 22nd on the Day of Croatian verbs and verbs, is submitted to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision to declare February 22nd on the Day of Croatian verbs and verbs. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of the 111 votes for and 1 abstentions have been made, in the text proposed by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Let's move on now with the work. The first point is: - Proposal for a Law on the Selection of Councils and Representatives of National Minorities, Provo read, P.Z. Number 557. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I would like to ask the proposer's representative to further explain the bill's proposal, with us the respected Darko Nekic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Administration, please.
