ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124842	I would like to thank the president of HS, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Sustainable Waste Management is the final text. To remind you, this Law fulfils the obligations of the EU pilot 92 55 of 2017 with regard to the transposition of Directive 21 of the 2006 European Parliament and of the Council on waste management, from industry, mineral extraction and in the amendment of Directive 35/2004 to be transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Croatia in these amendments to the Law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Since we had to change because of these EU pilots, then we also hit several institutes, the corrections of several institutes, which we thought were important at the moment to be corrected. So we coordinated, more precisely determined and simplified certain procedures in the waste management system in the section relating to the permits and certificates for waste management. Namely, the issue process is simplified, the obligation to supply unnecessary documentation is excluded. It is only necessary to be registered for that activity. Instead of the current Energy Users Evidence, the Evidence of Use is introduced which means that no waste management permit is issued for certain waste treatment, but only a certificate for enrolment with the Eyewitness. This specifically refers to composite and biogas plants. This Eyewitness is run by a competent authority in the county, thus simplifying the procedure for certain economic operators because instead of issuing a licence, it is entered in the Eyewitness, which is a simpler procedure. As regards the simplification of licences, the process for the recovery of existing waste dumps is simplified, instead of, instead of the applicable authorisation, only a building permit is required for the recovery. It is added to the definition of the product manufacturer and the natural person. We've had a legal person and craftsman so far, and now we're adding a definition of a natural person because we're going to include in the system of reverse packaging and OPG. Obligations regarding the determination of by-products shall be specified. In fact, we issue certificates for all products that are found to meet the conditions for product status, so it is no longer waste, but is now becoming goods. He admits to me the accounts of the Ministry of Agriculture for animal products to avoid double enrolment. More details shall be given to the responsibilities of inspection services and communal directorship in units of local self-government. Namely, Communal redistribution now has powers, the municipal directors have the authority to act now to the perpetrator who is delaying illegal waste because so far we have only had treatment with the owner of the property by the inspection. The communal directors have the power to write solutions on the removal of measures in their first exit, where they prescribe measures to remove waste illegally delayed, set for that period. In the second round, therefore, unless the measure is met, they have the authority of the indictment proposal. The inspection under the Waste Management Act is now a competent environmental inspection. It shall also determine the process of closing waste disposal in such a way that the minister, in the order of closure of the dump, decides to close the dump, and all in accordance with the dynamics document and the order of closure of the waste disposal, then the obligation to take waste into the relevant landfills from the area in which the landfill is closed and the obligation to apply the same price to all public service providers that put off mixed municipal waste at the same landfill. It is also prescribed to hand waste to the CGO in such a way that the same price of processing of mixed municipal waste must be applied... for all public service providers who are required to teach mixed municipal waste in certain CGOs. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it is important here to say that the same conditions are for local self-government units belonging to one CGO and the implementation decision, the PGO defines an area that includes future CGO. A financial guarantee shall also be prescribed as an instrument which must have a person authorised to manage waste and which will be used by the competent authority in the case of a period of time of authorisation with which the means provided for in this Regulation are necessary for the collection, transport, storage and processing of the amount of waste from the licence. So far, we've had an insurance policy with an elaborate, but she's been unaccountable, so she's been undefined, and now this is going to be some kind of financial guarantee, which the company, which has a waste management license, has to provide with that financial guarantee, must have the damage insurance that happens when it stops working on that company. We've had such cases that then the whole concern about the completion of this job belongs to the state, so it has to be handled through a third party which is a very complicated procedure. The local self-government unit in which the waste disposal site is located shall be determined to have the right to cash compensation for the use of the waste disposal paid by the local self-government unit using the disposal site of another local self-government unit. So here's the height that's so-called. the environmental rent, that amount determines, the amount of compensation is determined by the unit of local self-government on its bodies, the ministry will lay down the criteria for determining the highest prices and units of local self-government on its bodies here to decide that in what proportion they will charge or not to charge the eco-income. It charges JLS for the benefit of JLS and then mainly non-purpose funds are used to raise some type of unit standards, citizens of the local self-government unit receiving foreign waste to its disposal. This was, therefore, the concept of amending the law, in the meantime between the first and the second readings, certain observations of the Committee on Law and thus changed Articles 6, 19, 66, 79 and 93 in a no-technical way. The national authorities, the national authorities of the objection, had the Ministry of Administration in the process of amending the licence, so they changed, corrected Article 39, which, instead of the time limit of the audit, establishes the period until when the verification of the circumstances affecting the exercise of the rights granted by authorisation was carried out. We have corrected Article 47, which, instead of the process of reviewing the authorisation, prescribes a procedure for verifying the circumstances affecting the exercise of the rights of the licences granted. We have also amended Article 68, which coordinates the content of the register of waste management activities with those amendments. We have also changed articles relating to the newly created State Inspectorate, as the inspection passes into that new institution. According to the foreign ministry's request, Article 2 has been completed in such a way that the EU rules for which the law on sustainable waste management does not establish a legal framework for the implementation of those rules have been deleted. We also respected the comments and the Ministry of Economy, the Mining Sector, and we changed Articles 2, 27, 44, 36, 51 and 66. And we have observed the comments of the Ministry of Administration concerning administrative procedures for enrolment in eyewitnesses, so we have only changed Article 5 which regulates the entry into the register of by-products, Article 6 is arranged to register the withdrawal of the status of the waste, Article 52, which regulates the supervision of the keeping of the eyewitnesses, Article 59, which is adapted to the provisions, given that the procedures which are to be decided on the application for registration in the register are now regulated as administrative, administrative procedure. At the same time, we have also changed Article 10 relating to uncoordinated landfills because there is no longer the possibility of disposal of waste in uncoordinated landfills in 2018. At the request of the Ministry of Justice, we have amended Article 8 and Article 14 which obliges the executive body of the local self-government unit to submit an annual report on the implementation of the waste management plan to the regional (regional) unit of self-government. And we were changing for nomotechnical reasons article 80, where 84 became 84, 84. We have also received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Croatia which become an integral part of this law, which is related to the moment of application of this law where the amendment of the Government has been told that this law enters into force 8 days from the day of its publication in the National Journal or amendment to Article 77 which reads: “When the exercise of inspection supervision determines that the supervised person does not comply with the conditions laid down in the permit for the management of the waste of the provisions of this law or regulations adopted under this law, which can cause a serious or direct danger to the lives and health of people or criminal pollution of the environment, the inspector proposes to the Ministry or the competent administrative authority to abolish the authorisation.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124843	Thank you we have 11 replicas, first fellow Glasnović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124844	Dear colleague, we listen here every day to this very detailed analysis and in this forest of laws I am interested in how long will Croatia apply local self-government to this most modern method of removing waste, for example. This one in Knin County, that must be a positive shift. How long has this strategy been planned? And the other two keywords would separate from your exposure, that's inspection services. We see half an hour from Zagreb, 20 minutes of driving you see looks like a corner on the Sava, dumps, what inspection services do, in Split we have hundreds of burned containers, we have residential buildings in the center of Zagreb that look like that favela in Rio de Jainere is unsolved property legal relations and I can't understand why there's still no paper plastic in there, etc. It doesn't work in the center of Zagreb, it can be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124845	Would you like an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124846	I thank you, dear colleague Glasnović, so you have apostrophe of the problem of municipal services, for this very reason we have introduced the Institute of Community Directors and Communal Orders in the units of local self-government. It is precisely for the reason that operating on the ground that people who in the local self-government system have solved these black spots called wild dumps, and we have done so in a way that we have given communal directors the authority to treat the perpetrators directly, so the captured perpetrators of illegal or illegal waste disposal. While you've had a situation to deal with it in a way that the inspection after someone's application went out and punished the property owner who didn't have to be responsible for the dump that was found on his property. So we thought this was more logical, that it was fairer and that it was a more effective solution than it was so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124847	Thank you. Comrade Dark-Taritash, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124848	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. So we have been witnessing lately and one fact which is a certain dissatisfaction which is absolutely reasonable and is based on the fact that in certain units local self-government waste is being driven more rarely and the cost of waste is significantly higher. We already have examples from some other cities and we can see great announcements in the newspaper, and the minister referred when it comes to the city of Zagreb. So there shouldn't be a very big expert here and it should be seen that the cans are packed without the waste being driven and the prices are going to be getting bigger and bigger. Part of it can be regulated by law, part of it regulated by the regulation. But it would be good for you to hear it because this is an opportunity which is happening here and what is the role of the state, or the ministry, that our citizens are not anymore, paying more and getting less.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124849	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124850	I'd like to thank you, Your Honor. So I can only answer here that the pricer forms local self-government, so the pricer when it is formed must also maintain all elements of the actual cost of waste management in that local self-government, or mayor, or the mayor of the municipality must confirm it. So the waste management policy in local self-government defines local self-government on its bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124851	Third replica, dear fellow Bull, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124852	Thank you very much. These amendments will cost more, waste disposal will be paid by citizens, that is, the fact. And for more reason, first of all, you'll be the waste management centres working hugely, like Mariscina. This will also be the case in Dalmatinska Zagora in Lečevica where you will endanger our rivers that are drinkable Cetina, Krka, where a million people depend without any problem. Instead of being separated in small waste varieties, making money and making our citizens less paid, having more employees. This way you do damage ecologically to the Republic of Croatia by this law. I would ask you to withdraw this law and protect the environmental, environmental and cleanness of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124853	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124854	Thank you, dear fellow Bull. So we can't withdraw this law, we're correcting it now. Otherwise, it is in preparation under European directives for the new Management Act and we have already begun to do it but it is therefore not a topic. Management centres are part of the strategy, part of the management plan that is in place and that we must respect. We are aware that the separation on the doorstep is as the first separation, the first degree of separation is the most important thing, so we are now going to these calls to get the container. We paid for education to educate people as much as possible about the need exactly what you said was separation in each segment. We are aware that sorters are an inevitable segment of separation and creation of recycled quality material. And that's why we went now in preparation for the call, a statement of interest has shown that there's an interest in sorters. We are now going to a public debate over the elements of the call for sorters and he will probably be very soon in circulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124855	Comrade Dobrović, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124856	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. Secretary of State, so, yes, here you are saying you asked for a statement of interest in sorters. Namely, your false approach is visible, so there is no showing interest, we are tasked with transforming the waste management system into circular waste management. You can't do that without those inescapable parts like the sortery. So you're wasting your time on the wrong things. You need to organize a system of procurement through European money, insurance elements for stopping cheap delays and ensure faster conversion of circular waste management. Tell us where the law contains a provision that will increase the degree, i.e. the delay record by weigh. So the scale is the only thing that's metric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124857	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124858	I thank you, Reverend Dobrović. So we've talked to local self-government units about the sortery. So it's not important for us to formally finance them and build them somewhere as building facilities unless they in these local self-governments achieve a full function. So we're talking about why the procedure is a little bit slower because we want these sorters with these capacities that are now defined at e-consumption, etc., to really be functional, not only to do so so that we can say that we have made a number of varieties without them having cost-effectiveness, primarily economic cost-effectiveness, sustainability and that they are not functional.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124859	Now it's time for a respected colleague named Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124860	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Secretary of State Horvat, I am pleased that you have improved this part from first reading in waste management and disposal, that no longer requires a useful permit, or that only a building permit is allowed which is good and more expedient than before. However, with the communal directors who will now be able to treat not only the owner but also the perpetrator, you have partly responded, and I am pleased with that part of my fellow Glasnović, but I think that given the new powers of the municipal directors, we have given them certain powers, in fact their knowledge must be expanded regarding the adoption of such solutions. It would be good for the ministry to actually act and that there are certain unified solutions related to municipal directors so that they can treat the perpetrators as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124861	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124862	So I thank you for supporting these changes, so the communal directors are the new institute, we'll see how it works, but definitely the idea is that the powers to treat people who are illegally postponing waste are solved in this first degree by people who know local self-government, who know people, who are mobile, who are closer to events, and of course they need to provide evidence in this process. So if we're going to go at the end of some proposal accused, then you have to have the quality of how to secure it, it's going to have local self-government to engage, or to have some kind of projection of how they're going to act on the ground by those communal directors and making their work effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124863	Thank you. Comrade Dobrović, let me tell you, so a colleague of Maras has already announced himself after a break replica, if it's okay to wait for the replicas to end, then he can. Thank you. Comrade Demetlik, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124864	I'm stalling, Mr. President. State Secretary, paragraph 5 of Article 14 has imposed the same price of mixed waste on all communals, i.e. for public service providers. Did you make sure that units of local self-government participated in the construction of the center i.e. co-financing through credit and now you have examples, I will say Umag, which has come out of the agreement and compared to 40 units of local self-government that pay the loan neatly, to have the same price as all units of local self-government that have assumed the obligation to repay the loan. I think it's an irregularity and to leave it to the local self-government units who have not accepted the agreement and co-financing of the centre to have a different price than the other communals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124865	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124866	Dear colleague, thank you. So the logic is that the centre must cover a particular area with its work and the logic is that in this area local self-government or local self-government units have the same price treatment as in the end we have communicated with local self-governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124867	Now it's all yours, Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124868	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Assistant Minister Horvat, here in the previous line of colleagues, Babić has been touched on this topic, namely, I have prepared an amendment to Article 20, which is referred to in Article 36 of the Law. The intensity is good, and since you're a lawyer, I think we'll find some language in common. ... That amendment, I'll explain it in my debate later on on behalf of the club, now I can only say in principle, always what's going on here in a series of laws that we've passed, so if we could pass a law that the local self-government units should buy aircraft that they'll, for example. Recording the terrain from the air, if someone asked who would operate those aircraft, someone would probably come up with a plan and say so to the communal directors. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So they're given more and more tasks in power, and in this sense it's only questionable when you say they need to find someone, it's not a good solution, let them collect evidence, let them have them and you'll see in this amendment that that's how you define it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124869	Thank you. Answer, please. You don't want to, okay? Then let's move on, colleague Kirin, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124870	Dear President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State. Recovering numerous waste dumps is ongoing. There's still a lot of wild dumps, but the volume of waste is getting bigger, the dumps are getting bigger. What you think about burner plants, waste burning plants would significantly reduce and slow down the increase in waste volume that must be put off especially because the energy plants would use waste as energy sources and be heat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124871	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124872	I thank you, Your Honor. So this question of yours is, of course, well, interestingly, it requires a more extensive discussion. So we can't answer now in a minute, but we are definitely aware of the dimensions of this problem and we are doing an analysis of energy recovery and we are doing some documents in the ministry that need to show what needs and possibilities of the energy recovery of the Republic of Croatia in the coming period. When that's over, it'll be public insight and we'll be able to give everyone our opinion but it's definitely a subject that needs to be discussed seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124873	Comrade Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124874	Thank you very much. Col. Horvat, what I would warn you and ask you and what law should regulate is transparency and pricing and price increases in local self-government units because we have an amazing case in the city of Zagreb that citizens are not at all familiar with how it is formed, they get messages through the media and now the city administration wants to increase the price for a four-member family in 30 squares from 25 kuna to 100. They want 1000 kuna to be taken to our families in the city of Zagreb living in the most modest conditions and at the same time we have witnessed hundreds of illegal dumps throughout the city of Zagreb. So I ask you to influence as secretary of state in the management of the city of Zagreb to be more transparent and to do your job better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124875	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124876	Thank you. Dear colleague Maras, I am not sure that I, as Secretary of State, can influence local and regional self-government in the way you said it, but definitely we have adopted a regulation that has prescribed obligations, ways, showing prices for local self-government units and for the city of Zagreb, it is important that this price must be realistically all the costs of waste management and local self-government. And, of course, the way it has to be available as information to the citizens is prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124877	Now it's my friend Zmajlović's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124878	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. This is, in fact, the 2013 law which, by these amendments, is significantly improved in certain parts, so, after 5 years of application, and that should be supported. But what's very bad here and what doesn't contribute to what you've mentioned about this transparency, the price for waste management services, is the introduction and refund of the fees for the use of landfills. Now, that's one of the biggest problems with these changes because it ruins the whole concept of transparency of public service price where units of local self-government will again, for reasons that you failed to explain here, to charge other units of local self-government the use of a dump, which destroys the entire system and concept. public service prices [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The collection of municipal waste. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124879	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124880	I thank you, Your Honor. So this is the 2013 law, and we now felt that we needed to make some adjustments in that law. Among other things, we've prescribed a deposit fee for dumps in the second unit of local self-government. I'll just say the data here, we at this point of 556 units of local self-government have a situation that 436 uses a dump in the second unit of local self-government, means in the space of another unit, so, not on itself. When we close, and they have to close these 29 that are absolutely unsettled dumps, that's what's increasing. So we felt that, in some ways, through green rent, it was correct that citizens of local self-government who receive other people's waste have certain benefits. And we've prescribed that that's one-third of the price of some average waste collection price. So that's something that JLS which delays in the space of the second JLS sea [[Intruder: Thank you.]] pay for these funds to promise the standard of these citizens and to feel them for what [[Intruder: Thank you.]] [[Thanks, Horvat, thank you, it's been a while. /]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124881	And finally, Comrade Kovac, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124882	I thank the president of HS. Well, here I am also interested as mayor, which is why you are in a number of articles, many things have become the obligations of the executive body, not the unit of local self-government, they are yours. 8, Art. 19th, Art. 22. where penalties are prescribed, not for local self-government units, but for executive bodies, i.e. Mayors and commissioners. What is it about knowing that we have our own companies and bodies doing this? I'm also interested further, you can't, as you mentioned earlier. 14th price form the same for everyone because someone drives from miles of waste, someone drives from 50 km, is not the same then the price of waste, drives from one km away and 50 km away, there should already be a price reduction, and what you said earlier that cities and municipalities have raised prices. That's not true, we had to raise prices because there was an increase due to compliance with the Community Waste Management Regulation which The Parliament brought it, and we should have brought it together by the end of the year. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124883	Thank you. Here's your answer. There's no answer. So we came to an end with the replicas, and now I'd like to ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. The chairman of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, colleague Ivan Vilibor Sincic, reports. And, excuse me, colleague Sincic, I'm sorry, we had a request for a break. My mistake, my colleague Maras first called.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124884	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, we're looking for a break in waste disposal, and I have to say that I'm particularly sad that there's not a single representative of Mayor Milan Bandic's club again, either, or yesterday, when we talked about a similar subject, or a flyer, or these fixers from the beginning, there's no one here, excuse me, now I've seen Mr. Keatazi, but maybe I didn't mention him, now he might be a little uncomfortable. Yes, Mr. Kajtazi is here, but most of them yesterday were nobody, and here they are today, just Mr. Kajtazi. When we talk about the subject that is crucial for the city of Zagreb, where we see in the area of the city of Zagreb nothing illegal dumps, I was personally on Strugam in Pesčenica this week in Zagreb where a man explained to me how there was a construction waste on private land that could be put off hundreds of trucks, an entire hill broke up, but the communal directors, Mr. Secretary of State, didn't see it. I'm taking the opportunity here to look for you personally, and I'm going to ask a representative question about what you're doing about it? Here I give you the location, 3. Strugs. Do surveillance. There are two hills where there's a waste dump where residents of the smell can't live. Please don't forget. 3. Strugs, Sandstones. You can't pee, there's two hills in there. I ask you to send an inspection, to see what is done and to finally begin to lead in the city of Zagreb on the quality of our fellow citizens' lives and to start implementing laws. And not only are prices charged 3 times higher than they have been so far that our 4-member families in 30 squares have to pay monthly instead of 25, 100 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124885	He's a colleague of Dobrović's. It's okay to take a break, of course, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124886	I'm looking for a break also on behalf of the Independent Lists Club. In fact, we need to consult on this law. It brings certain changes that are really cosmetics, and the municipal waste management system in the Republic of Croatia is in an unspeakable situation where emergency measures are sought. So that would be compared to being on a ship that does, and we're dealing with replacing light bulbs or repairing fences. So, this law does not foresee any of what would be necessary, which is to discourage local self-government units from delaying them from making them access systemically in a separate collection system and thus avoid this collection that has already taken place in many units of local self-government, such as Rijeka and others, and as we know, here, in Zagreb there is an announcement of a collection of more than 3 times more than 200, so it will increase twice the price. This all points out that citizens will inevitably be exposed to a new municipal cost, which in a few years will grow to nearly a billion kuna per year. So, the new billion kuna per year of municipal cost, because of municipal waste, instead of being raw material, because we have 200-300 thousand tons of paper and cardboard here, we have just as much plastic and other materials, which can be converted to raw materials and returned to the economic system. So, it's our obligation, we wrote it down in the 2013 law and in the access contract, I really don't know why we're going this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124887	He approves of a break. Now it's time for you and your esteemed colleague, Mr. Taritash, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124888	Thank you very much President of the Croatian Parliament, please pause for 10 minutes on behalf of the GLSA Club and HSU, the topic is of course, this law that is before us. The law was in the first reading and in the first reading I well remember talking about a series of topics, it came to a second reading. But things happen kind of, by the law, pretty fast. There are fast-tracking facts, i.e., situations where we really see that a lot of local self-government units, have increased the cost of waste that our citizens really, indeed, are alarming and speaking about the situation that is, that this law is, in relation to that or the proposal that we have, we can't say in that part that is very correct, but it's a chamomile. And things started to happen really fast. Of course when it is in the City of Zagreb, then there are bright stage on the City of Zagreb. Only when you get to this assembly, look, when you walk, full of buckets. So the city of Zagreb is less often driven to waste. Look at the green islands. If you want to leave a pair somewhere you have to go, at least 2-3 green islands that you don't want to throw along. And these are the facts we face. There is another part of the law, i.e. the relationship between the county and between the cities. We had a thematic committee session a month and a half ago, where there were all 11 waste management centres, they had the possibility in 5 minutes to say, or to explain what was going on with the tan, given the obligations of the Republic of Croatia, they explained what was the situation and what we could conclude, which is that the situation is not good. And in that sense, I want to do the debate once again at the club, so that we can speak articulately from this pay phone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124889	Thank you. A colleague, Boris, also called on behalf of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124890	Thank you very much. Dear President and I am looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club, since we have submitted several amendments to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Management of Waste, to explain to our colleagues at the club what this is about, but also to try to see if there are business opportunities, that somehow, a fellow MP, Mr Maras, is appointed as a parliamentary deputy in the town hall, in order to finally free this House from the topic to be discussed by the City of Zagreb City Assembly, because it keeps repeating it from day to day. And there's a lot of us here from the local level, which we also have some problems in the councils and in the municipalities and cities, and we don't do the same, and we don't care about doing it in the assembly room. So I think we need to see how this could happen, just to finally solve this situation more, where something abnormal is really happening, that we have to listen to Mr. Maras' relations with Mr. Bandic daily and we want to help him finally get to his mentor, who probably joined him in the SDP and that he solves the problems of the City of Zagreb there, if you agree. Here's what I'm looking for in that look and this break.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124891	A fellow Maras injured the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124892	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In 238, my colleague Boris personally called me Deputy. It's inappropriate and I know that HDZ has a lot of anxiety, including physical attacks these days, but it doesn't have to go on like that. And on the other hand, he should call a break on the subject. It's not the theme of Gordan Maras, it's the transport of waste. So I have to warn you that we shouldn't grant him a break and we should give him a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124893	So, colleague Maras, colleague Boric, at the beginning, asked for a break, for consultations on amendments, which the HDZ Representatives Club submitted, I don't know you noticed, because you were talking to your colleague Kovac then, so you didn't listen to that part until you heard your last name. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, but since you've been solidly argued and I won't give you a warning. Now it's 10.11 so we move on at 25. 10:11 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:32 A.M.]] It is now up to counterpart Ivan Vilibor Sinčić, who will speak on behalf of the Committee on Environment and Nature Protection, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124895	Thank you, Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, I will present the report of the Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection of HS, which met yesterday and discussed this topic as a parent committee. In addition to all that was said by the proposer's representative, there was a debate. After the opening argument, the debate was conducted on the Art. 22 which adds a provision to the City of Zagreb, a unit of local self-government, in which the waste dump is located, have the right to cash compensation for the use of waste disposal. The payer of that fee is a unit of local self-government which therefore uses the disposal of the waste of another unit of local self-government by prescribing the criteria and means of determining the amount, compensation, method of payment and payment of compensation by the Minister. The question has been raised why local self-government units should not be allowed to accumulate the necessary funds through the cost of waste disposal in their area. A clarification has been requested within which period a new Regulation will be adopted and which provisions will provide for it. In particular, in the context of the possibility given by units of local self-government by a valid Regulation. So there was this conflict at the debate between the new and the old regulations. The proposing representatives stressed that the Ministry of Protection, the environment and energy recognise the importance of its adoption as soon as possible, and that it is the same in the design, and until it is made, it is valid in force. That Regulation will allow the City of Zagreb or the units of local self-government to free others, in general, neighbouring units of local self-government from paying compensation, and to regulate mutual relations, as regulated by the Regulation on standards, procedure and method of determining the amount of compensation to property owners of local self-government units from 2012. Furthermore, the debate also highlights the importance of introducing a disposal fee for so-called waste. lendfieldtex. It has been pointed out that waste disposal is now cheap, extremely cheap, resulting in some units of local self-government doing nothing at the establishment of a waste management system, but only waiting for the construction of a CGO. The emphasis in the debate is also given to the problem of taking care of plastics. It is pointed out that the management of plastics on the market must be paid on the market, which burdens the price of plastic disposal, which is ultimately borne by the final customer. It has been warned that this way of handling plastics will result in overcrowding of individual recycling courtyards or those buying plastics. In this regard, the question has been raised whether a solution to the state-level problem is sought, therefore, in one overall sense. The proposer's representative pointed out that this is a matter of the market and that the country is not preparing any solution. From the point of view of improving the market for certain categories of waste, it stressed the necessity of modernising the stock market, since the existing model is dysfunctional or not functioning. Also related to plastic management, it is further pointed out in the debate that there is no plastic industry in the Republic of Croatia, and that it should be developed. It was also warned that the Croatian packaging system is not functioning because everything collected through the compensation for the functioning of the system, covering the weaknesses it generates, and that the said system deserves a special debate, which will be held at future meetings of the Committee. I would also like to stress on another issue that opened in the debate, which is the question, therefore, of separate collection of waste in large cities and the City of Zagreb, as well as the appearance of wild dumps. In particular, the problem of wild dumps at local level is highlighted, near Roma settlements that fail to end the communal order. The proposer stressed that this problem of wild dumps around Roma settlements has been recognised and that meetings were held with municipal chiefs facing this problem. Committee members have been informed that co-financing for the resolution of these deposits in the Republic of Croatia has been considered, and that meetings with representatives of the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds have been held by the Ministry of Environment and Energy. It is also stressed that the proposed Law provides for greater powers for municipal directors, I believe that today it will be one of the main topics, the main stumbling block, so greater powers of municipal directors towards the perpetrator, given that they are given the opportunity to order on the spot the removal of unlicensed waste, the person they found throwing waste into the environment, and so far it has not been possible, in accordance with the applicable Law or so far, that the municipal director could not punish the one he caught to delay the waste, but the owner of that land was asked to go to the owner with penalties. Furthermore, in the context of reducing the phenomenon of wild dumps, the proposing representatives stressed the importance of carrying out informative educational activities and communicating with the public or public awareness-raising programmes to behave more responsibly. And finally, a significant part of the debate was led to the issue of a valid concept of waste management. It has been pointed out that some Western countries are leaving the concept of waste separation because it is too expensive, or are going towards reducing the price of waste disposal for citizens without the selection of waste on the domestic threshold or by sorting and processing of waste in recovery plants. In this regard, a question has been raised in which direction the Republic of Croatia will move. On the other hand, the debate stressed that there is no other way than to accept waste as raw materials or separate waste collection systems. In this respect, it has been warned that no system should be tried based on the market failure of certain units of local self-government because it cannot go into separate collection of waste without sorting lines and composts. The system should therefore be built on the concept of separate collection, sorting and composting. The debate also stressed the importance of reducing production or even creating waste at source, and in this respect the ministry was called for more active action. After the debate was held, the Committee decided with most votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Management of Waste, there were 6 votes for, 2 abstentions and 1 vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124896	Comrade Vard, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124897	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the Club of Labour and Solidarity of Independent Representatives, please grant me a break of 10 minutes for consulting at the club because we did not know that we had introduced a new duty through the Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament to begin to record the presence of other parliamentary representatives. Namely, as I followed MP Maras took over the role of the records and began counting the representatives and commenting on someone's non-presence or presence. In order to keep to count alone, it could even be accepted but the comments are a little too much. Getting cheap political points in such a way and similar ways has become a rule of political behaviour for MP Maras, a political attitude and a programme need to be commented on for something. Since the party to which MP Maras belongs obviously has no political position either, the program has only been counted and failed to comment. For his information while he held one of his usual political speeches fixed on Zagreb and Mayor Milan Bandic, members of the Labour and Solidarity Party and Independent Representatives Club have grossed in the club a final version of the three amendments that we will make to the final proposal of this law that we are discussing. We were also present, which was our special honor, at a constitutive session of the informal group of representatives of the Croatian Parliament called "Representatives against Cancer". We work with Zagreb and Zagreb, and let our colleague Maras continue to record the presence of representatives of his own club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124898	However, in one part, you mentioned that you were working on amendments to this law, so I'm giving you a break even though you devoted most of your break to not being able to be a reason to ask for a break. So in one part of it, you respected this one. Here you go, fellow Voter.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124899	Here I am glad that you have warned your colleague Vard that in one part he has injured the Rules of Procedure and that Article 238, paragraph 5, because he is actually calling Mr Maras for something that very often MPs here do in their exhibitions when they warn that there are insufficient numbers of representatives in the Croatian Parliament and that they actually have an impression of themselves. I think the MPs here have the right to say what's bothering them. First of all, stick to the subject, but this isn't the way to deal with it. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124900	So, I approve of the break, but my colleague Glasovac, so now my colleague Varda could also call his colleague Maras if he wasn't present, as a lot of MPs aren't present, if we're going to introduce the practice of calling ourselves then it's going to be very ugly for everyone. So I'd invite you not to do that because often someone isn't in the assembly. Ha, it's often called, you're not exactly the ones who don't call, but good. I have to approve Stanka. It's till 10.55. It's 10:00.44. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 11:00 A.M.]] The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists and counterpart Slaven Dobrović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124902	Thank you, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, I welcome all my colleagues and colleagues and, of course, the representatives of the ministry. The law on sustainable waste management complements and changes cannot be said that these changes and additions do not bring any good measures, some of which in themselves are not bad, but because of the situation in which the entire portfolio is located I think the level and approach has been missed and therefore it is difficult to accept all of this, to support these changes. I've already said in an explanation of the pause that this really looks like a situation where it will be on a sinking ship and, of course, where certain concrete measures should be taken we are dealing with changing, I don't know, embellishing, changing light bulbs or such things. I'll explain it now, of course. So what's missing here? So through this law one could articulate some of the measures to urgently discourage delays as measures and solutions for many units of local self-government. Why? I remind you that we are tasked with a transition or a transition from a delay to a basic waste management measure to something else. What else is that? This is a circular waste management because I remind you of the access contract and the Sustainable Waste Management Act that we have brought in the negotiation process defines the minimum amount of waste that we will recycle. And that is why those units of local self-government that do nothing to establish that part of the system that can only secure that transition but are waiting for broken hands, cheaply delaying doing damage to them and to us in particular because, of course, Croatia also cares about its statistics throughout. So we'll have to meet our obligations. I say a cheap delay that, because what costs to put off, so in the existing space, with a small number of workers really little cost because today's system does not include the numerous extreme costs that exist, which are not in the collection system. These extreme costs are later seen when this is resolved, with the resolution never solving all the problems that have been accumulated in the environment for years and that have been happening for years endangering human health. So it's missing. Of course, what would be a good deferral tax would be, so this is what I negotiated as a government minister, explaining that this is not a parafiscal imposition, but that it is a stimulating measure, and of course we have previously made a commitment and that many countries have experienced as a very effective tool for this transition that I was talking about. It's not there, it's stopped permanently. It is only about the compensation that units of local self-government will be paid in some way when waste is delayed in their area from other local self-government units. Waiting to open the centres and do nothing, especially when it is in the case of large cities such as many in Dalmatia, let's say Split is very famous. So in his waste management plan, he didn't define the location either for the sortery or for the compost. And that's quite unusual, it's a tragic situation. So they are waiting for Lečevica or a waste management centre that is similar to this in Mariščina, I ask you all to study it, so the Centre for Waste Management in Mariščina, which is an object designed in the 2005 strategy, a missed strategy because it is not actually in line with what we later changed through the law. It defines these very centers as system carriers because it was intended to process 90% of the waste through them. However, look at what is done there, it is a mechanical biological waste treatment and there is an inertisation of biodegradable material and the production of waste fuel, which was then intended to settle part of the cost. Today, the situation is different, and we see that the price imagined in those years is invaluable, or that it will be significantly higher. So the cost of processing by taking all economic parameters. In addition to this economic quality of these centers, however, it is important to know that there is no recycling but minimum minimum. And possibly glass or some metal can be isolated, we can ask in Mariščina what has been achieved in these years or in Kastion. So that's not the answer. Therefore, in addition to this discouragement, the law would have to go, i.e. measures from the ministry towards the urgent establishment of what can only be met by those obligations, which is an ecological infrastructure that must have a head and tail, which must be complete so that the waste disposal vessels that the fund has been planning for 2 years to obtain effectively in their way. Without the sortery, it doesn't mean anything and why everything is centralized, why not leave it to the units of local self-government, they don't have to be vessels at all, why cans, containers? Can someone in your area say we'll pass with bags, one way or another you should and for them some kind of help. Mostly sorting centres, recycling centres with sorting and composting are inevitable and there are shifts, the announcement of a funding tender is being discussed, but this is not seen in these changes. So we're just changing what they say, but we're not ready to take those tools that are available to us if we want, if we're determined, if we're aware, if we're willing to learn from our neighbors who have achieved such measures results. So besides sortery, reuse centres are important, and recycling courtyards are important, which must be functional, not just system decorations. And who must be the one to pick up all the troublesome junk. And work to ensure that units of local self-government understand the importance of eTA or that the efficiency of the collection of problem waste is raised because it facilitates the handling with the rest is important but is not visible anywhere. It's about cost-effectiveness all the time, why, we have the market failure of many units of local self-government that have introduced a separate collection system in an incomplete way, unconstitutional. So they don't know what to do with it, so this dilute material collected through some vessels, without a system of individualization of responsibility that creates a feedback to the user that creates a mess in the system. So of course it's a market failure. There are many market failures in Croatia, however, why are we not talking about market success? There are units of local self-government that have successes and that have their own measures and that need to go to them who don't understand it, read it, be sure there. So, for example, long-term practice on the island of Krk shows that their price of separate collection between 200 and 300 kuna per tonne. So when you take all the market parameters to be covered, it's 200 to 300 kuna per tonne of separately collected waste. In Mariščina, this material is waiting for them with an account, I don't know how many, 500 kuna per tonne. So it's twice as much looking only through market price categories, so in these conditions, I draw attention to the fact that there are external costs that today's market system doesn't see. Environmental pollution, CO2 emissions could only be seen indirectly because their system where parity and plastic is returned to industry and thus allows for the reduction of energy consumption of these CO2 emissions to be seen but there are other elements of external costs which this karst system has as a benefit because it achieves, because it reduces these costs and these systems do not reduce. Therefore, everything goes in favour of learning, those who do not know, to see how to do it to establish an ecological resource for an effective approach and to work continuously after establishing it. Yeah, that's all that's important, because I'm mentioning again, we have this obligation, it's not because of the weak negotiation. I don't understand those who claim we should get it, we need another 50 years, we're an uncivilised Balkans. It's a matter of civilized approach. So the waste, that bucket black on the road, it really looks and reminds me of the middle ages when they were throwing excrements on the road. So, the trash that's all mixed up, the stiffness of the rest of our lives, we can't treat it that way, and we have to change each other together, so because civilised conduct, so in this segment, it means to return to the maximum possible extent of our solid remains, waste back to the economic system. I'll just remind you, paper, so if 200, 300 000 tonnes of paper is still being thrown in Croatia, maybe more on dumps, so it's worth at least 200, 300, 400, 500 kuna per tonne, it's worth it but only if it's collected separately, sprayed, ballir and sent to Belisce, we don't know where, we had in Zagreb, unfortunately I don't know if it works, then... or anywhere, we're part of Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is worth money and that value and it can cover a good part of the cost incurred by the collection, however, this paper and the cardboard it costs in Mariščina, on Jakushevec, as much as it is there, 400 plus VAT, 500 kuna per tonne, it costs because it is not worth it, I don't know if someone will pull it out, it costs, cost in Mariščina and more than that, it will cost in Lečevica, I guess, I don't know what projections and prices there are, 800, 900 kuna per tonne, and that difference is huge and she, I mentioned in a billion kuna of new cost, if we'll leave the system going to strengthen the CGO and raise their capacity close to 15 years ago. The closer we get to this system, the more it will cost the citizens, and the opposite is to build a system similar to that on Krk, with Krk not at 55%, Prelog is better and they have to build yet, so that's not the end. It can be achieved because statistics show that those cities that have consistently started have very high results, 80% is not sains fixed. Thus, this case means that the waste provides more than a billion kuna worth of materials on the market that can cover costs. And I would like to see the documents that come into the assembly and have this atmosphere-oriented movement towards this other one, and unfortunately it all points out that we are much closer to the solutions already seen, so above the River in Mariščina or Pula Kastijun, which will be to the detriment of the citizens of the financial and to the harm of our beautiful country, which will be a poorly developed resource-inefficient country that may also face foam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124903	Thank you, too, and now it's up to the IDS, PGS and LRI, Mr. Tulio Demetlika.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124904	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable secretary of state with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. At the very beginning of my presentation, I would like first of all to express my dissatisfaction that there is no minister present today on such an important subject. The Management Act, i.e. I think that every citizen in the Republic of Croatia is being touched and that on this kind of adoption of an important document, the minister himself is not present, and I don't think it's good for the secretary of state. But at the very beginning, I'm going to tell the IDS, PGS and LRI about this, I'm going to tell the final draft of the law. I would like to say a few positive things, but the positive things that have happened in the process of making these changes and additions, but I also want to point to some indetermination and lack of meaning. At first, I would like to express my satisfaction that the ministry responded to the call of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government and held a meeting with representatives of the Associations of Cities, which pointed to a number of shortcomings in these amendments and additions to the law and resulted in the adoption of the proposed proposals and their inclusion in the final draft law. So we support this interest by the ministry in order to make it easier to implement the law in practice because it should also be the basic objective of each law. So he's clear and he's expendable. It is good that it is working together between the ministry and local and regional (regional) self-government, to respect attitudes and suggestions because it is the only proper way to communicate. But what our club cares about is the problem of meeting the conditions set by the waste management plan. We are faced with a huge problem, which is the slowness in meeting the commitments we have made as a member of the EU. This slowness can best be seen in the fact that we are dangerously late because only 1 Mariščina and Kastijun were built and the other 10 would be expected to be built in the next 2 years. What I'm interested in next is punishments. Penalties that the Republic of Croatia will have to pay precisely for failing to meet these terms prescribed by the plan and I repeat this question again in my first reading to Mr. Minister, which is how Croatia will pay i.e. resolve the payment of these pens and those penalties and whether this will be paid in solidarity from the state budget, or only those who have not met the conditions will pay. I ask this question for reasons because in Croatia there are some areas that work well and which meet the requirements of the plan, so I wonder whether the burden will be re-located to those who have fulfilled and regularly and regularly fulfilled their obligations and that they will suffer at the expense of those who did not meet these conditions. who have not adequately carried out their duties. The next question I ask is the payment of a depositary fee in which the depositary is located, that is, the State Secretary in its opening statement refers to Article 22, and I must say that as a representative of the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, I have asked the question about the introduction of payment and the depositary fee in which the site is located and whether that provision applies to biodegradable landfills within the centre, who determines the amount of compensation and whether it will also be determined for a specific area covered by the centre or whether that provision applies to a single compensation for the entire area of the Republic. The ministry's reply is that the criteria and method of determining the amount of compensation and the method of payment and payment of compensation will be determined by the Regulation. I can say that I am not satisfied with that answer because I hold that it is precisely the law to define who will pay the fee and I suggest that, in paragraph 22, if this does not refer to biodegradable landfills, that it is precisely stated that this is still the landfill we will say standard i.e. Not biodegradable to rule it out. The next thing we want to warn you is currently the biggest problem in the context of this topic, which is the care and use of the SRF. waste fuel. In particular, at the centre of Kaštijun, as well as Mariščini are produced daily and warehouses of SRF, which are not resolved by the method of use. So the SRF is currently being stored in the open space, if it can be said to be being stored or delayed, space is getting smaller and if soon, but I will say, together does not find an adequate solution, there will be a stop and re-deposit of waste to the dump. But I would like to remind you that this particular MBO technology has been determined by the state through strategy. I want to say that the investor was also a state with co-financing of the local self-government unit. What I'm saying is that this waste management process isn't fully defined. So we, in part, solved both the collection and the separation, but we solved the final product of the SRF, and the state was obliged to draw up a strategy in which it would be resolved. We now have a situation on the ground to be visited by inspections, and normally, solutions threaten penalties for inadequate management of the SRF. So those who have built or done something because of the delay and the unquality solution given by the state, these companies will be forced to pay a certain penalty. I'm warning you of this situation, and I'd hate to be forced to look for solutions to court tomorrow. It is clear from this that we must now urgently find a transitional solution until a study has been carried out by the Government and which should be provided by 2019, but I note, it is too late. So we need to find a transitional solution at the moment. Furthermore, today may not be about the topic, but I warn in time, that the Ministry of Croatian Waters and, together with local self-government units, invest significant resources in wastewater treatment systems, while on the other hand, as we do not have for the SRF today, we do not have a defined mud management system that can also be used through technological capabilities as a fuel part and it should be included in that study in such a way we would certainly get in time. I would also like to draw attention to the problems faced by municipal companies related to the management of selected fractions such as paper, glass and plastics. Today, we have authorized companies that take over these factions from utility companies, for which they today are obliged to pay compensation, which increases normally the price for our citizens. That fee is more expensive than the processing itself in the center, resulting in, as I said, an increase in costs for our citizens. In addition, the waste management plan also required the ministry to set up a waste stock exchange, for which the deadline was until the end of 2018 and it was not done. This shows that, unfortunately, the state does not meet its obligations in time, and the waste stock market is not established, making it difficult to work for municipal companies, as well as to collect the services themselves. In particular, I would like to warn that the state is also late in the construction of varieties that would contribute precisely to better quality or quality of the raw materials placed on the market. In conclusion, I can finally say that in the part where we are satisfied with the process of the ministry itself, which took into account constructive proposals between the two readings to make the final draft of the law as high as possible, as well as with its application, however, we have warned of all the problems in the implementation of the law itself and we are calling for adequate tools to be found together with the centres to round up the entire waste management process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124905	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Josip Boric will speak in front of the HDZ Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124906	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, fellow Members and fellow MPs. The theme of sustainable waste management in the second reading, the law passed in 2013 is the story that has been running through space and political space for decades and months, both state and regional and local levels. It has been 15 years since a certain obligation was made to be ready to be in the same countries that we wanted to be together in the common union at a given time of year, to do something similar to what they were doing in this area. And it has been really many years where this issue has been delayed and finally again, I say, before this government, a question or a problem to be addressed in this term by 2020 in order to achieve certain goals that have long, long ago been set. There were different variants and ways to approach the problem, from local, regional and state level. And this government and the minister, indeed, have done the greatest of what the government can over the past two years. Let's not run away from what needs to be done both regional and local. Already after three months, there somewhere in early 2017 this government adopted a Waste Management Plan at the level of the Republic of Croatia and set goals and bases in which the 2020 will be ready to accomplish the tasks set out long ago. Respecting the statistics, which even then, at the time of the adoption of the plan, were not, let's call them so professionally processed in terms of having completely accurate data, this plan was done I think of the data from 2015. We must then read what it says. In 2015, a million and 650 thousand tonnes of waste was deposited. It's about 300 pounds per capita. The largest share of this waste, mixed municipal waste, makes up that kitchen waste, which is created in the household, 31%, then plastic 23%. Only 2 categories more than 50% of waste to be taken care of, separately and in one quality way. 2015 statistics, average recovery levels of such waste 18% of total. Who creates or which counties or cities produce the most such waste, most of all the City of Zagreb, after which are Split Dalmatian County, Primorje Goran County and Istria County. They're all over 100,000 tons, all other counties then lower. The plan, as well as many plans before that, envisioned the creation of a waste management centre, planned for 13, dumps 148 of which 135 for municipal waste and 13 for production waste. And then there are clear 16 goals that we need to do by 2020, 2021 and '22. Mr. First objective is to reduce the production of municipal waste by 5% at least. Collect 60% of the waste separately. Separately collect 40% of the biowaste, dump 25% of the mixed municipal waste and separately collect 75% of the building waste. These are the goals that we must as a state, as regional and local level, all together achieve. The price of 5 billion kunas, these amounts are estimated, which would cost to happen. A law passed after I say two years of making a plan, following what's going on on in the field, and I can really say that this minister,... With their assistants, every day, they communicate on this matter, with a local level, they can speak from their own experience, see what they do to make this process life and respect what is happening on the ground. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why the changes are good, life-threatening, with some of the little problems that we've talked about on the board, which may need to be respected, as far as the issues of construction waste are concerned. What did we do in that time? I'm saying, what happened from all these goals, when we talk about the dumps and the centers themselves. From the center we have 2 completed, Kashiyun and Mariščina, 2 who are ahead of the competition or the start of the competition or possible construction and 9 who are late. We had a session, a thematic session of the Assembly Committee on Environmental Protection, where the directors of these centres clearly presented the phases and problems they face in obtaining documentation to be building centres. The fact is that the regional level obviously does not understand enough of its own obligations, because it is not quite appropriate to run for 10 years and there is no documentation for the centres, which are foreseen at regional level. The easy approach to solving this problem seemed likely to be possible, because it was considered if there were no such centres, if there are no other options, then even waste prices should not rise. However, this will have to happen in the coming years, someone will have to pay something in this regard. And that's why we have a lot of strong campaigns these days, we also see on information shows, that many units of local self-government are being waken up, that it's starting to think more seriously, but the primary story about the price list is what the price list is going to be, how much is the increase, etc. He's not the pricer of dealing with waste management, the pricer is just the end of a process. There are stairs to pass before that and it is avoided. I also told the parliamentary committee and asked the directors of these centers to speed up their own activities, because too much time had passed to easily approach or draw on explanations that this had not happened because of it. Last year, the state planned funds that could not be invested in waste management centres, but still everyone is looking at the government, even though it has secured funds and has been removed on rebalancing. So the regional level, at this point, should strengthen its activities. The local level, it received its tasks and the basis of the law and the basis of the plan. All local self-governments were supposed to bring in waste management plans. I think the vast majority of them are that... I don't know exactly the statistics, but I think 90% of them did it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should have established our own systems based on these plans and started with the Environmental Protection Fund in order to obtain all the necessary tools, so that they could separately collect waste. And it started to happen, the fund started to call the competition. In this year there is a tender for the purchase of a container for the separation of mixed municipal waste. The amounts are not small somewhere over 350 million kunas and we see the desire and inclusion of over 400 units of local self-government. If we have the necessary trucks, if we have the tanks, if we have the dump that we plan to close or is about to close, so that we can drive into an open centre, we in our county have closed all the dumps and drive to the CGO Mariščina. When all these conditions are set, then the price list is the last part of the whole story. Where does the price increase come from? The price increase occurs in the part of the cost incurred by the export of waste from a closed dump to a CGO. This is part of the increase in the total price. We've had systems to maintain so far. These are utility companies that have tools, employees and it costs so much a year and it's not something that surprises us, we know how much we spend on maintaining the system. The fixed part of the price covers the maintenance of the system and it can vary in its price list in certain percentages. Directors, commissioners, mayors had to measure the price list in a way to cover that variable part of the price list, which is the cost of driving, mixed municipal waste to the CGO. And there comes the story of how much it should be. Everyone took their own sizes as well as in any way but these citizens themselves form their own account. If you're gonna put a bucket once a week, twice a week, once every week or four times a month, you're gonna pay 40, 20, 10 kuna of your own contribution to that ride. The more you separate less municipal waste, the less you drive away and the less you pay. And it's real and it's set. I think this law that covers now and another new moment and that's economic waste from the mining industry, at every point clearly shows that the improvement is compared to what we've had so far. It is also very important that this part of the compulsory insurance of the recycling yard is increased to a minimum number of residents in local self-government units from 1500 to 3000. I come from an island that has 10,000 inhabitants, we have two units of local self-government. If the previous law had remained, we would have made 2 recycling courtyards, our needs covering one recycling yard and then there is a problem as far away as possible. When we sorted everything out on the doorstep, when we brought plastic to the recycling room, metal, glass, paper, what's next? That's where the state has a problem now. What about the extra plastics, what about the extra paper because we don't have the ultimate redeemer who wants to buy out all the quantities that they're now detaching. It's a problem that will be solved in the next two years, how to create a final buyer who can pick up means anything that local self-government can single out. The transport of such waste is free of charge, at least I know, so we're paying for the transportation of mixed municipal waste ourselves. And finally, the story of municipal directors being reintroduced and in this proposal, indeed every legislative proposal in any area of construction, from now on environmental or management protection, I don't know about waste management now or about any other authority, indeed these employees are getting more and more of their own tasks, and they are increasingly being given responsibility for a certain level of order in the field of a local self-government. Can they do that? Looking at the number of employees, I don't think I can, that it's become a problem and the very way they can react. whether they have sufficient expertise to absorb all these legal acts, so that they can write good solutions that will not fall, that they have good records or evidence that all of this could work. But the question is, who is he if it isn't the communal director? Who will be at the local level who will need to monitor whether someone has separated or delayed unlicensed municipal or any other type of waste. If it's gonna be the police, we know it can't be. If it's going to be someone else, I don't think there's enough of them, so we're going to look at the inspectors that we have one or two at the level of some regional level. So the question is, who's that, it's just the communal director again. I think that in this respect this provision is logical but we need to see if these people can really do with everything they do in summer, especially in the coastal part when there's a big crowd and a lot of people coming to these places, that they're staying in traffic both on beaches and at sea, etc., that they're dealing with these things now. And in the end, I'm going to say that the HDZ Club supports the adoption of this law and that we're going to propose three amendments to Articles 12, 14 and I think, 50, and I'm going to say, we're going to vote for this kind of law, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124907	Thank you, too. In front of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, Mr Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124908	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Our club will also support these amendments to the law but I would like to present here on behalf of the club a few thoughts and thoughts and problems with which units of local self-government are facing but also the problems facing the citizens of the Republic of Croatia now, given the changes in waste management legislation. It is always most important to deal with environmental protection and to take care of the environment, of course the best, the strongest we can do if we care and manage waste well. Finally, it is a matter concerning every citizen of the Republic of Croatia, because a citizen of the Republic of Croatia is ultimately paying the price of waste transportation. I have to say, I've been following a little bit these days what happens to local self-government units and I'm a little surprised by some things by certain local self-governments. In view of the obligation to make new prices and new way of showing the price of waste disposal, it is now happening on the ground, that certain units of local self-government, use changes to the law and raise waste prices, waste exports, more than would be necessary. I'll give you some specific examples later. And now that we don't have a situation, that in some cities, prices practically remain the same, examples of the city of Sibenik, and let's say that in some cities like the Cross, the price goes on average 65% up, then one would say that it's all right, that it's normal, but if it's a situation, then something isn't normal. There are, of course, local self-governments, in which the cost of waste disposal was well below some average of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, that they had to correct it now and come into some normal, some normal difference in the price of waste transportation. I don't think that kind of approach is right. And if it's not right to practically raise service prices, in a way that's said, is that new legislation, the state has changed the laws and we now because of these laws, we need to increase the cost of waste disposal, it's happening on the ground, specifically it happened in my city. And not only in my town, but in the four surrounding municipalities, which belong, where the city's municipal enterprise was collecting waste. I want here, to show a little bit of that system and connect it to that article of the 19th Amendment, or, related to the article, it seems to me to be 35, which is the number of inhabitants for the recycling of the yard. So on one small example, the town of Križevci and the municipal enterprise, where it collects waste on 4 surrounding municipalities, Gornja Rijeka, Klanik, Sveti Petar... St. Ivan Žabno has a renovated dump, has a recycling yard, has 6, 7 years of separately collected waste and has a price that has already been adjusted by quantity. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now we have a situation here that units of local self-government, which are over 3,000 inhabitants, will need to practically address the question of the recycling yard. I may not have detailed enough to understand whether they will have the obligation to do so on their own, or, for example, on this plastic example of the Cross, it will continue to be possible for them to carry out a municipal enterprise that has a recycling yard in the Križevci and which collects waste to all four surrounding municipalities. Or St. John’s and St. Peter Orehovec’s municipalities, which have over 3,000 inhabitants, will have to provide somehow their recycling yard for the collection of this waste that is collected in recycling courtyards. I think that if that were the case, if it wasn't right and it didn't have to be, that whoever collects the waste, who does it, if he has solved the recycling yard for some area, that he can do it without any problem and that he doesn't need to burden local self-government units specifically with these problems. Just as companies dealing with waste collection don't have to raise prices if it's not really said by some mathematical indicators of real costs that come up. We have a situation, that the City Association has supported these amendments to the law, that the association of cities, as far as I've seen from the data, has been actively involved. So here's a harmonised proposal that came before the MPs, and as such, there's no reason not to support him as such. But, I repeat, we have a problem going on in the field, where we manipulate and exploit changes to the legislation, so that in some cases citizens, in some cases, don't speak in general, I don't speak in general, in some cases, to increase prices without any mathematical reason for these increases. I would like to be able to respect what we define by law that by 2022 we should have solved regional centres, although from the very beginning of establishing regional centres I personally believe that we have defined ourselves for the wrong connection, that it is not good and that we have gone in the wrong direction, but we have gone where we went and there is no return, we have to go in this direction, we could certainly get rid of it much more quality for more locations, more environments, and we have reduced the costs of waste disposal, because, of course, we will have to open the regional centre, get to the increased costs of transport and the cost of waste and waste management will certainly grow for the final users, for the citizens of the Republic, but I say, it is there, it's been a long time, we need not to charge anyone here, because in principle all the political actors, all these political parties, which all these years have gone back, since all these concepts started, were involved, and they've been in some way that they've been able to do so much with 20 people, because they'll be able to go through, because they's, but they'll have to go through the way, they'll go through the way, because they' to go through the way, they' to go through the way, and they go through the way, and they' to the way, and they's, and they's from the way, they're to go, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, and they'll have to go, and they', they', they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they's, they'll go, they', they'll go, they', they', they', and they', and they', and they', and they's, they', they', they', they', they'll go, they', they', they', they' and they'll go, and they', they'll go, they', they', they', they', they', they', they', they', they', they'll go, they', they', they', they Some dumps have been rescheduled, it is planned to close, and regional centres have not been built and opened, and then there are problems where the waste is further. We need to be careful here and watch what happens so that this story doesn't happen again, so that we don't have such unfortunate situations again and bring citizens into certain local self-governments into problems they don't need. So, the HDS Club, HSLS, the HDSB will support these amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124909	Now, in front of the Independent Representatives' Club, Mr Tomislav Zhagar will take the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124910	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished state secretaries with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so that I refer a little bit to Mr. Hrg's presentation and he's really right when he says, now we're in a picturesque word to the bus we're driving in, so if he's turned off the line we're in a situation that we're still driving in it, we can't sit down now so let's change the line, actually if we want to ask how much time we have at our disposal. So, this law, it's not about this law giving a vague picture of the real state we're looking for, it gives a very clear picture of an irregular state when I say uneven in or on what we wanted to achieve, and where we are now being warned by speakers before and the law in that sense is not bad, these legislative changes. Because as far as it can be seen that there have been talks with representatives of local self-government units of those who are actually carrying the burden of this process and that some of their remarks have been respected and that this has been incorporated into this legislative proposal. Before I say two remarks that seem to me to be an important and reasoned amendment that we have filed on behalf of the club on the law, let me say something in general now and it is important to mention in this debate. Therefore, as stated in Article 23 of the Law, waste management is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and is indeed of interest to the Republic of Croatia. What the Republic of Croatia has been following lately, and it seems to me that the situation will not be significantly improved in the near future, and of course it's not the subject of this law, but the whole of one economic situation is that we have many systems, here's an example in Slavonia from where I come from, many systems that are pre-named. So when we talk about the sewer system that is being built, we have systems that, unfortunately, will not be enough for the population to be sustainable in the future. Here's an example of a picturesque we'll probably have to push the drinking water through the sewer system so it doesn't stay dry because there won't be people. It is similar to our system that we have chosen, the waste management system, because if we talk about waste management centres, many have already been warned before, and now more and more that these systems will not simply have enough waste to be cost-effective or profitable. And in general, when we talk about waste, then we can't forget that waste is related and the concept of material and energy and, of course, money and circular economy, what we're saying is not cheap. The circular economy cannot be achieved just like this and significant separations are needed and some technological developments are needed. Now we can only wonder if the system we are building is sustainable, unsustainable or unsustainable and when it can even live. For example, Italy can see how Italy paid, I think that 40 million fines in one, one, one, and every 6 months 40 million euros if it fails to meet certain requirements. And that is the danger that threatens Croatia, so above all we have warned or warned before colleagues and colleagues to lose EUR 475 million at our disposal that we can include in this business and that later we are paying for the pensions so that we have double, double damage. And once again, I'm going to just mention the introduction, when it comes to the origin of the waste, it's often said that waste comes from the house, it's not true that waste comes from production. You today have a situation that many products are more difficult or at least greater volume takes up packaging products than I am product, that's a fact. We can ask a question, I'm a citizen, why the milk isn't packed in glass packaging, is that wouldn't be progressing towards environmental protection. We have a number of those milk products that are packaged in small quantities are plastic packaging, but that is one question that will not be solved by penalization but could only be solved by stimulating measures, so that is to say that the Ministry of Economy would also encourage those, those entrepreneurs and those productions that will take care of the environment. So, we've made commitments, we've made some kind of strategy, we've got the law on our way to fix it, and we're all being followed by a time that we don't have much, and I have to say that I'm going to talk to my colleagues at the club before the vote, but I'm going to suggest that we support this bill because we don't have time, and now we can say that we should have some other directions, but I'm afraid we won't do it then, and we're going to be late. Now I'm going, I promised to make two things very important, so I'm going back to the local self-government units. The public is talking about reforming the state administration, including reforming our or the territorial reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia. Look at these laws, we can do it. Any law that allows units of local self-government to join together, to work together is the way towards reform in fact of our territorial reconstruction, and that is why it is good that we are here in the article, I think Article 28 paragraph, no, Article 35 paragraph 4 is added, says the first sentence, a second sentence which is more units of local self-government can be agreed upon to ensure the joint fulfilment of the obligation to provide a functional recycling yard through a mobile unit which, in the sense of this law, considers a recycling yard. That's a good thing, and I think that Boric was saying, I think some colleagues are preparing the amendment, that the number of 1500 we're now replacing with 3,000 people, to increase to 5,000 more if possible, that would be something else, but I don't know if it's possible because of the demands we need to meet. In accordance with Article 28(2) of the Law, this already exists, several units of local self-government may agree to ensure the joint fulfilment of one or more units of local self-government can ensure the joint fulfilment of one or more of the obligations referred to in paragraph 1 and paragraph 1 of Article 28 that the local self-government unit is obliged in its field to provide public service for the collection of mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste. That's good, but then the amendment can't be set up, but please, the Ministry's representatives to think about it, now can't because this isn't the subject of these changes, it would be convenient, so it seems to me, in Article 31, then also add in paragraph 1. that the company established by the local self-government unit and in which the majority of the shares or shares are held, is talking about who can do the public service, that the company can be established here too, a company of several units of local self-government. Based on the example of former companies that were... Water supply, right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one of the suggestions. As for the amendments to Article 20, it means the part where a municipal director can find someone, I don't think he's, I also suggested to the secretary of state, he's a lawyer, so instead of being caught because you're careful that it can be dangerous, the communal director isn't armed, I know that if he comes anywhere we never know what kind of disposal is being done, where we've had cases of the past that even some dangerous waste has been deposited in the area where it's forbidden, and then we suggest that that part of the sentence is reformed if the waste has been delayed in that area... a person who has knowledge or evidence to reject waste outside the location of its management. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that the communal officer has certain knowledge or witnesses so that he can end up betraying it with a solution and then later in court, and it always has to be proved whether it was so, that the communal director finds someone in the act, it's not good because he can get hurt and I'm not sure that the communal officer can legitimize a person, has no right, it can only be the police. He can call the police in that case but regardless, any citizen who notices it is obliged to call the police. And finally what's all about this law. No matter how much we look at this whole waste management problem, we have to keep in mind that it's money after all. I also warned a long time ago when only the ministry was formed, somehow it's illogical for me and today that energy and environmental protection are together because it seems to me that they're collapsing, that then there's the minister himself in conflict of interest, but well, that's another topic. What's for sure, all the mistakes we make will end up paying and who else than citizens and it's important that as soon as possible, because the time doesn't have much, as soon as possible, the unit of local administrations and all those who need to do their jobs, so that now this system that we've imagined with 13 CGOs will live up and that at the end of the price paid by citizens wouldn't be too high, because every delay will certainly increase that price and, as far as it's concerned, the separation on the doorstep, of course, should go with a preventive, pardon with promotion to go, with incentive measures towards people, we can see that in the past through this return fee and through some other things, it has succeeded, so that people are increasingly seeing that we care about the environment, concern about our future and the future of our children. So I will personally support the bill and I hope that my clubmates will do the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124911	Thank you. Now, Mr. Milorad Batinic will speak in front of the Club of HNS Representatives, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124912	Thank you, Vice President, Secretary of State, ma'am. assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The subject of waste has not been since yesterday, I will briefly look back at this last part, meaning since the very adoption of the basic law since 2013, I think it was also what I can say that at the time there was an observation by the HNS Club that it was overexpanded, predisposed in terms of regulation exactly in such a way that one large part of both the wheel and the articles and the items could be regulated and defined by sublaws because when we compare certain levels of law, we see that the implementation of such a comprehensive, pre-determined law was in practice quite difficult. What I can also say is that it's been a long time since it's been more intensely out there since 2001-2002, when, in Croatia, when we started to deal with waste management in terms of finding and finding a solution, there's been a lot of wandering, from local, regional, national levels, there was first a question, what centres, where these centres will be located, so ultimately, no one wants a dump in their backyard, no one wants any centres. And I think that in that part, all the governments that were until then, that should be based on some decision or one more detail, so to speak, stricter strategies, very clearly define, define and not just a lesson, but as far as technology itself is concerned. The fact is that the selection of certain technologies, which have been abandoned over time, was one of the reasons and would dare to say a certain phase of wandering. But as far as the waste itself is concerned, what is crucial is gone, as one of our free lunch colleagues said. There won't be any, and the fact is that waste management from year to year, maybe not year to year, but over certain periods, will be more expensive and more expensive. Which is then the aim of the bill promoter and all those of the national, regional, local level, but not only of them, but also of all other stakeholders, so to speak, the waste producer in some way prevents the production of that waste. Take an example, everyone in the household will focus on that waste that's in the household, buy, specifically the granddaughter's toy, get a large portion of the cardboard, plastics, this kind of paper, it's packed, so I don't know an item either, again plastic and finally when you sort it at home you have to especially if it's blinded that cardboard and plastic, you have to separate it and especially sort it out. Okay, that's acceptable. However, I ask the question, did this particular car have to be so packed up in all this together? Why didn't the merchant get out of the packaging without that packaging sold the car or anything else and left it with him and he took care of it, that this obligation was just an example of thought. You'll tell me, so it's not possible, so it's a lot, anything is possible when it's intended to try to solve something. I mentioned plastics she's a problem, I'd say you'd dare say, about mixed municipal waste, the biggest problem. Slow decommissioning, we also see in orderly uncoordinated or harmonised dumps, however you like, the wind blows that plastic, because it's not obvious that all these plastics can neither be separated on the doorstep, generally that's the problem. I'm even on an uncoordinated dump in my city, and we've mounted in the environment of a safety net on which this plastic and what the wind blows up after the storage, the disposal, that workers go after a certain period of time after that. Of course it collects. As for the price of waste, I said in the introduction, I believe that based on the regulation, the price had to be made, the regulation set out exactly what the price structure is and if we read the general regulation, as a whole, without looking at specific items now, the price must be collected, simply for what reason? Because everything in the structure of the price itself has accumulated. Is that a hoarding too large, out of some assessment that's objective, that's now a question that can be spoken of. What is essential, the prices are, in fact, the regulation has defined that waste disposal rates must have elements not only of economic but also of long-term sustainability waste management. So far, this has been resolved at certain levels of local self-government, which is now the issue of an analysis of each individual individually. What I'd like to say is the same thing, all of us who were in a position to have a dump in our field of administrative unit, based on the law and the law, we had to pay off in a particular radio, I think it was 500 meters from the edge of the part of the dump to all the owners of the property. And then it was possible under the rules that they, in some way, freed up the property, that whoever I said damaged, but we didn't damage the people living in that area. So we'll make some amendments, and I'll talk about that later. Because I believe that local self-government units, in whose area they are located, that these citizens, directly or wide, have the right to an ecological rental. Based on recent years and years ago, they have an oil rental in the area of the administrative unit, where oil is exploited. There's also a water rent, a rent for the exploitation of mineral raw materials, and apparently, obviously, or not enough, we've been in the vicinity of waste dumps, municipal waste, so we can see what life is like around here. By the way, taking all measures, regulations or sublaws. Furthermore, municipal redistribution was mentioned, there was a certain initiative, although it was interpreted guilty, as well as the Law on the Communist Economy and as regards the jurisdiction of the communal director, however, it will obviously have to happen, because any amendments to the law, additions to the law, new laws of municipal redistribution, I will dare to speak, and I think that I am on the trail of truth, burdening myself with new jobs, and now the communal director may be the ESS. I'm afraid it won't be good anymore. I'm afraid it won't be enough anymore, so I'm suggesting, and I believe you'll also pass on to the competent minister whose responsibility is environmental protection to work together at the government and the vice-president of the government who is familiar, Shtromar, with this, I think it's high time to come forward to create whether it's under the Law on the Communist Economy or the Special Law on Community Reding, where it's going to be much more detailed, but also give far more powers than it has now. It's about having them now. The communal director can't come to the yard without you. Unfortunately. On the matter of waste. And in your circle of your yard, you have an illegal, illegal waste dump. He does not have the right to access but must record, if he can paint on the street side, if he succeeds and has to call the inspector, when he will arrive, a month, two, three, a year, such are unfortunately experiences, and citizens living in the neighborhood suffer damage. Not to mention the nest of rodents, snakes, the threat to the lives of these people. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to be back briefly to this passage of time, and as far as the centers are concerned, it's been wandering before, from the regional centers. First of all, I think it's the main vertical that should be in office, and it's seen in the very performance of the functions and competences it has, it's the national state and local self-government. The regional self-government based on my experience simply shouldn't have been a shareholder in all these processes for 10 years has simply shown that one step that should have simply not in the literal sense of the word skips, does not fit on it, but skips to be able to realize something. As far as construction waste is concerned, we have definitely seen this in particular over the past few years, and this year I also expect it to be a big problem. I have not noticed, although the law has set out an improvement, but I believe that the Ministry through the Environmental Protection Fund should also find models, ways and help local self-governments, especially those weaker fiscal capacity which they do not have in their own resources, that they are provided as soon as possible, even if the recycling yard of construction waste because unfortunately we have construction waste in the environment too. It is that most of that waste is inert, but the burden is on local self-government where the communal director will find someone who unloaded something overnight. I ask you nicely, where? That's one thing. It's another thing. Should I intervene in the Construction Act? To make a recommendation that not a single authority, authorized, whether or not a craftsman, whether a construction firm, without prior consent, without all that must be put down where the construction waste will be put down. You shouldn't go into the construction site, let alone start with the work. It's one way of asking, preventing, preventing illegal dumps. Now I'm going to take a quick look at the amendments, we've given the amendment to the article. 18 in the 16th century behind the words of the dump, where it speaks of what can be financed if local self-government prescribes certain rental development, development funds, so that it can be used for the purpose of financing other facilities and utility infrastructure devices in the unit and local self-government. In order to raise standards in the environment of those people living near the dump primarily. Further to Art. 22 who has been changed and who is on the trail of that and our thinking, but we all know that waste management trusts local self-government with its communal societies. And now it turns out, in this section, that only one budget can be paid to another. The practice is different and it was different and I don't see any reason why it couldn't be different to pay rent to local self-government from the price of waste disposal. So our amendment goes on and on and on, in art. 91st century 3. adoption of the Regulation on fees due to the proximity of the use of the landfill referred to in Article 2 of this Article. units shall regulate their relations with each other by means of a local agreement. .../incomprehensible/... why is that? It says the minister will pass the rule within a year. Who lives, who dies by then. And it will be within a year. What's in that inter-periode? No, we have a gray zone. If local self-government continues to comply with the old rule, the interpretation cannot apply if the new law is in force. Or, the rulebook is really impossible to bring in within, sort of, let's say by emergency procedure to put it that way, at least three months. And what about after those three months? Retroactive use is simply impossible. I would like you to consider these amendments, to accept them and to respect this which is extremely important, and not entirely covered by these amendments and amendments to the laws that are also welcome, acceptable, and at this point I cannot say with certainty whether we will support this bill, I would like to support it, but I would also like you to accept our amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124913	Thank you, too. Mr. Mihael Zmajlovic will speak in front of the SDP Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124914	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is an amendment to the law from the 2013 amendment of the law. And as we could hear in the presentation, the introductory presentation of the applicant but also in the good part of the previous exhibitors is actually talking about how these changes are crucial, etc., key to the functioning of the system. And when you look at the subject of these changes a little bit better then it's not really about the key changes, it's only about the more or less technical changes that have proved to be important in the 5th annual application of this law. But what is the biggest problem when we talk about the waste management system in Croatia is that key parts of this law are not applicable. That's the problem. So it wasn't a problem that something had to change, so in 2019, we're finally going to start doing something after these changes. So key parts of the law are not respected at the head of the Environmental Protection Fund and the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So we have one complete part of the waste management system, which is the management of packaging waste, and that's what you mentioned that units of local self-government don't know what to do with paper, so you don't know what to do with plastic, glass, etc., and that's exactly why the system is so much as foreseen by law. I am here asking the Government of the Republic of Croatia which is why and whose interests are being protected in 2016, so for the third year, monopolies of concessionaries whose contracts have expired are safeguarded by monopolies and therefore the funds from the Environmental Protection Fund are being paid for such an inefficient system when this law is yet in 2013 provided for the abolition of such monopolies and the leaving of certain parts of the market to compensate and to make the price lower, to make the system more efficient and to ultimately offer solutions for small utility companies that do not know what to do with small quantities of plastics, paper, etc., but to therefore define themselves on a market basis through a public call that has been answered by Mr. Slaven Dobrić, Minister of the time, and Mr. Coorić, after that is one such system that represents not only a legal vacuum but in fact one way, I will dare say that the semi-legal situation in which is not only the local solution. And then we could hear from the ruling here that we still have until 2020. And I'll remind you that we don't have any more time. So in 31.12.2018, it was time for the whole system to be established. So for the construction of all these centres that we are now talking about, two have just been built and for the five new ones for which in 2015 there was a prepared tender documentation for the contest for the performance of the works from 2015 to today no competition has been opened, or some have been called and cancelled etc. In three years the cost of construction works went up, from 20 to 40 percent depending on the type of work. And now, as a result, it's not going to be enough, either, because it's been waiting three years. The physibilities of studies that were a prerequisite for the application of such projects are no longer valid, so tens of millions of kunas will again be invested in making new documentation when someone realizes that this is actually the problem. And only then will we be able to start building those 3-4 that are now in... That's what I'm talking about. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And for construction, construction itself takes 2-3 years. And the deadline was for the establishment of all centres at the end of 2018. By 2000, Boric spoke about how here in 2015, we put a million and 600 thousand tonnes on dumps, so it's a little bit more than it should have been. The deadline until 2016 was to reduce this amount of waste that has been delayed to deposits of one million and 200 thousand kuna and for this year you are prescribed by the European Framework Directive and the pre-accession contract, the accession contract of the Republic of Croatia to the EU prescribed that we should not postpone more than 800 thousand tonnes of waste at landfills already this year. At this point, we're postponing twice as much. So 800,000 tonnes contrary to the treaty and to European regulations and directives. So there's no time, no time in 2020 is at stake here, but it's actually one incompetence, the paralysis of a system headed by the HDZ government and all those who support it. This environmental buffer particularly waste management is also a hostage to the conflict that is now coming to the surface between the HNS and HDZ. Because you can see that the Environmental Protection Fund does not actually follow the policy of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, which is not particularly recognizable, but it is seen that some of the sparks are frustrating, and it is also evident that a public call for waste collectors is necessary to reduce costs and reduce parafiscal burdens for the citizens themselves and to offer solutions to establish the entire system is blocked for three years. I'm asking a question for whose interests? So this is not the interest of the Republic of Croatia as one of these articles states that management is a waste of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, but according to this and this dynamic, this is about the interest of the Republic of Croatia on the contrary, it's just a question of who will answer. In his presentation, Tulio Demetlik well identified that one of the problems throughout the system is what is the ultimate product of the mechanical-biological treatment of waste, which is waste fuel or the ERF and there is truth, necessary and necessary cooperation, or one strategic approach of government, to no one else, so this is not just a matter of one resistor and ministry, but of the government, because without the energy component there is no sustainable waste management. So you can't deny that even after you've done everything in primary selection, you've separated it on the doorstep, so even in countries that are champions of the EU, like Austria. So the EU's champion in primary selection, generally waste management in all statistics but also in reality, therefore there is an energy component there, because there is one part of the waste that cannot be used materially, cannot be recycled and has its energy value. It must be used energyly, otherwise it becomes unnecessary cost and then what happens in Zagreb, that you have proposals for non-supervised, astronomical price increases, and above all and above all from the plane is visible that with these prices, high prices that are being passed on to citizens, it is trying to actually cover inefficiency. So the city of Zagreb did not find out that it had to introduce primary selection last year. Why could some other, smaller cities have started this 10, 15 years ago? And the city of Zagreb as a metropolis, as someone who should be a lighthouse, as a role model, has done nothing here until this year. Why are no European funds used to establish a system in the city of Zagreb? Why should citizens have to pay directly for that equipment, these buckets, etc.? But the Environmental Protection Fund, as you know, has been preparing a public call all last year to co-finance the supply of tanks for separate waste collection and then eventually annulled it. And we're all talking about how we need an emergency, fast, late, no time. And now again next year we will also prepare a public call to co-finance the tank. Total paralysis of the system, immeasurable multimillion-dollar damage, financially measurable without saying how much the daily damage to waste dumps is as one of the cheapest and most common ways in which we in Croatia unfortunately take care of waste. And those good parts, therefore, there are also good proposals in this proposal to be supported and absolutely should be supported, but there is one more thing that is not enough or not in any way well argued and that is the introduction of so-called. Disposal fees to be paid by units of local self-government to other units in whose territory the landfill is located. So it's still nobody's convinced me why, which is why this fee that's been abolished is precisely for the reason that things are being put in place, that the price and cost or the cost of this waste disposal service is being transparent. You therefore have a company which manages the waste disposal and which must have its price of the disposal, at that price must calculate all costs as well as the costs of the future recovery of that dump. When there was this fee, the price per tonne charged by those companies was generally relatively low and the funds were then poured into the budget of the municipality or the city by means of a detour. The compensation for landfills where you could no longer know whether this price paid by citizens is real, not real, is it political, is it politically held low on non-economic grounds or, in other words, in a non-transparent way, pouring funds into the city budget or municipal budget. Now this practice is being reintroduced with this proposal. So there is no more transparency, there is no more to be argued that waste disposal is the most expensive variant in Croatia, not the cheapest, because now you have a new source, a deposit fee, who will receive the municipality or city, and this will be darkened by different donations to urban, commercial societies and thus finance the populist and non-economic maintenance of prices and the general provision of certain public services. And for that very reason, the SDP club cannot support these changes. We believe that if the amendments had already been made, that they should have been more comprehensive and that they should have gone in line with certain provisions, especially those which all stakeholders headed by the Ministry of Environmental and Energy and Fund, force and undertake to establish a complete system and if the ruling party or this government considers that this system as being designed in the current law is not good, then it was necessary to propose a new law, develop a different waste management plan, strategy and all that so that certain stakeholders of some municipalities, cities, municipal companies, companies that are dealing with waste recovery could prepare for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124915	Please. On behalf of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club, Mrs. Anka Mrak Taristash will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124916	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister. In our second reading, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management is before us. I often get the feeling, when you're looking a little bit, now I have to do a dipression that has nothing to do with this law, now I've looked at the picture, often the pictures from the assembly are in a way that my right hand side is more full than my left and it's often said that there are no objections, how weak, how not working, look how many of us there are in the Waste Act, which is actually talking about the fact that it's a serious law, but it's also talking about the fact that they're ruling what we're saying, we're going to talk, we're going to make a law, and it's going to go on and the consequences of that we're going to see in a few years. The topic of waste is not the subject of yesterday and will not end safely in this conference and will not be resolved in any other congregation until the end. When we talk about waste, we need to know what we want. This law is a camel. It won't hurt us much, it won't hurt us much, but it won't be much better, and we won't solve the problem that's a waste problem. He has some technical things that are absolutely commendable, but there are a lot of things that were not the subject of amending and supplementing the law and that we are stressing through this debate and need to emphasize and talk about. About 15 years ago, one of my friends went to study, and they asked me what I think about studying the building. I said I think it's going to go, but let's not go in that constructive and in those directions, but let's go in the direction of someone else because this century is going to be a century where we're going to deal with climate change, where we're going to deal with the wastewater problem. And we, in our legislation, in all our strategic documents, mentioned waste in all the negotiations we had with the EU. And then you have this, on the one hand you mention it, on the other hand you have legislation that is better or worse in that part and on the third hand you have reality. This first and this has connections, nothing, reality and what we need to do, unfortunately, more and more are moving away from each other. The first and the most basic thing is the subject of education. To educate all people and continuously what it is, so here we talk about the waste that we create in our households or households or whatever you want to call them. I'm one of the times I've been terribly tortured by the next, and I'm doing it at home. I was tortured when you were cleaning fish on paper and that paper was dirty from that fish and all together whether the fish and those remains went to biowaste and paper in paper or paper with this going to biowaste. I have to admit, in three places I've asked and got three different answers. However, there is one place where education is done. Look at the little kindergartens, look at the kids in kindergartens, they're really educated and they're doing it willingly. And then, you have a kindergarten and in the city of Zagreb, children do it neatly, delay, teach them from the earliest age. And then a kindergarten teacher or a kindergarten principal has to beg someone to come, drive away, no one to take. And then those kids ask why we did it because where there's a big pile no one's driving. When it comes to waste, you have to look at several layers and in several ways. The first thing is to really educate everyone so that we can deal responsibly with the waste, and that's our obligation to go home. Secondly, it's an obligation to do business. And in creating the conditions that someone who decides to do it can't pay the same as someone who hasn't decided to do it, I'm saying that the charge is done according to the amount of waste we produce. So there are no secrets, we produce about a kilo of waste a day, so that means 300kg is per man's waste per year. Somewhere around 50% of this waste could be separated and continued to be used, recycled and other 50% not. And now, let's say you live in a building where 30% of people do it neatly, they do, and these others say I don't care. But then I have to talk about the city of Zagreb because here I live, pay in the end the same you who do it and the one who doesn't end up paying the same. And this gathering will go to heaven. About 10 years ago, my mom had a cottage in New Vinodolski, my mom came by and told me now we got bags and we're gonna pay for the garbage that goes in the bin, the buckets are chipped, they're gonna weigh. I told my mom, I said something wrong again, and you got it all wrong, that's impossible. It's possible, so it's possible. If possible, it is possible, and we in Novi Vinodolski really get bags, separate and pay according to the amount we produce, which is in the can, it is possible where family houses are, I will not say that anything is possible. So when it comes to waste you first have to see an education that must go at the earliest and then you have to create conditions under which conditions it can be done. And those conditions create who? Local self-government units. Then that waste unit of local self-government something with him needs to be done further. Part of it can be further recovered, part of it can be recycled, part of it you can do, so it's the obligation of the unit of local self-government to move on, to create conditions for you and to keep doing something because, yes, and to think about waste as waste and not as waste, like garbage, which we produce, so it doesn't matter. So now I'm just talking about that waste that's being done in households, I'm not talking about all the other kinds of waste that are just as created and something to be wasted about. Of course there are certain obligations. Of course there is a obligation of the Republic of Croatia. And at this point, we know we won't be able to meet them. A month and a half ago there was a meeting, it was the thematic session of our environmental protection committee. At the thematic session, all 11 directors or directors of the waste management center were invited, and each should have been about to state the condition and what is the situation, what is happening, and what could be done next. State, and there are no secrets, in the town of Zagreb is the following, it now takes 2 to 3 years to reach the project documentation. Back when project documentation is made, when technology is known and everything else takes at least three years to do it. From this moment on, to be the Waste Management Centre, we're not even talking about what kind of technology it takes six years. And there are no secrets. You can't make it any faster or anything, it's just a hodogram, you can't skip that thing at all. It's just a hodogram that needs to go like that. And if the whole of Croatia does the job properly and does not do the city of Zagreb, we will suffer the consequences. Since you always have parts of the policy there, given a stable coalition between the mayors of Zagreb and HDZ, which in this Parliament, I hope they will sit at the table, look at the problem, take care of the problem, so if you should try to get some deadlines, which would be much better than bringing 5 to 12 to a particular problem, and I expect it to be. And so we forget another kind of waste that is extremely important, and that's the part where they asked me about it, so I said waste and wastewater treatment, waste water treatment, purification is the result of all that. This mud in the city of Zagreb is in really large quantities, there are others. What about it? At this point, we're paying for that shit's exports, and instead of getting paid in waste like some other country, we don't make money at waste. Why I said nothing starts with us and nothing starts right now. There, in early 2000, there was therefore a new generation of county spatial plans. No county spatial plan could have been agreed by the ministry if it had no intended place, i.e. the Waste Management Centre. So then there was thinking that how many counties there were that each county had to have its own center, so that's 20+1. It was possible that if the two counties could agree to agree to have one, it was, it was that way at the time. Then we gave it up and now we have 11. This is a moment where we need to look at the real situation. See how many of our really waste management centers in Croatia we need to give up on those who are really in some kind of place. Let's say in Osijek-Baranja County you have a center, they haven't even started project documentation yet. So at this point, it's, this is the moment where we need to do an extra audit because we have a feeling, you know, that the village worse the grandmother is combing. We have the papers, we have the law, we have everything and we get to reality. Equally, there was a project that was quite serious where we went to get rid of wild waste dumps. And then anyone who knows anything about it told us the following. Don't get rid of wild waste dumps until you have a legal dump where people can legally drive because you're going to resuscitate the wild, and if you don't have this, there's going to be a new wild. What happened? That's exactly what We rescheduled the wild waste dumps, spent no little money. I don't have to say that there were some charges, but on the other hand, we haven't established a new one, and we've got new ferocious waste dumps that we're going to do again in the second round. We often act really not to know left-handed what to do right-handed. So this law, we're going to have the law, it's going to be put in a drawer, and it's going to work the way it was. It's not a job. It came, you know, sometimes there comes a time when you have to do something. This is the moment. Really do an excessive analysis, see what it's about, give up those we know about. Because what do the directors of the current centers tell us? There's not enough waste. For what did we do, to be correct and honest to the end? When we were doing project documentation, then of course we'd accumulated the number of inhabitants, gained the amount of waste that would be and reality was something else. I know exactly that, say for devices, wastewater treatment, there wasn't anyone who didn't say that the population would be three times larger than it was because it could get a certain amount of resources. And in all of that, the least it costs when you do something, much more costs maintenance, much more costs the drive. So this is the moment at which I am absolutely certain that my colleagues and colleagues are aware of the situation, the resolution ministry sits down and see and see as far away as possible. And recognize the state that is in Croatia and do too much analysis and tell us we still need so much time. This is how we close our eyes on the fact. Do we have the law? We do. Do we have all the spatial plans in which we have it planned, we have or have certain strategies, we have, and we come into reality then, and reality tells us something completely different. Therefore, we at the GLAS and HSU club will not support this amendment and the addition of the law, and we must be correct and we are correct and say that there is one part that absolutely in the technical part might be acceptable, but what is the essence of the problem we have, we will not solve this law, but the moment has come that we should say we have a problem and start to solve it. Of course I have to touch the communal directors in these last minutes that I have left, you're always in danger when you get into something and when you get in with good intentions and good wishes, and then you can't control it until the end. Communal monks are people who work for individual municipalities and cities. The idea of the communal directors was to take over part of the work, first and foremost related to the construction, that the construction inspection did not have to go for when the neighbor was building a wrong fence or for the wrongly set terraces and then at one point the municipal directors became a rescue solution and the utility directors were doing everything. I don't think at this point the communal monks are inoculating against the flu and they're not doing it, they're not breaking up marriages, I don't think they're doing it either, and they're not working as social workers, and then they're doing something else. They just can't do it, and let's just say they can't do it and we make some too much of a solution that can work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124917	Thank you, too. It is now in front of the Club of Representatives of the HSS Mr Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124918	Dear MPs, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected state secretaries with a co-worker. Here on behalf of the HSS Club, I can say about the amendments and additions to the law on sustainable waste management that these are only technical changes and that we are not solving the problem. It is crucial that we still do not have a sustainable waste management system in place. In fact, most EU members are following this issue in a better way, working on the education of citizens, separating waste at home and addressing the problem of waste management in such a way as to minimise the environmental balance to the least possible extent, while on the other hand, it is economically cost-effective, i.e. for citizens from their home budget, it is acceptable. What do we have in Croatia today? The fact that we have not established a waste management system, the fact that this system of regional waste management centres has not been established, that only 2 have been built, that 5 have not yet been started, or that a large number of our citizens in different units of local self-government are not separated on the domestic waste threshold but are all going as municipal waste, mixed municipal waste and that everything is still being delayed on those dumps that have been declared unconditional so far, that they should have been rehabilitated, that they should have been closed. The fact that we did not use European money to make a quality campaign in the education of citizens is neither a quality campaign nor an action plan, when and how. This system cannot be established unless we explain to citizens in a quality way how to separate waste, what is the benefit to them from it and what is important to the state for the protection of the environment and for the health of citizens and generations behind us. The fact that a small number of units of local self-government do so well, but most of it does not, and even what is the biggest city, the city of Zagreb, there is the worst situation, while in other countries waste is business, while it is fuel or some other element for use, with us it is still municipal waste, mixed municipal waste. And what bothers the citizens the most is that what they separate into different tanks, we come also to drive and drive to that same dump where it's going so far. And the fact that it is not good and that we have not developed this programme and those waste management centres up to the deadline that it was, it is 31.12.2018 and now we are already writing to the European Commission, the Council that they are extending this deadline, it is likely that these days will come or have already come into question what we have done and what actions we have taken and we are likely to get into the situation that will report us to the European Court and that Croatia will pay for the penals because, in a similar model, it has already happened to Italy and to some other European countries. This should be told our citizens that this government and the governments before them that started this process have not done their job and that there is a real danger of Croatia paying for a penalty, and it will be paid by taxpayers. This will take 2-3 years, so this problem will come to some new government. I hope that this new government will be more successful because we should have implemented this citizens' education action plan by now, we should have.../incomprehensible/... that waste must be separated on the house threshold, we had to interest them in a way that they realize that the decommissioning waste will and they will pay the lower price of waste disposal, that this waste will weigh, so according to what they really did delay and pay, but unfortunately we don't have that. And in most of our units of local self-government, they don't even have separate tanks, we haven't yet, we've heard that the competition is already ready and cancelled for the purchase of these tanks. The question is, when will they be obtained? Furthermore, we did not use European money to build sorters, recycling yards, composts, that is all that should be in the system of regional waste management centres. We don't have that. And what do we have? We've got a mess in the field, that we're also those illegal dumps we've re-opened, new wild waste dumps are reopening. You also contributed to HTV last night from Roma settlements where illegal wild dumps are being made, but you have in some other units of local self-government that have no problem solved and wild dumps appear. And there will certainly be more. What else do we have in the field? We have on the ground to start regional waste management centres have been stopped because we are waiting to amend the law, adopt a waste management plan, and now it's going into construction... documentation, performance studies and environmental impact studies. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So by the time the contests are called out, the performers are elected, it won't be over, not until 2020, but by 2025, the secretary of state. Knowing these procedures how it's going and how long it's going, it's obvious we won't have it. So we should tell our citizens that we do not have a system, that they will continue to pay dearly, and that the cost of waste disposal will rise, again on the burden of citizens, and that there is a real danger, that Croatia will pay the penalty due to an undeveloped system. This law also abolishes the agency, i.e., not this, but is followed by this amendment in the law where the Environment and Nature Agency, all EU members, or most of them have this special agency, because as an independent body managed by the waste management system, and we combine it, under the parole of savings. And there's the same number of people left, the same cost, except we're not gonna have agency directors and the board of directors. This is too little cost for the importance of how much the agency needed and it had to set up a system and we don't see a step backwards and we don't follow the trends that are in the EU. Also when it comes to recycling courtyards, we have increased the number of minimum residents for construction from 1500 to 3000, according to us from HSS, we should have remained 1500, and then after education, after starting with separation, collection of waste, through separation on the threshold and similar, gradually increasing the degree of separate collection and recycling of waste. And it should also be said that due to these major changes in laws and operational failures on the ground, additional costs and additional burdens on the fund, which is already economically burdened, are again being passed over to the Environmental Protection Fund. And what has already been said here, that we are protecting certain monopolies, that we have not established a stock exchange, not when it comes to paper, not plastics, or other energy that can be derived from this waste, from mixed waste, we are able to recover, but we are still protecting monopolies, I don't know for whom or why, and I think that this is certainly a major complaint from the European Commission and that it is a real danger to sue us to the European Court and to pay for the penals. And here he would also refer to the problem on the ground, on these several dumps that were to be closed, for example, a dump in the Davor municipality, which should have been used to repair wild dumps in the municipality of Davor and surrounding municipalities, and not to bring waste from other parts of Croatia, and is being brought from Samobor, from other cities. It is not a problem that is being brought, but the question is whether it is given in a quality way of care, whether records are being kept, how much waste has been brought in and whether it has been properly taken care of. What are the impacts on groundwater because 3 km, from that dump, is a water supply for more than 60,000 inhabitants from the municipality of Nova Kapela to the Okucani municipalities, including the town of Nova Gradiška. It is simply unacceptable that this dump has been granted a useful license of 115 thousand tonnes, and according to the information I have from the people who are employed there, that now over 20,000 tonnes of waste has been delayed more than they have a administrative license. So I ask the Ministry and the Secretary of State, if they know this information and what will be done to prevent this further delay, and, among other things, no budget was adopted in the Municipality of Davor and the municipal council was disbanded and yesterday a commissioner was appointed to the government for... Because simply citizens no longer want to endure this arrogance and carelessness for the citizens, not only of Davor municipality, but I said over 60 thousand residents live in the environment and want to have drinking water and want to have a healthy environment and future. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he would mention several times the problem of Piškornica, which was used to draw money, for criminal activities, for which only the former director of the company was responsible, and many looked through their fingers and silenced even though they knew what was going on there, and the citizens of the surrounding municipalities asked how much the amount was projected there. Is it true that this will be much more than announced when the decision on the establishment of this centre was made and what the quality of the draining water around the streams and other canals appears around the dump site. Some analyses have been made, which say, that the percentage of heavy metals and other harmful substances has already been increased. I don't think that both the ministry and the competent inspectors have done their job to the end and to protect certain powers in that matter. And here, we in the HSS can't support this law, because I'm saying it's just technical changes, and the system isn't built, the real danger is that a higher price will be paid by citizens. We hear now and in the amendments to the law that the units of local self-government, which has been delayed in the area of the second unit of local self-government, will have to pay what was not in the previous law, which has not been said in making a decision on the construction of regional self-government, so now it has to go back to the municipal councils, to the county councils to accept and it will slow down this construction process further, and it is certain that the only message that the government must take this job seriously and resolutely, that it must be our first job in order for citizens to have a quality system, to protect the environments in order not to pay for the penals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124919	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Rechimer Varda's turn in front of the Labour and Solidarity Party's Club of Representatives, Reformists and Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124920	.../The speaker disfellowshipped/... Secretary of State with an assistant, colleague and colleague, at one o'clock is supposed to take a break for a free word, so I'll just take so much time not to take away your precious time for a free word. In fact, we have considered the whole proposal of the Law, amending and supplementing the Law, we have certain observations, thinking about it. However, we have handed over 3 amendments to the State Secretary, so I would ask you to consider them because this will depend on the position of the Labour and Solidarity Party Club and the Independent Representatives on the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law, but I would ask you, therefore, to shorten the full debate, that in the final address, in order to avoid any doubt and doubt which might arise in the application of this Act, given that this Law, as well as the Community Waste Management Regulation, is a prescribed obligation for citizens to collect their municipal waste, among other things, separately and to teach in the recycling yards. Whether the transport of this waste to a recycling yard is subject to a ban on the transport of waste to a natural person and whether, in that case, the payment problem, the transport of that municipal waste to a recycling yard, lies on the burden of the citizens. This is what I would like to ask in the final address, for the sake of the public and citizens that we must also educate on the final line to collect waste in the household separately and to take this municipal waste to the recycling yard, it would be good to be concrete in the final address, and finally again, our position on the amendment proposal and the addition of the Law will also depend on the proposal of our 3 Amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124921	Thank you, too. We move to deliver a position on behalf of the club of representatives and independent representatives. The first in line is in front of the Living Wall, the Living Wall Club and SNAGA, Mr Branimir Bunjac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124922	Thank you very much, Deputy Prime Minister. Vice President of the Parliament, I apologize, dear colleagues and colleagues, honored guests. These days we see the first results of so-called. Maric's tax reform came into effect on 1 January. At the end of last year, this, called reform, presented itself to us as something very successful, will lead to a significant decrease in prices, especially food, due to the introduction of rates, between VAT rates. The average Croatian family was said to save around 900,00 kn per year. Even during the debate in the Parliament, we warned that something like this would not happen because any savings would be poured into the salesman's pocket, mostly large foreign-owned trade chains, and this is now being shown as true. Instead of meat, fish, vegetables and cheap fruit, prices remained the same, not only remained the same, but the price of vegetables collected by 5%. So there's no savings, but at the same time, there's some very high-stakes. The collection of vegetables is not the only addition that took place in 2019 because we also have the collection of cigarettes and alcohol, which we can accept in some ways, but there is no excuse for the export of waste in certain cities and counties to rise by as much as 300%. Only the collection of exports erases all the effects of Maric's tax reform just when it is successful and not successful. In addition, Minister Ćoric announces the 1 April gas collection for 10%, which will deprive families of an additional 700,00 kn from home budgets, which is simply unacceptable. In addition, they collect milk and children’s juices for 0.62 kn or approximately 10% due to the new compensation imposed on plastic packaging. It should be warned that, according to the analysis of the Economic Institute, 66% of citizens are permanently or occasionally late to pay for directors, 54% of citizens have spoken to one of the institutions for help, and half of the citizens have to work extra hard to survive the month, and even 68% of citizens borrow money every month to survive. It is important, therefore, to say the following, that Croatian citizens cannot stand new gatherings. For this reason, we must conclude that this tax reform was in fact another citizen fraud with the aim of buying time, just as all other reforms were, such as the write-off of debts that are not available, the change in the executive law that stands in place, the reduction in VAT rates to 23% that did not occur, or will happen, the purchase of planes that protect us and do not exist, the purchase of INAs from MOL, and we see that MOL buys INAs, etc. The work of this government falls on all possible segments and it is time to open your eyes to all those who are not yet. The government not only does not solve the problems, it keeps creating new ones, and Croatian citizens are living more and more miserablely, without any real dignity, contrary to the numerous promises and statements we have been hearing lately. The Republic of Croatia needs deep and concrete, real changes, and now it is quite clear that from the HDZ government and their satellites we will not experience it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124923	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn to speak for HSS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124924	Thank you, dear Vice President. On behalf of the HSS Club, I would say three things and these are the land and mirror companies of Agrokora and the problem of the Sisak refinery. We're all witnessing what's going on, here's what my predecessors say this government is doing, there's something going on under the table all the time, and in this case, Agrokor, and in the end, in the case of Croatian state agricultural land of nearly 33,000 hectares. The land should be taken over by Eisele, which was founded in Croatia on 12.6.2018. The tabular statement from which all the countries in the concession and lease move to Eisele was made on 20.6.2018 and the Agrekor settlement was voted 4.7 and the court confirmed it only 26.10. It's obvious from this that everything is as premeditated as the whole case of Agrocora with lex Agrokora as the basis of all of this. It is unfortunate that after all, there is land for which no rent has been paid, while there has been in Agrokor and the old contract signed by Pero Cobankovic, who today is peeling potatoes or peeling, there should have been contracts for the use of state agricultural land in the Agrokora system not for all but for this part for which no rent has been paid. Unfortunately, this has not occurred because we know the status of Agrokor in all governments so far, and that is why it is happening now that a foreign company that is registered in the Netherlands, which has only one shareholder, means one owner will take over the highest quality agricultural land in Croatia. That's what we've been warning about for years, and that's what's happening right now. And to end, we are witnessing that Minister Tolusic is calling on the municipality's head of the municipality whose part of the land is located and in some ways indirectly forcing them to sign the contract annex. The good thing about the bad Agricultural Land Act recently brought by HDZ is that the mayors and mayors have to sign these contract annexes, and that's why they have to force them to do so. I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia why this agricultural land was not obtained by a Croatian man, a Croatian peasant, Croatian families who might have stayed in Croatia if they had received agricultural land that the foreigners would receive at the small door. The second topic is the Sisak Refinery, which has been discussed for many years and has finally come to the finish to close the Sisak Refinery. All HDZs were drilling into their chests and we spoke against the closure of the Refinery, so Minister Maric said in Sisak 2016 at a pre-election rally before we would stop dealing with politics rather than allow the closure of the Refinery. Here's what I don't see. He's done politics. Mayor Žinić, who is ruling in the poorest county in the Republic of Croatia on his posters, has put up a bid to protect the Sisak oil refinery and preserve jobs. Today he no longer advocates it, he stands for it today, as he says recently I would like the refinery to survive in any form. But it's clear to me that he has to listen to his HDZ commanders. From this HDZ, which said it would buy the INA, would not allow the closure of the Sisak Rafinery, where all possible excuses were sought as to how this decision is now justified and upgraded to close however, the Sisak Refinery. Says the mayor of Sisak-Moslavina, I'm with the workers. They've been lying to this people from the very beginning and they knew in advance what they would agree to. The only industrial plant left to operate in Sisak is the refinery, and this will shut it down, and Sisak will simply become a dead city. This is the responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the HDZ, who sold the INA to MOL during Ivo Sanader and those who continued after that to the MOL and Hungarians and allowed them to do whatever they wanted in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124925	Thank you, too. Now, as an independent representative, Mr. Zeljko Glasnovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124926	Dear colleagues and colleagues, here's another storm in the teapot today. We saw a little incident yesterday when it was that, I'm sure Agent Bulj has a good left hook and if something had happened, then we'd be even more, all night watching that incident. How someone advertises to the cocta on the johns and has a good right-hand direct. Here's a question, rhetorical question, is in Croatia, is the right to the truth even fundamentally human right? Of course not in Croatian media space. This was proved this morning at a press conference of our representative Zekanovic and Ruža Tomasic from the European Parliament when suddenly, when they were interrupted, the press conference was interrupted and when I asked one question, as a parliamentary representative, which is my right, 50 pushups... But forgot, interrupted, I couldn't as a parliamentary representative ask a question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then she became a hack at me, they chased me around, one of them chased me around with a cell phone, she had a face, I was startled, she was pushing her cell phone in my face, she looked like Milka Planec, I thought I was supposed to do an exorcism, but I didn't have holy water. Here, what bothers them? What bothers these Croatian media,... And the others are getting in the way of this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Key questions. They're dealing with kim cardasian's buttocks. I was asked by one, the only thing one of those independent televisions asked me was Glasnović, do you think this is the most beautiful government yet? I almost lost my mind. They're interested, they're not interested in lustration in the opposite direction, war damages, roots of privatisation and conversion, who works in their press houses, who pays them, had code names and they live off this country, this organism. Unfortunately, this is the autoimmune disease that Croatia suffers from. Here, hate speech, there sits a representative who said sits there on my left, who said they didn't finish the job in '45. Sir, where women and children are buried, they live in tunnels, no one. says Mate Kapovic, Tito Jugend new, says the Bleiburg serem, forgive the expression, who remembers that model Luka Modric hung there in Split, noose around the neck, no one, no one bothers them the truth. The truth bothers you. We know who this prince of lies is and God is true, it bothers them, they proved it today. So, what do we have now? We have in the media space, most of all, it's an honor, left the HTV and the team, and the rest are the TV Adriatic, and I have to commend them, but I see fear in the eyes of those journalists, fear. Censors, autocensorship, that deep-seated fear that still exists in these areas. That's what they're afraid of, there they're afraid of... They're afraid to shake my hand. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Some heads, they're okay. I am the greatest defender of freedom of the media and I will always represent all journalists who speak the truth, I have always been against censorship and self-censorship, I will help you and you are me, I feel in Croatia as a Christian in the Soviet Union in 1929. I am in media gulag, I don't care, but these heads, what are they looking at there? They look, they run who, it's interesting in the Croatian media space, Big Brothers, Mister perfect, this, this, they're actually this kind of media called not yellow press but ambulance runners, they're running after the ambulances to see there if the massacred body, with us all black chronicles. I was in Guatemala, Honduras, Salvador has three murders a day, it's not on the front page, we have everything from F16 to all there is a black chronicle and you thought we lived there in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil where we have 63,000 murders every year. So I'm the biggest advocate of media freedom, but you won't hear the truth from... and former agitpropers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124927	Thank you very much, you've made yourself clear. Now it's Mr. Bull's turn outside the bridge club of independent lists, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124928	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues, the time to say that everything that happens in the Croatian Parliament is the cause of the nervousness of the Croatian government and the HDZ that becomes nervous about all promises, less important to them relations with any international communities, states, they are concerned that they have not fulfilled their promises that they have made by walking the Republic of Croatia both for local elections and for parliamentary elections. I hold a paper in front of me, an article when there was an election campaign where Prime Minister Plenkovic was in Dalmatinska Zagor's last day in Dalmatinska, I see these numerous ministers, so I see here Boban, in Cetitska, Boban and Plenkovic in Cetitska krajina, the fast road from Dugopolje to Sinja is a key infrastructure project which is an absolute lie. Afterwards, he is the key but they forgot the Dalmatian Zagora, they promised Ravca-Drvenik, to connect our islands with Zagora, so they will have protests in Vrgorec where all the mayors and mayors from the coast and islands will also from Vrgorac and all of us from the Dalmatian mountain, publicly show our government's carelessness towards the Dalmatian Zagora. I'm absolutely interested in this space except in pre-election time. For five years, the Ravca-Drvenik tunnel has been opened. Also this fast road of Sinj-Krizice-Kukuzovac where the Cetinska province, I repeat, is larger by the number of residents than Ličko-Senj County. Bigger territory than Međimurje County. Besides the promise absolutely nothing moves, which is why we have the defeating results. 26 000 people, 26 451 residents left the mountain in the period from 2011 on the list until 2016, it is a huge number of people. That's the whole town of Sinj where he moved out of the Dalmatian mountain. And the worst part is, demographic indicators are right where they stand, the mayor and the chiefs go to the ministers. The biggest demographic decline is in the town of Trilj, the city of ghosts and regularly are the ministers of the economy, they promise, they give footsteps, they asphalt, we even have to take out a sample of asphalt, you see exactly election cycles, but everything that's important for the development of the Dalmatian mountain, they haven't done anything at all. It's the same thing with Knin. It's not traffic-related. It's not highway-related. It's isolated. The city is at a minimum of population and will be worse. We have a hospital, a veteran hospital where we have a pool where they promised to build, where we have a treatment pool that should be arranged for 5 million kunas, I gave the amendment, they didn't accept it, and while in Split there are crowds, in Sibenik, in the KBCs. We don't have doctors at the Knin hospital, and we could unload part of the fire at the Knin hospital, but they don't want it. They don't want to. They're not opening the store. Not only do you not open jobs, I'm sorry there are no colleagues from the HDZ who march down there when there's an alka and the Great Lady and feast and feast and it's all from.../incomprehensible/... the accounts remain behind them. We are kind, we invite you all, but the fact is that from this bench is on my representative's question at the current hour in the 4th month. Prime Minister Plenkovic, whether the workers of the Dalmatian state will give up their claims for free, will be enslaved at the time when the Istanbul Convention was adopted, all this is about women. It's all about women, and so is Dalmatia. He promised that I would find a way with local self-government to give up these claims and taxes, and that workers would get their own money. You know what he did? Nothing. Because he doesn't care, all he cares about is how to get to Brussels and how to listen to Merkelica, Junker, Tusk and all the others. Thank you. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Bull.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124929	Mr. Bull, no, you can stay because now it's your turn because you have individual ones there yet you have to go there, individual debate, you can continue now directly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124930	I'm going to have a separate debate just because I have to ask, it's about the waste management center, it's about municipal waste, first of all, I'd like to ask the secretary to tell us what the calculations are, what the prices are going to be, you say, you're transferring to local garbage transportation self-government. Which is why he didn't do, which is why these big ones like.../incomprehensible/... waste management centres where money is delayed to large waste dumps because this waste will do huge damages as well as the waste management centre in Lečevica, in the heart of the Dalmatian mountain, where it's scientifically proven that we have, that underwater rivers that connect to underground rivers, which connect Jadrom, with Cetin, where it feeds over a million users and households, which is why in the Dalmatian Zagora in the karst area, instead of the Law on the Protection of Break, Water Resources, you big waste dump in the middle of the Dalmatian mountain. It's even connected to the Lithuanian field over there with yours, where my colleague Shuker came from. Yeah, it's connected. And that's.../incomprehensible. And that's exactly what the waste disposal center is. It's not funny. Our resource is water. More Cetina casts into the Cetina spring in one day of water than all the springs in Israel in five years. It's another thing that we don't use, that we give concessions to foreigners, foreign companies water supply. It's a different story now, but the fact is that waste is money. That we need sorters, separations in front of houses, schools, kindergartens to train children and that's money. Breaking up the waste. It's money, it's jobs and it's cheaper garbage. And not you, a bunch of garbage, now you've evicted the Dalmatian Zagora, and now you're in the heart of the Dalmatian Burn, the waste management center. A few months ago I'm called Paga Shepherds, I'm going to tell the shepherd, or as a colleague from HDZ says, from a democratic party, a choban. They call me, I came in there, and it's working exactly, so the waste collection center, the waste collection station, the cargo station, so that you don't run that waste off that loading station from Pag. So, from one place they're going to be collected in one place just a few hundred meters from the sea and where we have 22 OPGs that grow Pag sheep, produce Pag cheese, like a brand, and right here they found, ecologically, which is important because it's a brand, not only the island of Pag, but also Croatian and they just found you a cargo station. So are we protecting sustainable development here? And you people, the O.P.G.s are fighting. There are 22,000 sheep in that area of Pag. People live on it, it's a brand of Croatian. We must encourage organic production and breeding of sheep. We have to encourage it. It's not just enough, gentlemen of the HDZ elections to eat both lambs and sheep and the whole herd to get votes, we need to encourage our people on Pag to produce our brand, not the whole flock of sheep in the elections and put it off to get votes and put waste there. That's embarrassing. I've been with these people. Well, people don't have the tools to fight. The mayor is against them. The mayor. The mayor. All against these people. Why are you against these shepherds or as you told me, what am I proud of, shepherd? Why, gentlemen of the HDZ? What's the Secretary of State for? Which is why you allow it to be a overloaded cell in the middle of the meadows where, the stingy meadows where the healing plants are, where the sheep's paška is looking, it's a stoner. Why the loading station? People can't fight it. Which is why it still costs you.../incomprehensible... a hill in Biljani Donji where people of older populations, mostly Serbian nationalities, respected secretaries, and I regularly go to these people. Their wells because they don't have water lines are black from that cost, industrial. Nobody moves their fingers. I was talking here. Written by the European Commission said they'd sue you, the Republic of Croatia, that cancerous is that waste. Don't worry anyone. Yeah, they say he was Milorad Pupovac because his village was close when the election was. That he visited those people. Because he needed voices. That's how you fight for national minorities. You don't care about those people. I live with these people, I live with these people, you didn't visit them. I've been telling you about this problem for a year and a half, about the black hill. Just you. To you who are.../incomprehensible... from the national minorities and you do not move your finger. You protect interesting lobbys don't protect these people, that poor woman, who takes care of herself, you don't care about shepherds, nor about the OPGs, nor about organic production, you don't care, you care about major strategic projects that will save the energy progress of the Republic of Croatia. The Peruca thermal power plant, in the wake of the largest drinking water pool, 500 million liters, clean drinking water, without any chemical processes, can drink and give sources to foreign investors, foreign companies to draw our water, export it to other countries and that they have profit. So let's protect these national interests, not waste in the middle of the Dalmatian Zagora. So you see what's on Mariscina. Here is a colleague, who is szogri, who knows better what people have problems, from these parts, in the middle of Dalmatia Zagor, where speciologists say the caves are connected to the underground rivers, and these rivers with the river Cetina, Jadro, which already has a problem with drinking water in the Adriatic, water is clouded, there are reasons, and at the same time, my fellow citizen from the village of Radusic made and held a herd of goats, thought OPG familyly make a mini cheese and could not get a license used to a mini cheese. You know why? That's why they said that the Surritka could make it to the river Jadra, which is from Sinj far away from the CGO. Let's make sorters, hire people, find a profession, pay people who do it with other countries, you don't know how to do it, the Ministry can't do it, does it, would it? So, I guess there are people all over the world and our experts who went outside, I guess they know how to make these projects. In education, direct money to educate people on waste separation, how to charge, how technology works, how new jobs, everything you touch, do in the interest of lobbys, everything, from sortery to Pag, from sortery to Pag which is... I'm sorry, which is right in the middle of the meadow where it depends on the existence of people who do shepherding and produce our paška cheese, which is why we buy paška cheese produced in Italy or I don't know where, who hasn't seen Pag, but has the label Pag cheese. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe you don't work for those lobbies? Instead of encouraging, it's our brand, it's our history, it's our Pag lace, and so it's up to you in the Dalmatian Zagori di to encourage livestock, where there's always been cattle farming, where they've always been shepherds, as my colleague from HDZ said, is that an insult to them. And our Luka Modrić was also a shepherd in this area, Meštrović and many other famous people, but this is clearly not the same as the shepherds in our democratic option, but the gentlemen of the pre-election campaigns have been eaten all the herds, you have left villages and no people and no sheep and there are no more shepherds and that is the problem of Croatian politics, but we import foreign products, while in us a pile of waste and work exclusively for the waste mafia. I'd like to ask you once again, secretary, stop the devastation of the ecological, Dalmatian Zagora, our islands, Biljana, Paška cheese, stop and try to destroy our most important resource, which is water, and that's with this... Thank you very much. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124931	Thank you, Agent Buljo. We continue with an individual debate, the next colleague of Anka Mrak Taritash, please welcome colleague Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124932	Thank you very much, Vice-President of HS, Your Honor, Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. When I was listening to my colleague Bulja, I was thinking that I would continue with the lambs or the cheese in the debate, but I would return to the subject of the waste. So, it's nothing, we have sometimes when we're discussing here at the Assembly, I feel like we're acting like things started with us. When it comes to waste, you should look at the experiences of some other countries, some other environments, some other cities, because that's what people have already been through. And we, I get the feeling that we often go after those first kittens throw themselves in the water, so let's go, that system of failures and attempts. I still can't understand why we're not taking some options and some variations that are already working. So it can't be the same option and the same variant when we talk about waste and problems in family homes, in multiple residential buildings, it can't be the same variant and the same option in small towns, in municipalities, so somewhere you can simply have some closed environment where some things can work. An example of the island of Krk is an example of how this can be solved. But in this regard, the island of Krk has another problem, so it has that problem of normal functioning, it solves it in a really good way, but it has a problem in summer when it has an increase in population, when it has an increased number of people and in summer it has to solve it in a different way. Imagine, for example, if you live in a residential building, you don't have a balcony, and you have to recycle. Where are you going to do that? In the bathroom? You're gonna close one room? So, what, it's a sequel in a certain way from the discussion that I was speaking on behalf of the pay phone club. So you on the one hand have the papers that are done properly. We will also have a law that is correct and when you compare it with some other laws that are in some other countries is correct, but then we come to reality. Your reality is what you can, now that you're going home, if you're going on foot, see. See in the center of the city of Zagreb, next to the halls of buckets that are packed, which are driven possibly or are driven, to be honest, twice a week. Take a look at the little green islands that are overcrowded with it all together, and the rescue solution offered by the Mayor of Zagreb will buy more trucks, and employ more people. Every superfluous city and overrun the country when it began to deal with the problem of waste, it earned money at the waste. It's been making money, and we have different models. They have cities, so, I'm all, I'm always telling the story, 20 years ago my husband worked in Germany, I went down for the weekend, and I went down to throw the trash in the container, the trash in the container, I'm deliberately talking, I had a bag, and from the next window my wife was yelling at me, and I'm this crazy, and I mean, what this woman is yelling, I'm having a bag, I'm wrapped up, I'm throwing it there, I'm throwing it in the wrong container, a container that didn't belong to the entrance where my husband lived, but next door. So that was 20 years ago. Now, as democracy is taught, as some other things are taught, and things about the relationship to waste are being learned, we have to be aware, and we, we've skipped some steps and we're coming up with something else. It's a good thing we didn't do some things, but we just have to face the truth. We had an interesting thematic session of the City Assembly, I am also a representative in the City Assembly, about a year ago, which was on cages where waste cans will be placed in the city of Zagreb. And then, of course, I'm thinking in pictures and somehow I'm trying to tell you in pictures, imagine now that you're coming down to Mesnik and coming down to Ilica, and all over this cage, and in these cages of buckets, and now, just that one, those buckets and that cage, can unlock whoever has the right to put their waste in that bin. So, but also, parallel to that, when we discussed it, the town of Vodice, I read an article in Free Dalmatia, where the town of Vodice got it, there's usually a former mayor of the city of Vodice, got containers that are chipped, chipped like a hotel room entry, you got a card, you throw in your container chipped. So, you can see everything, you already know, already some of those first kittens have been thrown into the water, and we're still wandering and we're thinking about what we're going to do and we're going to have big stories about what we're going to do and how we're going to do. So, there's one way to think about it. It's one story. Another story, where'd you get that junk? What's going on behind that junk, where he's driving, what's going on with him? We have one company, and it would be absolutely incorrect for me to mention it, which has the technology it exports out, for sorters, where they are, so they go, they're endless tape, they're unloading waste, and people have to separate it, because there's not a single device or robot that's going to separate it, and then when you do it, sort it, then you're still working with that thing. And something that we all run away from as a devil from incense, so you produce waste, whether it's in a household or somewhere else, you can recover, part you can recycle, part you can, but you'll never get to zero, you'll get to one percent. What are you gonna do with what happens in the end? And when someone tells the Energan, they all get up on their backs. Part of it is for energy use, and now take the city of Zagreb, which has a heat, where Novi Zagreb is heating up on the heat and that in that heat you have one part that would be for energy use and that way you used it, and thus you reduced the cost of waste in the city of Zagreb. By waste, we, I'm absolutely sure we'll talk not only within this law, but also in some other laws, probably what we're talking about in the free debate, and we'll talk about for one reason, when you don't solve something systematically, then systematically this problem welcomes you. And then you can't solve it in five minutes, and then you're trying to solve it in some other way, and then you find, then it's everybody's fault, just not you who didn't do it. So, uh... I have to refer to the city of Zagreb, I live in the city of Zagreb, so I have this comedy that I am also a representative in the town hall, so I can compare two things, I often know from a pay phone in the city of Zagreb to tell my people, but there is a part of Croatia where it works, there are some municipalities and cities that work. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then I'm told, yes, but it's all together less than the city of Zagreb, the city of Zagreb you can never see as one whole, they have family houses, and the Upper City, and multi-state houses, and something else, but it will be a special topic and should certainly be a special topic, but what we have a chance to see, that our citizens in Croatia, while I'm really not talking about the city of Zagreb, I'm talking about some other parts, very insolently about the Regulation that was created under the Law. The regulation that was said to define the price of waste and what we should achieve, and what would actually be a motive to really pay, that each of us pays by the amount of waste we produce, because it's the only motive, that's one of, you have one motive that you're environmental, so I'm not going to take a plastic bag at the store anymore and when I go buy bread, I say no, no, don't give me a plastic bag, because I don't want to have it at all at home, but always is, money is always motive. So if you work at home responsibly and produce less waste, then it's your turn to pay the waste according to the amount you produce, not the area of the apartment or the number of people who are, or the volume that you're going to report to you and the number of transportation that's going to be. So it's about one serious problem, all of what we're saying and whether on behalf of the club and individually this law, is this law has technically solved the part that it went to, but it's a fundamental problem, but you know what when you draw a line, who ultimately pays, citizens. Whether directly through your accounts or indirectly through your calculations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124933	We have five replicas on your display, a colleague of the Grbin, a colleague of Bulj, a colleague of Kovač, a colleague of Veligaj, a colleague of Topolko. The first is a colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, my esteemed colleagues in July made a new decision on waste collection. What is the result in half of the city is not implemented, for example. in the part of the city where I live, and where I spend my time is not being spent properly. Often separately collected waste ends up in a joint truck, the citizens are denied part of their rights, etc. In Zagreb, he made a decision on waste collection in January, it is not being implemented at all. The citizen's basic notification of how the new decision to apply has not been made. However, what Pula and Zagreb share, Pula has already raised the price, Zagreb will obviously do so. The price is rising, and what should be implemented by law and by decision is not implemented. And that we just have a dead letter on paper that we've been arguing about all morning in the assembly. Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124935	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124936	Comrade Grbin, this really isn't the only exception and this isn't the only law where we have a law that you can technically correct, you have some dilemmas which and how, you have then take spatial plans, there's no spatial plan that doesn't have any or center or has a planned and recycling yard and loading stations, you have strategies and then you have a reality. We're here in the assembly talking about reality, and the reality is that you really drive waste less often and it's more expensive. And now you're wondering why and you're wondering where it went wrong and why it happened because then you take some countries or some other cities that are comparable, so you don't take the incomparable and then they say we're doing it, that and that. Why aren't we working? There's a citizen, who doesn't even work, who chooses in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124937	Next is my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124938	Mr. Dark, to sign everything you've said, I think it should be in reality, and you're talking about reality, so I've been talking about the reality that there's going to be a overload station right where the OPGs and where meadows keep their sheep's paws the most, I've been in reality with those people who are protesting, who are powerless because they've been threatened by the existence and production of Pag cheese and pasha lamb. Which is why we're doing this to these people, which is why we're doing so many loading stations to.../incomprehensible/... to some waste management centers, and here we're basically throwing money away, poisoning islands as well. the environment is not sustainable development. It's very important this story with Pag, so here's the endangered sustainable development with that cargo station in the middle of the field where it's pasture to these sheep. It's very important, it's a connection. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124939	Answer me. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124940	Thank you very much, colleague Bulj, if I were to tell you all the unreasonable decisions that I had the opportunity to see, you often had a feeling like I was dreaming. When someone decides to plan and do somewhere where you don't need to be an expert on it, you don't need to be a water expert, you don't need to be a space planner, you don't need to be an architect, you don't need to have, you can only have a healthy mind and ask why you planned it here that's absolutely out of your mind, that's what you're talking about. You're saying there are certain potentials you don't need to disrupt. I can tell you, I've been working a long time and now I'm good at life to better remember what was 20 or 30 years ago than what was yesterday, although I remember what was yesterday, the day before yesterday because it was interesting. But all the wrong decisions I've seen, decisions you couldn't make, so sometimes you get this feeling. That common sense is somewhere else. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124941	Thank you, next replica of my colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124942	I thank you, so here I agree with my colleague for saying in her statement that it's not the same waste disposal everywhere and that every unit of local self-government hasn't gone as far as separation, so you have in the north cities like Chakovec who really went far and then that regulation on management with municipal waste that we had to comply with by the end of 2018. In particular, by 1.11.2018 this was a new impose on our citizens. Prices had to go up to bring them together, and not all of Croatia in this respect went far the same. At the same time this law, what I warned the secretary of state did not give me answers, we have here in Article 14 in particular where the obligation to apply the same price of treatment taken over mixed municipal waste per tonne for all donors in public services, the collection of mixed municipal waste, and it is not the same when you include transport whether it is driven from a remote village a mile or 50 kilometers away and that price should be included. And those costs need to be accounted for. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124943	Replication response, colleague of the Dark Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124944	Thank you very much, colleague Kovac just like that, we Croatia is specific and it is really specific not only in this form of father bird or muffin, but it is specific, let's say we are in two climate zones. We, therefore, had a mainland Croatia we have Dalmatian Croatia, according to various groundwaters in general we have this part that is a piece of junk that works differently, all of this needs to be taken into account. And when it comes to this particular one and the law, and it's a specific law, there's no cookbook, there's no cookbook that's going to tell you I don't know two eggs and this and then you're going to get a little better or a little bit worse, then you're going to get the diametric opposite stuff and we need to take care of it. And when we do the law because we're a deep-centralized country, no matter what we want, we do the law with a cook who's worth everything. Well, he can't, so, and that's then and then, of course, the problem goes to the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124945	Thank you. The next replica of my colleague, Vgligaj Marko, please welcome fellow Vesligaj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124946	Thank you, Vice President. So here, colleague Mrak Taritash, I will also point out once again that you have well noticed this one layer of plasticity that exists at the level of the Republic of Croatia in waste management and I can say, here, from the point of view of the unit leaders of local self-government, that the vast majority of them are, of course, always trying to ensure that the waste disposal service is as low as possible for citizens and that is something that certainly connects everything. Now, you'd expect the Ministry, you'd expect the Fund to be your partner, to ensure a lower price of service for our citizens. We had a case last year that after a public call that included the purchase of composters, after decisions received by the Fund towards local self-government units, information comes out that there are no more funds. Why am I saying that? Through the purchase of these composters, the price of the transport service could be significantly reduced waste for our citizens [[Intruder: Thank you]] pays a higher price. [[Agreement: Thank you, fellow Squirt]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124947	Comrade Dark Tarritash, please welcome your reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124948	Thank you very much. My fellow Weldergay, you may be, I suppose it wasn't an accident, but you were deliberately talking about a partnership. So we are a deeply centralised country, and decisions are made at the level of the State or at the level of the Ministry, you are being implemented by the mayors or mayors. And you're in trouble, chiefs and mayors because no matter what the citizens end up paying, if they don't pay through the bill, they'll pay because you'll have to do some other things. And there is actually a meaning of partnership, where the central state should therefore be a partner to its chiefs and its mayors, and I would stress here that it should be a partner regardless of party membership and whether the difference between who is in the state of power and who is in power in each municipality and city, and that is not the case with us. And you can see that on this side of this House it's you who are from the local authorities, who are important, and colleagues from the HDZ There are a lot of mayors and mayors [[Intruder: Thank you]] There's not one left. [[Intruder: Collars]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124949	Thank you, colleagues. And the final debate, i.e. The last replica of your presentation, colleague Bernarda Topolko, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124950	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you said that the separation of waste is being learned, taught, we from the north know very well. Our children are already collecting newspaper paper in kindergarten, normally everything that belongs to paper. Children in elementary schools also collect paper. From that part are also financed by their excursions. We in Međimurje, most of Međimurje, separate the waste into bags, bins, household waste, biowaste, metal, for plastics, for tetrapac, glass, maybe I forgot something. It looks like that in your backyard, one garbage room. In any case, it is commendable and should be studied, even our local TV house publishes an ad to which trash is thrown and you see that from children to Elderly Sort [[Intruder: Thank you...]] It's trash. [[Intruder:... you colleagues]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124951	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124952	My colleague Topolko, I can fully agree with you and I said that the Republic of Croatia is different and, yes, I mentioned Krk because it was a fresh example to me which, but very often I mention the northern part of the Republic of Croatia, especially Međimurje, let's say the Prelog or some of those cities which are, Varazdinska will not, which are an example of how it is done. I absolutely agree to study and, let's just say, when I spoke on behalf of the club, I talked about Zagreb kindergartens, and I talked to some principals who said they were the scariest when kids do it all, then they put it in the bin and they call someone to come for paper and nobody comes for paper. And it's the wrong message, but it's learning. The children will learn that and we will learn it very quickly, someone because of what they want, and someone because it will be cheaper, but it simply has to be talked about, and this is one of the places to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124953	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate and last or last in an individual debate on the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Sustainable Waste Management Act is colleague Stjepan Kovac, please welcome colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124954	Thank you. Well, here I have written down a few of these articles that I would like to talk about, I hope the secretary of state will listen to me and that they will do something about it before the law is passed. So he's got an ankle. 8. The final proposal of the Law, I am interested in why the delivery of the Annual Report on the Implementation of the Plan for the previous calendar year in the county, became an obligation of the executive body, instead of a provision so far, that it was a unit of local self-government, which I said before that we all have under the communal companies doing these jobs, I don't see why this changes to the head instead of to the local self-government unit, so I suggest that it remains as it has been until now whether it is still the obligation of the local self-government unit or to answer me why you specifically changed it to be the obligation of the executive body. Then, you have an art. 14. The final proposal of the Law, instead of the obligation of the units of local self-government to ensure the provision of certain services in its field, is again attributed to the obligation of the mayor and the mayor, which has led to this change, since it is clear that the provision of these transactions in the field of local self-government units will be dealt with by the administrative bodies of local self-government and commercial companies, again mentioned in that article, and that Article 5 refers to the obligation to apply the same price of processing of mixed municipal waste per tonne for all public service providers, the collection of mixed municipal waste and biodegradable municipal waste. That price would certainly require transportation, which I have already said several times because it is not the same transport from one km or much more. And according to that, I immediately believe that the total price should be reduced because I believe that you were taking what, in one bucket, to say that, in the dwarves all and by that formula, that price should then already be taken immediately with this sort of dispatch and reduced. The future waste management centres shall not be subject to any price regulation procedure at the entrance to the centre, namely, they will freely define entry prices for waste reception, which will represent a significant cost to public service providers in business and will reflect at the price of the public service of collecting mixed municipal waste. Since the price of collection of mixed municipal waste is subject to the procedure for the prior consent of the local self-government unit executive authority in the same way should also be determined by the procedure for the adoption of waste reception prices into waste management centres. In particular, this means that provisions should be introduced into the law to read: The waste management centre is required before the price list is applied, price changes should obtain the consent of the unit executives of local self-government to which the price is concerned. The implementing bodies of the units of local self-government shall be made clear of the application for price consent, i.e. within 15 days of receipt of the request. If most executive bodies of local self-government issues the requested consent of the Waste Management Centre, it shall be authorised to change the price, i.e. the price. And not that we've given them to condition the monopolies that suit them, you've seen how this reflected and how our Pishkornica and its director worked, how it ended in an infamous manner, so I'm afraid there's no other center on the threshold of that, similar or worse. This is the case with Article 17 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The final draft of the law although Konjstun and Mariština are two, the only two completed for the time being from the intended 13 centres, identified as waste management centres that operate in a non-erable manner, instead of taking the line of removal of those centres, let's remain on the legal line of forming the remaining 11 centres, knowing in advance that they will not be profitable. Because when you read a number of newspaper articles about Marine and Konistun you see that they are not profitable, there is also our Piškornica, so it is clear to all that the price of waste in the disposal of waste in the centres will mean an increase in the price of waste disposal services, which will be a problem for the citizens, and of course the criticism will again be addressed to local self-government units, or mayors and mayors, and you will again say as you said this morning that the mayors have raised the price of waste on an arbitrary basis, and that is not true. We raised her because we were in harmony with that provision brought by this government, this government. I'm also afraid they wouldn't make a mistake with this law, because when the minister, after the law was passed, that decision on the management of municipal waste was in Međimurje, he himself said he was wrong because he didn't look at the specificities of Međimurje, who, as far as he's going, who wasn't, but everything was working out just the same for all the formulas, and there was a problem. It's been said that it's going to change, it hasn't changed. Today it is, going to the burden of our citizens, unfortunately, and I'm afraid that we would not bring this law again, think about it before it is passed, so that it will not go all the way to the burden of our citizens again, because then we who are in the north have gone far further than others with the separation of waste, which we have been detaching as you have heard for 15 years on the home front of the waste, instead of rewarding us, you have punished us with that decision. You've punished our citizens. If it's the intensity of this government to pass the law that those who are an example in the practice of others being punished, then I think it's bad for this government. You have an article 20. The final law, which has been discussed, is one technical one, I believe that you will be interested, because this needs to be corrected, in Article 36(5), it is written that against the solution of the communal director, the complaint is referred to the competent administrative authority, which should be aligned with Article 117. The Law on the municipal economy, under which the appeal is declared and decided by the administrative body of the County, responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. It is also stated in the same article that against the solution of the municipal director of the City of Zagreb, a complaint can be made to the Ministry which should also be brought into line with Article 117. The Law on the municipal economy and enroll that complaints against administrative acts brought by the municipal director of the City of Zagreb are decided by the central body of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. You're in college, you need those things fixed, that's technical stuff. Article 74(a) of Article 147a should certainly be entered in order to enable the communal director to arrive at a specific particle, i.e. land, regardless of its ownership or ownership in order to carry out a review, allowing the communal directors and Article 43(2). The construction inspection law. There is a possibility that a municipal director will not be able to come to the private parcels, so you will not be able to collect, and you have an article 82, where you have fined that mayors and commissioners are responsible, so if for the sake of example, the municipal director can, the mayor or the captain, receive a fine of 30 to 100 thousand kuna, if the municipal director does not carry out regular annual supervision, in order to determine the existence of rejected waste, if the communal officer does not issue an adequate solution, if the communal director does not determine compliance with the obligations of the solution, and you also have a real and you can charge for the actual formalities, and that is if you do not submit to the county an annual report on the implementation of the plan by 31 March of the year for the previous year. So, I think these penalties, I don't know, don't make it clear to me what you wanted to achieve by transferring those penalties to the executive bodies of the local self-government unit, which is basically responsible for everything. Which is over, practically, you've heard the inexhaustible in practice. You should put these fines on the units of local self-government, but in this way lead and make sure that they really are for real things, and as I said, here, I hope that you've seen that you're going to adopt some of it, so that you don't bring the law again, that those of us who really went far now here and the Ministry, we have information, we're going to get out of the sorters, where we're going to report, there are supposed to be sorters for every center of County, for every county, practically we won't need a Piškornica, because Piškornica is going to increase our price, because we're going to have to have to drive the trash further. I hope you're keeping this law and thinking about taking care that if you don't pass a law like this, and we've gone far beyond many cities and municipalities, so we don't get punished again because we've gone further than others, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124955	Thank you, we have five replicas for your presentation. The first is a colleague of Grbin, and a colleague of Verigaj, and a colleague of Batinić, colleague of Topolko and colleague of Taritaš, please welcome colleague Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for mentioning in your debate both Kashtjun and Marinščina and Pishkornica. Kaštjun, where I was a member of the Supervisory Board a decade ago, was built for 10 years to be released with a lot of problems in 2018. I think when the construction was completed, there were 400 technical problems in operation. The pistachios where waste should be transported from the city where you are mayor should be placed on the market from mid- 2018 only in 2023, but the director paid a million and a half kuna bonus. The taste of all this is not implemented measures that would ensure quality waste recovery, we do not recycle. The garbage continues to be loaded on the back, we pay our bonuses, and citizens are paying higher and higher prices for waste disposal. And I'm asking you why this law, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124957	Thank you. A fellow blacksmith.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124958	I thank you, yes, it was an affair last year as far as Mr. Jozinovic and Pishkornica are concerned. They're here at the Governing Council. The Supervisory Committee of our County, I don't know how they followed the work of Piškornica, but you said it yourself, I said it before in that final bill, Article 17, we are still going to create these regional waste disposal centres, and we see now these two working, the Piškornica, which, if it will start working in 2021, because it has changed the director who is now looking for and the data is synchronising and what it will be and we see that it is not profitable, we see that they are creating minuses and I think that such a strategy should be removed and created some better strategy. I'm also afraid that this story that's good with sorters, but the quantities are questionable and will eventually become...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124959	Thank you. Replica number two. He's a friend of yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124960	Thank you Vice President, so here's counterpart Kovac, you've noticed one well, I'll say a perfiduous way in which the Ministry of Environmental Protection washes hands, I'll say, transfers responsibility to the heads of the local self-government unit. So either it's the leaders, or the communal directors, which we can really say that we don't even know for ourselves what their powers are and through various laws it's been added to them I don't know how much of it, it's hard but all expensive and follow-up. I know that many leaders on the other side of the assembly are equally dissatisfied with it, I guess that's why they're not here today, but what I'm going to go back to is the price. We have that fixed part, we have variable prices. Let's at least reward, if we've already failed to educate people, reward those who rightly separate, and not that they, what you said yourself, and you've made a big step in your county, in your city, that they're actually punished because they separate and what I'm going to appeal to in that education, let's try to have a little bit of one... to the people who are very hard to catch up with all of this. [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124961	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Kovac. Answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124962	I thank you, I completely agree with you, we who have really gone further to this decision, the regulation on the management of municipal waste, we have been punished, I'm afraid now and with this new bill on amendments and additions to the law on sustainable waste management will now come new burdens for our citizens and this is not good, because in fact it breaks at the back of our citizens, all of them paying for it, whether it's the mayor and the Ministry, be sure our citizens are less important. So we should definitely change, especially, the minister promised almost a year ago that this law would change, that he would reward those who went the farthest, we're still hoping, we're still waiting, we're glad that the minister realized that they were wrong, that they passed the wrong law, and that's why I'm appealing and now I'm appealing to this law, so we don't make mistakes again, so we don't apologize again in a month, say, we've passed the wrong law, and the citizens will pay all that again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124963	Thank you, next replica, colleague Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124964	Thank you very much, Vice President, colleague Kovac, when you spoke about the price of waste disposal, we all had to form prices based on the Government Regulation. So the minimum public service, however, is left out here to make up for something else. So the collection of mixed municipal waste, at that price, means that variable part, did you give the bucket is dependent on the regulation, how many times, but at that price the minimum public service involves taking care of large waste, coming into the house, into the yard by that large waste, plastics, disposal in the recycling yard, a series of other activities that must be, of course, so far it has not been regulated in such a way and prices have to be formed on one sustainable principle and it has to be said very clearly and loudly, just for understanding, not that we have to protect ourselves or something like that, that's one thing. The other thing about regional centres, I think it's been going too far, and you and I are testifying, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124965	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124966	Here he would agree with counterpart Batinić, and he is the mayor, understands this problem, and he probably stayed until the end because he is interested in this problem, and he wants to know what will happen to his citizens after we have passed this law and I believe that here he will also influence with his voice, but also with knowledge and experience to contribute that this law is really being passed as it should be brought. And as for these regional centres, there's definitely, we can say, gone in the wrong direction this waste policy, with waste disposal and definitely should change it, so I don't know why it's still inside the law, when we all see it, and we all know that they're all doing non-profits, that there's a lot of things going on, and that's definitely the policy that should be changed. I honestly can tell you, I believe that our Pishkornica, I don't believe it will come to life and that it will work in those capacities where it would have to work before cities and municipalities. Get rid of your sorters and take care of your garbage. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124967	Next replica, colleague Topolko, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124968	Thank you, dear colleague, for mentioning the specificities of Međimurje, and the Međimurjes are specific, the price of waste disposal has risen from 56 to 70 kuna, we all took our shots, paid for it, nothing. In Zagreb several months before the price hike, all the noise was created. However, it is not the only problem, the problem of Međimurju is the municipality of Nedelisce Parak, the municipality of Pribislavec Livadarska Street, we know what we are talking about about inability to collect, pay those users where they pay double the residents of the municipality of Nedelisce, as the municipality of Nedelić and the municipality of Pribislavec must spend every two, three months from 30 to 50 thousand kuna, in order to resuscitate those dumps Oh, thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124969	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124970	So if I agree with you colleagues, these are the specificities of Croatia that we talked about there except that we are leading the waste management we have and one call the problem with the national, one national minority that is the waste disposal of garbage I can say that the town of Čakovec pays $150,000 a year for its settlement, so we separate the city from the waste disposal of garbage so that we don't create an ecological bomb, so that means we're depriving the garbage, and there's also illegal ones. The illegal garbage dumps that are being created, but here we do educate them, too. You know, in Međimurje, it's been 15 years since the action of which the garbage is being thrown, our citizens are really educated, aware of this problem, separate the garbage, and I believe that with this national minority we'll also create this habit that they're putting off, but also that they have a duty to pay for the waste, but yet the problem is the complete government. and a ministry that needs to be involved and helped to do so. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124971	Thank you. And the last replica of your presentation by Anka's colleague, Dark Taritash. Here you go, Comrade Taratash.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124972	Thank you very much, Vice President, my colleague Kovac. You mentioned these unhappy or happy or happy or I don't know what I call them. The communal, role of municipal directors is indeed highlighted in 2013 by the adoption of laws where part of construction works has been transferred to municipal offices and what you and the municipal affairs are in the Ministry of Construction, but the work related to waste is not in the Ministry of Construction but are in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. So it is absolutely unclear who will decide when the municipal director in the City of Zagreb makes a solution related to the waste, whether the Ministry of Construction or the Ministry of Environmental Protection will decide in the second degree, but this is another topic. I'm interested in you as mayor of the city how many municipal directors you have, how are they educated, and do they know all the jobs they need to do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124973	Thank you. Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124974	Here, thanks to the question I can say believe, could it go into the section believe it or not, in the town of Čakovec that covers 28,000 residents we currently have 3 municipal directors and one traffic officer, so it's definitely too little for all those obligations as we bring the law, some new obligations immediately fall on our communal directors, in an hour we would have to be worse than cops in one case when you look at it, somehow they would have been legitimateized, stopped, entered into the courtyards, when we had the thing about castration of stray dogs, taking care, there we gave them new obligations, same now with the Law on Construction Inspection, this law we're going to burden them again so that they should definitely be like doctors with 5 of those specialists already trained for certain things, and unfortunately they're people with medium professional equipment. We try to educate them as much as possible to be educated, but unfortunately given the work they're given, they can't handle it on their own. I mean, that's quite clear. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124975	Before we go to the final debates on behalf of the representatives clubs where we have the application of the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I will welcome the members and members of the Local Committee of the Municipality of Pisarovina who joined us today in the assembly, good day and welcome. ... Be my guest, Comrade Batinić. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124976	Thank you very much, Vice-President, namely why finally for the reason that I should repeat once again the position of the HNS Club precisely because we believe that the problem of waste management in the Republic of Croatia is not important, that it is an extremely important topic not only for us but for the whole of Croatia. First of all, every day if you come from the east, from the west, from the south to Zagreb, we see unloved images. Zagreb is the capital and I believe that although it is 90, over 90% of the cases on local self-government, I think the ministry should also look into the area in which it is responsible. Above all, waste to prevent waste, we personally consider at the HNS Club to exclude the jurisdiction of us, of course, as citizens, but primarily ministries that should also be kept in mind by professional people. Furthermore, I will repeat what I said in the debate what I think is important, and it is related to the times when uncoordinated landfills will be closed, that we should not ignore the topic such as the ecological rent that I was talking about, we must simply respect the specificities of those citizens who live, who live 12 months a year near these dumps. Based on the law, more or less all of us who own a dump of uncoordinated or malls, in the field of units of local self-government, have paid rent to reduce the value of real estate. More or less, I think they've all acted under that law, so we've damaged real estate, people who live not. And therefore, the amendments we have proposed, once again please consider the amendments and accept them. Furthermore, as far as closings are concerned, the minister has been told that he will bring the closure plan to uncoordinated dumps. I would like it to be specific for the area of Varazdin County and the area of North Piškornica, that it will work in 2023, as far as I heard or in 2025, although it looks far, quite far away. But what until then? What until then with those uncoordinated dumps? Furthermore, the question of communal order. Every new law that comes was well said when there is no idea what or how to act, the responsibility and authority of the community redistribution are transferred. We have recently had here in the debate of the State Inspectorate Act, which does not speak out, but in the hope that it may be more operational, just as in the area of environmental protection. So far, the experiences we've had in the local environments simply don't add up. I want to be optimistic, or initiate as the Ministry of Environmental Protection, initiate that the competences of the municipal directorship in this section be given to them by a higher level of enforcement in conduct. And what I find equally important is construction waste, which has not been talked about so much over the past years. We've been witnessing in the last year, two days, a major investment boom, at least I'm speaking from the north, and we just have, it's generally becoming a problem where with this construction waste. The recycling yards of the construction waste are the first steps towards resolving the issue and therefore the appeal, Secretary of State, ma'am. Assistants, according to the Ministry, to try to find models, how to co-finance the construction of recycling yards in local self-government units. I'm just asking you, don't transfer it to regional self-government because the role of operations, the functionality of regional self-government when it comes to centres, especially Pishkornica, when they were stakeholders of a public institution, local self-government, things were operational. Then by law, the public institution was abolished, a new form of organization took place, and then everything stopped. Unfortunately, the Pisces are still standing today. And I'd rather you listen to the practice of those people at the bar who are implementing this Law, who are in daily contact with their citizens. , I believe that would make changes to the law [[Intruder: Thank you]] ed A better quality. [[Intruder:...you...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124977	...college Batinich. And on behalf of the SDP representative's club final colleague, Peja Grbin, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124978	Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me to begin this final presentation by reading a few lines from an article published in the Voice of Istria a few days ago under the heading "Zeljko Calic brought the van to the Voice of Istria full of used furniture", and your article goes about like this: "First, Calic tried to unload the waste in the recycling yard in Valmada, where they told him that they were receiving only waste citizens. At the Gastion Waste Management County Centre, he was told that they were receiving only waste delivered by trucks from local utility companies. After that, he wanted to pay for a stay in Metis, you guess, but they turned him down there with reason not to have room."We are talking about some future waste management in the Republic, and the reality is that we change the laws more often than socks, and we fail to do anything. Dear colleagues and colleagues, when HDZ led the negotiations on EU accession, in this area we took on very large commitments, realistically, commitments that we already knew at the time that we would not be able to meet. I know something about that, because as I mentioned earlier, I was on the Supervisory Board of the Kastijun Company. when we were preparing for the construction of Kastyun County Waste Management Centre in Pula. And I know what problems we've been facing, and I know how much it takes to start preparing for such a center so that it can function. The construction of this center began there sometime 13 years ago, 14 years ago, so that only in mid-year the Centre would start working, and today we are talking about a network that should cover the entire Republic, of which we only have two centers, Rijeka, Pula. And there's a problem, and elsewhere we don't have that either. For four years, we have tried and fought to meet those obligations that we have made as the Republic of Croatia. After that, however, she came first, so the second unfortunate coalition of MOST and MOST gentlemen, who are not here today, who often share their minds, made a complete mess of the system. A chaos that's hard to recover from. Now that HDZ has taken over the resort again, they claim they've done something, and they haven't done anything. Dear Secretary of State, I don't know how you accepted coming here today and how you agreed to defend this cabbage in front of the MPs because what you're offering here today is nothing. You're told by people who are from the field, by people who should be doing this in practice, what are the problems. A colleague, Zmajlovic, pointed out one question to you, that you failed to successfully explain why it is reintroduceded that units of local self-government will charge other units of local self-government the costs of a stay, what will it bring? It will lead to price hikes and ultimately citizens will pay a higher price for waste. I said already in the replica, we in Pula have experienced it, we pay a higher price of waste, in part of the city the measures are not implemented, I'm dumping waste in my neighborhood in exactly the same way as it was a few years ago, even with the exception of those containers in which we can insert plastic, paper, etc., the disposal of waste is not significantly different than when my doa and grandmother moved into the neighborhood 40 years ago. And we're making decisions about collecting waste, and we're making laws, and we're pretending that everything's okay, and we don't see any real problems at all. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the only thing we have brought to the citizens is to allow individual sheriffs such as Milan Bandic to raise the price of waste disposal without offering citizens anything. A year ago, in January 2018, Zagreb made a decision on the collection of waste. In a year, nothing has been done about it. One-fifth of Croatian citizens will receive more expensive bills for this soon. Dear Secretary of State, I will ask you what I asked and my several colleagues in the previous debate, and can you explain to me why we are passing this law, except to show the European Union that we are doing something and we are trying to postpone the penalty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124979	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Mr. Mile Horvat, final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124980	I would like to thank the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable MPs and MPs. The debate lasted long, there was obviously a great interest in these amendments of the law, we very much respect it, we know that the system was not ideal, we cannot set up an ideal moment. It'll take us a long time to model it the way we think it should work. I, we've written these remarks down, we've received amendments, we'll discuss them, we'll go through them, and by the time we vote, we'll have a position on all these amendments. And now I don't want to explain it, but I'm going to tell my esteemed colleague Grbino about this last, or the last fact about the introduction of a waste disposal fee to other dumps, so I repeat again from 556 local self-government of them 436 postpones waste in the space of another unit of local self-government. Now we're closing 29 dumps because they're completely out of sync. It would mean that those who have so far, local self-government, who have invested and who have settled, have been rehabilitating their dumps and have to accept other people's waste, have been punished in some way, because they were up-to-date, and those who have been messy, so now we're closing them up, because they're absolutely out of sync, they say, okay, we're going to be driving waste to you, and we haven't invested in the recovery and editing of our dumps. Is that fair? So then we thought that those who have to receive other people's waste get some kind of benefits, which is the fee that would amount to some, up to 30% to 1/3 of the disposal costs, and that would be income and local self-government and it would be unintended, it could be conditionally used, conditional on strengthening, improving the social standards of those people who receive other people's waste. It's such an idea. Did we get that idea, time and practice will show, everything is subject to change, but it was absolutely an idea. And then let me tell you something else, this whole fee is current until the moment, so the second category of dump that will work until closing, until the capacity is filled, they are closed and the third category is no longer used, so those dumps that are active, which will continue to work until the centre opens, and also by setting up the centre, that fee no longer applies to them, as it does to local self-government in your County, so in Istria County, because these two centres work, that fee does not apply to your local self-government. And so that's some idea, whether I've explained it right now or not, there's going to be more about that public communication, we're going to, like all the things we do to explain to people and try to present it, because I repeat, the waste management system is something that we all have to do together as a model. Thank you for your comments, we will consider these amendments and until the vote we will make a decision on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124981	We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is colleague Grbin, second colleague Shuker and third colleague Uncle Angelko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124982	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary of State, I fully agree with you. Unconditional dumps should be closed, it is completely inappropriate for us to see throughout Croatia, but look, when you're putting the garbage away for this, and you're giving this extra compensation to local self-government units, but you're not giving extra compensation that should be invested to improve waste management, but you're leaving it, as you've already said, to local self-government units to use it at their own discretion, not as intended but as a non-intentional income. And it's very wrong, plus it will lead to an increase in waste disposal prices for all citizens in these areas, and it will not increase waste management standards. And one more thing, you said it would take us a long time to start applying this law. Can you at least give us an indicative of what that means for a long time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124983	Thank you. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124984	I think that, dear colleague Grbin, we got the wrong idea, I said it would take a long time to establish a functioning system, and this law will apply when it's published in the National Journal, so there's no dilemma. About your first observation, so we'll call it... the fee to introduce, but we're still thinking about it, we're talking about assessing the right moment, because we think that the waste management system is kind of quite burdened with various taxes, fees, fees. [[/the speaker doesn't understand.]] We don't rule out this possibility, but right now, we haven't decided to apply it, which doesn't mean it won't be in any time soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124985	Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124986	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. One of your sentences, which in principle revealed everything that has been said today to many parliamentary deputies, so when you said we're not satisfied with the situation, but it will take a long time to get to what we want, and it's simply true, and I'm sorry that some colleagues who have had the opportunity to do some things, today we're discussing how we're discussing, the situation is what it is, it can't change overnight. And the other thing, we all have to be aware that taking care of waste costs, and that's to say, as well as food, the privilege of the rich. And why do we keep staring? If you're taking someone else's garbage, then you need to pay them back for why you're taking it away, and that's supposed to damage, first of all, those residents, it's in a material, or financial form, in whose area that dump is located, because their real estate is worth less and less. It's simply the law of a normal functioning, of economic functioning, and now I'm taking care of this, and of that, I'm gonna give you the trash, I'm not gonna pay you anything. So who's the fool going to take it?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124987	Thank you. Thank you. The next replica is the last replica, fellow Striker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124988	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State. Today, when you take a walk in nature, especially along forest or Polish roads, I doubt you'll get a mile, you won't come across a wild dump. I'm sure you won't find where there aren't any wild dumps. I therefore believe, and since we all love, especially in pre-election campaigns, to call for a clean environment, to nature, to our future, to our children, that this Law, is a good step in this direction to finally make quality management of waste, and, of course, there should be an appeal to the awareness of the citizens themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124989	Thank you. We have also concluded and concluded the debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, and we will vote on the same law when conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124990	We will now move to a statement on amendments to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 443. The promoter is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed, the amendments were carried out by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, the Club of Independent Representatives, the representative of Stjepan Kovac, the Club of Representatives of the HNS Liberal Democrats. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means, please the proposal representative, to show about the other amendments, the respected State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mile Horvat. First of all, we're going to be the first amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124991	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124992	It becomes an integral part of the law. The second amendment is also the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124993	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124994	It becomes an integral part of the law. The third amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124995	I apologize, it is rejected, the proposed amendment extends the purpose of the compensation prescribed for the construction, for the management of municipal waste and for the resolution of the uncoordinated landfill to other facilities, devices, municipal infrastructure. This broad and inaccurately delayed may include any object and device, which serves to carry out municipal activities, roads, lighting and similar provisions of the specific Law on the municipal economy, which comes out of the scope of the waste management and the scope of the Sustainable Waste Management Act, and therefore cannot be accepted by this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124996	Dear Representative Milorad Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124997	Thank you, Vice President. I accept your explanation. For a short period of time, it was not possible to specify more closely from our side. In fact, it was an intensities, primarily that municipal buildings, which serve waste management, could be built at all, applied our amendment to the construction of access roads, which exclusively function in waste management. So there was this amendment, and of course by sewing all the other articles in that article of the law, but okay, next time we'll determine more precisely, so I believe that the amendment will then be accepted, I withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124998	So this amendment has been withdrawn. The 4th Amendment is a representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u124999	Agent Stephen Kovac's amendment is denied. The appeal solution to the municipal order referred to in Article 36(3) of the Law is already prescribed in paragraph 5 of the same Article of the Law. This amendment proposes an amendment in fact requires compliance with the Law on the municipal economy, which is contrary to the whole of this law, the scope of which is waste management, not the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125000	Dear Representative Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125001	Thank you. Well, here's to art. Article 36(5), as you have said, of the applicable Law on State Management.../incomprehensible/..., it is written that against the solution of the municipal director, the complaint is referred to the competent administrative authority which should be aligned with the Article. 117. The Law on the municipal economy, under which the appeal is declared and decided by the administrative authority of the county responsible for the affairs of the municipal economy. Also, in that same article, it is said that against the solution of the municipal director of the city of Zagreb, it can appeal to the ministry, which should be brought back into line with that same article. 117. and enroll that complaints against administrative acts brought by the municipal director of the city of Zagreb are decided by the central body of the state administration responsible for the affairs of the municipal directorship. So, I think you should fix it because one article. is in collegiate with another. Thank you. And I demand a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125002	Thank you. The 5th amendment is the Club of Independent Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125003	A club of independent MPs, the amendment is denied. An amendment to the proposed amendment is considered unnecessary because knowledge is not enough for a communal director to act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125004	On behalf of the club, Honorable Representative Sagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125005	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear Mr. Horvat, we've turned things around now, you say, knowing isn't enough. This amendment did not go in the direction of strengthening the evidence to the perpetrator of the illicit action. This amendment went towards the protection of the communal director. We put communal directors on their necks so much responsibility that I don't know, one man with nat average abilities couldn't do it. Anything we don't know who we're gonna let do, we're giving it to the communal director. Let me repeat what happened in the debate, so if the local self-government units got one, for example. The plane, then who would drive them, would say communal director. One story from practice. It really happened. The communal director found the man who knocked down the acacias on the public surface. He stopped him, legitimateized him, and you know what's come up, there's been a lot of trouble. There's even a physical reckoning because a communal officer can't do it, he has no right, he can only do it by the police, but what if he does it, how does he find a man who does an illicit shop and what does he do with it? And this amendment went in that direction, so that it doesn't happen to find someone, that the communal officer is not put in a situation that he has to stop someone, it's enough to have knowledge of, to collect evidence, to photograph and then to treat that perpetrator later. Here it was the intensity of this amendment, and I'm sorry it wasn't accepted and we're suing the vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125006	The 6th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125007	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS is hereby rejected. The proposed amendment suggests that this fee can be extremely paid by the municipal company. The amendment cannot be accepted for this reason because it is precisely the purpose of paying this fee to local self-government units, not a utility company, or ultimately a public service user, by collecting mixed and decomposable municipal waste, which would result in a higher price. This service fee to the local self-government unit in which waste disposal is used to improve the quality of life and purpose for its use is not prescribed.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125008	On behalf of the Club of Representatives, Honored Representative Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125009	Thank you, Vice President. So this is an extraordinary proposal, an exceptional one, namely, this is a practice. Obviously, we're always on the verge of those operational things we have to spend on the ground. I mean, what logic is that the amendment is rejected, I don't understand. The principle of wage polluter is applied in certain segments, in others not in this. And which, therefore, was the intensity that, by what logic, if the intensity of the whole law is a polluter of wages, it means citizens, that local self-government from its budget pays another. There is the possibility that municipal companies operating in the area of several units of local self-government in the price of waste management, which the law itself prescribes the price structure, which all must enter, that the units in which the dump is located, are paying the ecological rent that I am talking about. It's days as a possibility. Namely, for what reason we gave this amendment as an option, an alternative, unless the individuals of the unit can agree. And the possibility has been legally realized. So as an alternative to the part in the hope that this will be done in practice and I believe that both the ministry and the competent services that are for the implementation of this law will take all actions if there is a lack of agreement between local self-governments. For that reason, I will withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125010	So the amendment has been withdrawn. The 7th Amendment is a representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125011	Amendment to Art. The 36th Representative of Stjepan Kovac has been denied. Appeals on the solutions of the municipal director of Art. The 36th century of the 3rd Law is already prescribed in Article 5 of the same article of the Law. Furthermore, the amendment proposed requires an amendment in fact to comply with the Law on the municipal economy, which is contrary to the objective of this whole law, which is the scope of waste management, not the municipal economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125012	Dear Representative Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125013	Thank you. Well, there was an intensities to sign in and allow the utility director to come to the plot regardless of whose property he owns because it means someone whose private property he can forbid the communal director to come and see as it was made possible in Article. The 43rd century is the 2nd century. 2 Laws on construction inspection. Why? Because in that same law, you have an art. In 82, which states that it is possible to punish not the unit of local self-government but the head of the unit, if the communal officer does not issue an adequate solution, if the communal officer does not determine the fulfilment of the obligation and not many more so, and on the other hand, you do not allow the communal director to carry out the procedure and carry it out in a quality manner. So there's no point in even punishing someone, how you're going to punish someone if you didn't allow them to make a quality insight into something, into some application, etc., I don't think it makes any sense. Please vote on the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125014	Thank you. The 8th Amendment is the Club of Representatives of the HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125015	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125016	The 9th becomes an integral part of the law. The 9th Amendment is a representative of Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125017	The amendment of a representative of Stjepan Kovac to Article 74 shall be rejected, namely access to the property of the communal director for the purpose of determining the facts in the case of discarded waste, has already been regulated in Article 36(7). The law on sustainable waste management.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125018	Dear Representative Stjepan Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125019	Please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125020	Thank you. The next 10th amendment is the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125021	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125022	It becomes an integral part of the law. The 11th Amendment is the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125023	The amendment of the HNS Club to Article 91 is rejected, namely the amendment is not acceptable because the law does not determine the exceptions to the adoption of the Regulation, when the Regulation is adopted, the same conditions, hence the criteria and method of determining the amount of compensation, as well as the method of payment, shall be applicable to all entities which are required to access, shall act in accordance with these obligations. However, the law does not prohibit units of local self-government from regulating their relations with each other, and so on, if all units of local self-government are in agreement with such a way as to regulate mutual relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125024	Honorable representative Milorad Batinic on behalf of the club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125025	Thank you, Vice-President, thank you, Secretary of State, namely the intensity was precisely because the deadline prescribed by the law is one year, but I am pleased with your answer if you have said that it can be agreed within the unit, that it can be operationalized for that reason I will withdraw the amendment, because I believe that perhaps a more skilled solution in the text of the law was needed just as you have now said, that the agreement within the units is possible to implement the agreement past in fact until the period until the rules are passed. I'm satisfied. I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125026	Thank you. Amendment 11 has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125027	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Sustainable Waste Management Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 443., the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia but the debate is closed. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the Independent Representatives' Club, MP Stjepan Kovac, the Croatian People's Party's Representatives' Club, the Liberal Democrats' Club. The review of the amendments has been sent to you by electronic means. The amendments have been made during today's session. And now we will also vote in favour of amendments that the Proposer does not accept. In turn, the first HDZ representative club was accepted, the second same club of HDZ representatives was accepted, the third club of HNS representatives was not accepted and was withdrawn. The fourth representative of Stjepan Kovac, he is not accepted by the government, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 5. The club of independent deputies has not been accepted, so we must vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Six. The club of representatives of the HNS was withdrawn and no. 7. Representative Stjepan Kovac The government does not accept it, so let's vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. 8. The HDZ representative club has been accepted. Amendment No. The 9th Representative of Stjepan Kovac has not been accepted, so please vote. He didn't get the votes he needed. Amendment No. Ten. The Legislative Committee has been adopted. And Amendment No. 11. The HNS representative club has been withdrawn. I am now voting on the final number of the Laws on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sustainable Waste Management. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes are 80 for, 8 abstentions and 38 against the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Sustainable Waste Management Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125028	We are on our way to the next item of the agenda, which is the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the Competition Protection Council members and the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Board for the Protection of Competition. The applicant shall be the Government of the Republic of Croatia, pursuant to Article 27 of the Act. The law on the protection of competition. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Economy. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? We have Mrs Natasa Mikush Zigman, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here you go, Mrs. Mikush Zigman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125029	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Law on the Protection of Competition has been established that the President and members of the Competition Protection Council appoint and resolve the duties of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The President and members of the Council shall be appointed for a period of five years, and may be re-appointed. As the members of the Council so far, Mr Denis Matic, then the Master of Science Ljiljani Pavlic and the Master of Science Tatjana Peroković, expired, the Government adopted a proposal for a Decision to resolve part of the Board for the Protection of Competition, as well as a Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Council. The Master of Science Ljiljana Pavlic and Mr. Denis Matic are re-proposed as members of the Council, while a new member of the Council is proposed science doctor Mirta Kapural, who has a long-standing experience of working in the Agency, and is therefore engaged, for many years in the real competition. All these proposed members of the Council shall meet the formal criteria for designations referred to in Article 28. The law, which is about people, is about professionals who, who have long-term work experience in the area of competence of the Competition Protection Agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125030	Thank you, too. So does the chairman want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then we only have one application on behalf of the Representatives' Club. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125031	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, State Secretary. I have spoken several times over the past few years about the importance of the Competition Protection Agency, for the market economy in Croatia, which we are just learning, so I will shorten today and only say that the HDZ Club supports this Decision to appoint a part of the Competition Protection Council, so Dr Mirta Kapural, Master Ljiljana Pavlic and Denis Matic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125032	Thank you, too. I can conclude very quickly, and thus I can conclude the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of part of the Competition Protection Council and the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Competition Protection Council, but on one proposal, we will vote when the conditions are met. That's what we're done with the agenda, with the agenda actually for today. We continue on 23 January, on Wednesday at 9 p.m. and 30 minutes, with the Final Proposal for the Health Information Act, second reading of P.Z. Number 422. I wish you all a good weekend and a good-bye. Session interrupted at 14.37 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125033	We are now going to a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Competition Protection Council and b) Proposal for a decision to appoint a part of the Competition Protection Council members. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. After the debate was concluded, the Government submitted amendments to the Proposal for a Decision appointing part of the Competition Protection Council members. In accordance with Article 5(1) of Regulation The rules of procedure in such amendments must be agreed by the majority of the representatives present. I give the first vote of the motion to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please vote. I find that most of the votes, 79 for, 24 abstentions and 8 against, we have decided to hold a debate on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, so I would ask the proposing representative to explain the amendments submitted. With us is respected Zdenko Lucic, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts. Here, we have two amendments, so explain them together.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125034	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, Your Honor, I would like to thank you for your time. At a meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Government of the Republic of Croatia established a proposal for a decision appointing part of the members of the Competition Protection Council. Since the decision has not been taken by the proposed deadline, on 16 November 2018, the Government has made amendments proposing to delete that deadline, i.e. that the decision enters into force on the date of its adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-01-18-0.u125035	That's two amendments explained, right? Okay, thank you very much. Now I'm going to open a debate on the government's amendments. Is anyone picking up? If not, I'm closing the debate, so we're going to vote on the first amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes, 77 for, 29 abstentions and 2 votes against, have adopted the first amendment of the government, and there are an integral part of the draft decision. Now let's go to second, to vote on the second amendment of the government. Please, let's vote. I find that we have accepted it, 77 for, 32 abstentions, and there are also an integral part of the motion for a decision. Now we're going to vote on the motions for a decision. First, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the Competition Protection Council, please vote. I find that, most of the votes, 79 for and 37 abstentions, we have reached a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Competition Protection Council in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And second, I am voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Board for the Protection of Competition, please vote. I find that, most of the votes, 78 for, 36 abstentions and 3 against, we have reached a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Competition Protection Council in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
