ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130587	Apology to, at this delay, the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs, allow me to present to you the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol under the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty. The Republic of Croatia has always strongly supported the country's membership in this alliance, especially since it became a NATO member and this law confirming this agreement, or protocol, give further support to the efforts of Northern Macedonia to join NATO. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Croatia clearly says that the Republic of Croatia remains committed to the Euro-Atlantic perspective, the future of the Southeast European states and strongly supports the EU-NATO enlargement process. Continuing NATO enlargement is of paramount importance for the long-term stabilisation of Southeast Europe, while strengthening stability and security of Southeast Europe increases stability and security of the Republic of Croatia. For all these reasons, the Republic of Northern Macedonia's membership as the 30 NATO members is strongly supported by the Republic of Macedonia. In this accession process, the RS also served as a hotspot for two years, so the country that specifically led the Republic of Macedonia on the road to NATO's accession to the alliance. Dear MPs and MPs during last year have witnessed the final phase of finding a solution for three decades of an open bilateral name dispute between Greece and now Northern Macedonia. Thus, on 17 June 2018, a historic name contract was signed on the Greek side of the Prespa Lake. The contract was ratified in Sober on 20 June 2018, and on 11 January 2019, through the adoption of constitutional changes, Northern Macedonia met its obligations under the Prespa name agreement. On 25 January 2019, the Greek Parliament ratified an agreement on a name from Prespa, which met the preconditions for launching a protocol signing procedure under the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. NATO member states signed the protocol in Brussels on 6 February 2019, and as one of the commitments under the Prespa agreement, Greece was the first NATO ally to also ratify the protocol on 8 February 2019. On 12 February 2019, the Prespa name agreement entered into force at that time, thus meeting all the formal legal requirements for changing the name. With an official note also circulated in the UN by all UN member states since 14 February 2019, the Republic of Northern Macedonia has been formally and officially notified of a change of name and thus ended the long-standing name dispute and the obstacles to Macedonia's entry into NATO have been removed, as has the continuation of the European integration of the country. From 15 February 2019 Therefore, in all official communications, at domestic and international level, the Republic of Northern Macedonia uses the sole name. Dear MPs and MPs are just the historic moment of signing a protocol that is now ahead of you, preceding this historic agreement with Greece, has bridged the long-standing stalemate of northern Macedonia on its Euro-Atlantic path, which could have started yet in 2018. at a NATO summit in Bucharest when Albania and the Republic of Croatia were invited to join. Now the Republic of Croatia marks and celebrates the 10th anniversary of NATO membership. Northern Macedonia's NATO membership is important that, both for northern Macedonia and for the whole of NATO, as well as for the Republic of Macedonia, because the integration of a country into NATO assumes significant and comprehensive reforms in a country that is esperating towards membership that northern Macedonia has implemented and done. It is just an expansion of the new members, one of the fundamental characteristics and flexibility of the NATO alliance itself and as a practical policy and as a political idea so-called. NATO open door policies, this is a huge gain for peace, security, right here in our European area. The benefit is therefore a two-way, expansion of the NATO security zone, while new members are coming under NATO umbrella protection. The collective defence of the population and territory of all their members remains the main task of NATO's alliance and is also the primary purpose of the organisation's existence. Furthermore, his ability to evolve as we can see, adapt and transform, has done to NATO both what he is today and after 70. of its foundation, it is the most powerful political military organization or alliance in human history, we are pleased to take the last step on the Croatian side today to allow northern Macedonia to also join the alliance. Dear MPs and MPs, Northern Macedonia is otherwise an important partner for regional security in this part of Europe, showing participation in many regional initiatives, whose purpose is to strengthen cooperation and security. The country also contributes to security through participation in NATO's operation in Afghanistan, so it has done so in the past before it will formally become a member, and also the Republic of Macedonia is already participating in support of NATO's mission in Kosovo, thus showing its readiness to join and contribute to international peace and security. All this makes Euro-Atlantic space safer and more stable, and NATO allies have recognised it and therefore they want to see the Republic of Macedonia in their membership. Since the signing of the accession protocol, northern Macedonia has also participated in NATO meetings as an invited state with all other members except for the right to take part in decisions. The accession protocol should so far be ratified in the parliaments of all Member States, and for this purpose we are standing here today in front of you and I present a proposal for a law on the validation of this Protocol in this House of Commons. Dear MPs and MPs as you know the Republic of Northern Macedonia binds long-term friendship, partnership and friendly relations, and we believe that this ratification of the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol contributes to strengthening and cooperation and we are achieving precisely the interest of the Republic of Croatia. In conclusion, I would like to say that by accepting this protocol in this House of Commons, the Republic of Croatia will be one of the first member states to express their support at one political level for the entry of northern Macedonia into this alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130588	I thank the secretary of state. We've got six replicas. He's the first pal of Bunjac's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130589	Thank you very much. State Secretary, therefore, you say that the Republic of Macedonia supports Macedonia's entry into NATO in northern Macedonia and that we are celebrating the 10th anniversary of Croatia's accession to NATO, however, I am interested in the basis of what you are building on the legitimacy that you are making because, for example, we do not support the entry of northern Macedonia into NATO, neither are we celebrating the entry, so you represent yourself as the Republic of Croatia, but here we are, we believe who you are and I think that this decision, because such statements are not very wise because for the entry of the Republic of Macedonia into NATO, as well as for the entry of Macedonia into NATO, there has never been a referendum called, so these decisions are made by a narrow click, in particular at the head of the HDZ, SDP, GLAS and HNS, and please do not speak on behalf of the entire Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130590	Answer, please. Would you like to respond? Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130591	I thank you for this comment, this gives me the opportunity to respond and to say that the Republic of Croatia as a state, and thus all its citizens have made it clear to the NATO Alliance, not by this today's statement, but by accepting membership in NATO, whose entry has confirmed and accepted this very High House. Similarly, the Croatian Government's decisions so far and its participation in NATO membership confirm our readiness, will to be a member and contribute to this alliance, bearing in mind, of course, all the benefits that this alliance brings to its members, so the Republic of Croatia as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130592	Thank you. Dear colleague Kirin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130593	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130594	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130595	So, the Republic of Serbia is currently having a partnership with NATO, and we respect, of course, their current neutrality decision, which does not mean that it does not enter into close partnership relations, including exercises with NATO members or NATO alliances. The Republic of Croatia supports NATO's expansion as one organisation that brings peace and security, and I would say we all want peace, security to come and solidify both in this southeast Europe, in our part of Europe, and as necessary to join the EU to meet the right conditions, so it is necessary to meet the appropriate conditions for NATO, once and when Serbia points out its readiness to join NATO and when it meets the required conditions, it can certainly count on the support of the Croatian side.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130596	Thank you. Comrade Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130597	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, you are saying that Croatia played a significant role around Macedonia in joining i.e. So far, it has been the one that has advocated the expansion of NATO and Macedonia, however, as you comment after 10 years in NATO, a partnership relationship with NATO members, where these partners are, and as far as your ministry has scheduled, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the purchase of aircraft because Croatian soldier, Croatian military, Croatian state is fulfilling all tasks, we send the Croatian army to a mission where we send our people where they are threatened and their lives, however, there is no partnership in the purchase of aircraft. Where were you then? What were you doing when you were so important in NATO? Where are the planes fighting? So the only thing we're putting our sons on the mission and as far as the partnership is concerned, is what you did about the plane as the Foreign Ministry. Absolutely nothing, you're neither important nor holding you. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Nor does anyone hold you as significant, thank you. [[I'm asking you to stick to the time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130598	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130599	The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in co-operation with other resolutions and authorities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, above all, the Ministry of Defence, has made efforts to buy or purchase aircraft, believing that the construction of its own security is always based on strengthening its own readiness to defend itself. The partnership also means NATO does not necessarily provide for an easy or difficult purchase of aircraft, but enables cooperation that will ultimately result in the purchase of suitable aircraft for the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130600	We're going to a fellow bush, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130601	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Secretary of State, you have talked among other things about the benefits and values of the North Atlantic Union, Western democracy, and the value of this alliance and Western democracy are freedom of speech and freedom of expression. I would ask you to comment on a regulation by the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs which prohibits freedom of speech for ministry employees and when it comes to private performances that are not related to the work of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, when it comes to social media publications and does such a rule have anything to do with the Croatian Constitution, the Council of Europe Convention and the values of Western Democracy and the North Atlantic Union? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130602	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130603	Yesterday, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs made a detailed statement showing these insinuations that we do not fully accept and we believe that the regulation is as it is, in no way endangers those values that are based on the Constitution and in the law of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130604	Let's move on, colleague Curai, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130605	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, I think that, in fact, at the end of your presentation, one of the most important things has been said and that is equally important except for the ratification and validation of the flow itself is precisely this political position or statement, as we would say, in which we do it first. I think that this is important in any further consideration and enlargement of both NATO alliances and the EU, in the final sense that we are at last, where we should be, and that we know to use it, of course, with that basic objective of peace and stability in the region, or the Balkans, that we certainly know how to interpret and use it for any further possible economic cooperation that is absolutely as one leader of all these and new members, and, and all of that, so that absolutely the most important thing is that we of all countries, we are among the first to do this, and that is what needs to be absorbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130606	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130607	Here I thank you for this comment, this particular effort which the Republic of Northern Macedonia has made so far, and with other countries in Southeast Europe, is just confirming our goal, to co-operate and to achieve an interest in the whole southeast of Europe, Europe, and above all for the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130608	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130609	Thank you, esteemed president of HS, Your Honor, the Secretary of State. So, in your explanation, you said that the dispute between the Republic of Macedonia and Greece lasted a long time and that this compromise solution, so that R. Macedonia changed its name to Northern Macedonia and its name, the change of the Constitution ran in such a way as to raise the two-thirds majority, 81 MPs of them 120, and in the Republic of Greece, however, out of 300 parliamentarians, 153 voted in favour of ratification of this contract. And I'm interested now, you said that this whole process and of course it should be supported, of course it should be supported by R. Macedonia for this integration, but how much later in your opinion, how much late internal affairs, for example, in R. Greece, change of government can affect that these things can start to destabilise these processes of NATO entry, or ask you directly, how can NATO get out?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130610	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130611	So NATO, therefore, has a prescribed process of exiting NATO, but this agreement, the Prespa agreement, the Prespa Agreement is exactly the basis that has obliged both R. Macedonia and Greece to accept a name change and remove obstacles that have so far made it impossible for Macedonia to move forward on the Euro-Atlantic path. It is true that the protocol was adopted by a smaller majority, so of course, but not by an absolute, total majority in the Greek Parliament, but that is, democracy, Greece has confirmed that the Protocol is in accordance with its Constitution and in accordance with its rules in a valid manner, and she showed her willingness to be tied up with him. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130612	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. The first is a Club of Representatives of the Living Wall and of the SNAGA and the esteemed colleague Ivan Pernar, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130613	Dear ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that Macedonia has been drawn into the NATO Pact in one undemocratic way. I'm going to give you a first example, which is that the president of the state refused that name change agreement. Then she said the ruling click, as we do not care what the president is against it, says we are going to the referendum and in the referendum they assured everyone that he will pass, that the Macedonians will decide to change the name. However, when the referendum came, a fiasco followed. Fiasco because two-thirds of Macedonians boycotted him, and even in areas with the Albanian majority, the turnout was barely one-third. So there was no big difference in turnout there, depending on which part of Macedonia was voted. What I'm trying to say is that the majority of the Macedonian parliament that was in favour of the agreement was not a natural majority, but it came from the opposition party, part of the MPs exactly how much it would take for the referendum to pass. In fact, he turned his back on his own party and the voters who chose them and changed his apartment in the political arena and sided with those they had fought until yesterday and at the apartment of an agreement they had disputed until yesterday. In fact, it is made clear that the accession of Macedonia, or the change of its name, was not done in a democratic way. Neither the president was in favour, nor the people in the referendum were in favour, nor was in fact the parliamentary majority in its full being in favour, but it was in what the president of the VMRO-DPMNE Mickovski said. We're dealing with pressures and blackmails, so I'll explain why later. However, that is exactly how the basic principle mentioned at the very beginning of this Protocol was violated, namely, it says that, in accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty, NATO's basic task is to preserve, beware of this, the common values of allies and the first value is cited as democracy. In my previous speech, I explained that democracy was actually the first victim to join NATO, or this flow. Then, it is said, another principle called rule of law, is one of the principles of the North Atlantic alliance. However, you know very well that NATO, right now, does not recognise and respect international law, is making decisions on invasions, i.e. bombing certain countries beyond the rule of law or international law. And we had opportunities to see it in Iraq, we had opportunities to see it in Libya, we had opportunities to see it in other countries. Also, another lie in this Protocol on Accession states that it is the goal, i.e. that NATO's basic task is a peaceful resolution of the conflict. This is how NATO calmly solved the conflict in Libya. How? Is that the peace that NATO offers in terms of cruise missiles, bombs, etc.? This peaceful resolution of the NATO-led conflict has given us opportunities to see it in Srije. In Syria, it was the same scenario, i.e. Like in Libya, NATO did not directly wage a war against the country, but rather armed, funded and politically covered essentially terrorists in whom it was, i.e. With whom he made a deal like with the devil because he was actually a terrorist in that pact not only were they allies but they were only people who had the same interest they had and that was the overthrow of the Syrian government. In the end, I would like to read the letter that I sent to Christian Mickosk, which was a letter that was a reflection of his reply, Mr Mitchell, he was an official of the State Department, reads like this: Dear Mr Mikoski, he is otherwise VMRO party president, I address you with love and respect in the hope that you will turn your back on those who ask you to agree to the humiliation of your own people and state. In his letter to you, US State Department official Wess Mitchell asks you to agree to a change in your country's name so that your country becomes only a geographical concept on the map and ceases to be the homeland of the Macedonian people, or Macedonians. The objective of the agreement is to take away your people's national identity. And why am I saying that? So because a change in the name of the airport in Skopje, which is now no longer called Alexander the Great airport, was required to change the highway, and also its name, also called Alexander the Great. They say they may even ask to move the statue of Alexander the Great standing in the center of Skopje. It goes on, and I can tell you, i.e. The objective of the agreement is to take away your people's national identity. And actually tell you that you are not Macedonians, but residents of the northern part of Macedonia who usurped the name of Macedonia so your country cannot even call it that. In his letter, Mitchell invites you to show courage and maturity. But does courage and maturity prove by giving up their identity, culture, and language. In your response, you write to him that if there are threats and blackmails against your party's representatives, because it was precisely those MPs who were needed for the two-thirds majority and regarding tomorrow's vote in parliament that they were coming outside your party. Notice the thought, Mitchell tells him, that you should not put pressure on your MPs and Mikoski suits him if such pressures exist they do not come from me, but come from those who to God extend democracy, individual freedom, peaceful conflict resolution, rule of law etc.. It goes on, meaning tomorrow's vote in parliament that they come outside your party, indirectly sending a message that such methods serve people who are on the other side of the political arena, means those who are supporters of NATO. The same ones you say were brutally and violently filling boxes in a way that in some of the polling stations the turnout in the referendum was 90% even though it had never crossed 45% in the past. So what happened at the polling station was about a third, wherever it was being monitored, but somewhere where there wasn't an exit control there was as much as 90%, which makes it clear to you that there was actually a masculine con. And all with the goal of reiterating the will of the vast majority of citizens who have shown by boycott what they think of the question they are being asked. You probably think that political cleanups and persecutions are aimed at those who do not accept the humiliation of their own country and people, culminations, or the peak of pressure on the Macedonians. But I assure you it's only the beginning. Namely those who assure you that by joining the EU and NATO you will be equal partners and together make decisions lie to you as they lied to us in Croatia. Do you then think that they do not permit you, so do you not see that they do not allow you to decide either your own fate? Do you think it will allow you to raise your hands in NATO against the bombing of a new country whose legitimate authority the US administration wishes to remove violently through contrary international law? Do you think that this or some future US administration will respect you more than Montenegrin Prime Minister Duško Markovic, who Trump rudely pushed at the NATO Summit and thus made it clear how relations within the organisation are? Do you really believe that Macedonia is waiting for the bright future, brighter or brighter future with those who want to enslave and commit the whole world of their own... not choosing the means and means to do so. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you saw in the end an example of a recent referendum in your own country? Do you think you will decide in the EU what laws will apply in Macedonia or what foreign policy will be yours? Do you think anyone out there will ask you anything? They told us they would, but now we know that they cheated on us, that they lied to us to get us into a dungeon of a people that was harder to get out than to get into it. How can you continue to support Macedonia's entry into NATO and the EU when you see that these two organisations are the bearers of pressure on your country, that they don't care at all about your people, languages or cultures but exclusively about economic, military and political colonization, another part of the Balkan peninsula. Don't be naive and stop arguing that the EU and NATO will solve internal problems in Macedonia. This is what we were told in Croatia, today after 5 years of EU membership, we all know that it was another one in a long series of lies. Gather enough political courage and wisdom to reject not only the agreement that comes from the depths of hell, but also the path that its advocates are giving you, a path that looks like an apple from the garden of Eden, which looks tempting, but when you bite it, you realize that it has brought you to ruin. Instead, choose the path of freedom and sovereignty, seek to change the law on the National Bank of Macedonia, to stop interesting your country's money from its own central bank, and to abolish the currency clause and stop maintaining the exchange rate policy, which has put out your entire production economy, which is why both Macedonians and Albanians are moving out of Macedonia. Choose the path of developing a better tomorrow, the way of brotherhood and building a better state, along with Albanians, and not decommissioning and decommissioning is the same. Your partners are not in Washington and Brussels, but in Tetovo and Gostivar, you must give them your hand and do your best to create a better and more successful Macedonia, than the one you created following the guidelines and the colonizers and architects of the new world order instead of the will of your own people. With respect and love, as brother to brother, as one who understands your language, mentality, culture and way of thinking, and not as a stranger to whom nothing is sacred, which is the word of Macedonia and the geographical concept on the map, not the homeland of the Macedonian people. It was my message to Kristian Mickovski and I hope that the Macedonians will understand the whole story, and the point is that democracy in NATO and the EU is gone, that it is a system in which it pushes the weaker one, that it is a system of goods and masters, that it is the system of the one that is exploited and exploited, that it is a system that is not beyond anything to achieve its interests. What NATO wants to do is not spread peace around the world, as Trump showed, recently when that nuclear-head deal, which limited their number, wrote off. What the world needs is peace. What the world needs is peace, and NATO does not spread peace around the world by its policies, but is constantly making excuses for a new conflict, for a new war, and in fact, those interventions, which are without the mandate of the UN Security Council, not only destroying the country and destroying its inhabitants, but also trying to bring others into their wars. You can see for example all the wars that NATO has waged as they end. You can see the situation in Iraq, in Iraq just now the American invasion has caused chaos, American intervention, or NATO intervention in Syria, has also caused chaos, the goal has also been to break up the state, to break it down. Same thing you have a chance to see in Libya. And as for the success of NATO's operation in Afghanistan, you see for yourself that after nearly 18 years of war there, the US government itself wants to negotiate with the Taliban, because they understand there is no military solution. However, although it is clear to you that there is no military solution in Afghanistan, although soon the war in Afghanistan will become longer than in Vietnam and it is obvious that America will have to withdraw sooner or later. Although the war in Syria has resulted in a disaster, for the Syrian people, as in Iraq for the Iraqi people, as in Libya for the Libyan people, NATO does not give up on this programme of violent regime change, the programme of bombing and devastation of all those who do not want to obey that new world order that America wants to establish. A order where there are no equal, order in which America is lord and let it be, I would call it the fruit-massed domino, which whips and suppresses all those other countries, however, unlike the fruit-massed relations, against their will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130614	Second debate, Honored Representative Miroslav Tudjman on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130615	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the NATO Alliance is signed... In February 2019, the 29 authorised representatives of the NATO Member State accredited in Brussels. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] 29 ambassadors, a representative of NATO member states, unanimously called on Northern Macedonia to join the North Atlantic Treaty and to contribute to the security of all NATO members of the alliance as well as to the international order. Northern Macedonia will become a member of the NATO alliance as it lays down its accession rights to the US government in Washington. The adoption of this law, confirming the protocol, on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Croatia is agreed to call the Republic of Northern Macedonia and join the North Atlantic Treaty and become a full member of NATO. Northern Macedonia will become 30 NATO alliance members, most likely in 2019. Usually, this ratification process is assessed by the member states, the parliaments of the Member States last a year, it is estimated that this process could already be completed in this year. In the year when NATO marked 70 years of existence, NATO was formed, i.e. signed this contract, April 3rd, '49. Mr. NATO's alliance is the greatest, strongest, longest-ever military alliance in history. It is formed with a basic task of preserving peace and security by political and military means in the Member States. NATO notes what is important, NATO is founded on preserving the common values of democracy, freedom, the rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution. All members share these values as the principle of their policies, as well as the policy of regulating international relations or creating an international order on those values. The RS has been a NATO member since 1 April 2009, this year marks the 10th anniversary of NATO membership in early April of this year. On April 1st, then, the ambassador to the Republic's present-day presidency passed the NATO accession order in Washington, and this is the date since the official surrender of the Croatian NATO member. NATO membership has been one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia since its independence itself, and before the international recognition in the Croatian Parliament, Croatia's Development Strategy has been adopted, so after the adoption of the Constitution of Croatia and independence, membership in Euro-Atlantic integration has been designated as one of the primary objectives in order to achieve independence, but also additional own security. It is of particular interest for Croatia to continue NATO's enlargement policy with new members in order to achieve Europe's long-term stability. The membership of the Republic of Northern Macedonia in NATO contributes directly to the security and stability of Southeast Europe. We must be aware that now the only non-NATO countries in Southeast Europe are BiH, Kosovo and Serbia. With Macedonia's entry and accession, the Northern Macedonia NATO Alliance is changing the security environment and the Republic of Croatia itself. What is particularly necessary here to stress this is that NATO's basic task is not combat action, but preventative action. The very fact of the existence of such an alliance has a preventive effect on the security of the Member States, and there is also one fundamental provision often called upon by individual members, which is that NATO is obliged in the event of an aggression on a member to engage in its defence. It therefore acts preventively on the security of the Member States, both on the security of Europe and the EU, but also on the international order. Macedonia's integration into NATO membership also assumes additional efforts in this regard because Macedonia will also have to adapt to standards and democratic procedures but also to these standards required by the NATO Alliance to be actively involved in co-operation and to contribute to peace and stability not only to its own countries, but also to the international order. What needs to be pointed out in particular is that the NATO alliance's action is primarily in the political dimension. Today, this is too little emphasis, as is the fact of the importance of the parliamentary assembly of NATO member states. Croatia also has its own delegation, the Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, but also the work of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the Croatian delegation in the parliamentary assembly, unfortunately we speak too little in the assembly, we report at plenary sessions, so that the political dimension of NATO in both this assembly and the assembly is not too prominent. As already stated in NATO's already fundamental political values, the values of freedom, democracy, the rule of law and peaceful conflict resolution are. When we talk about these peace operations, but also if you want combat operations, then it should be reminded of the fact that the Croatian Parliament is '93. The year asked for UNPROFOR's mandate to be cancelled, and instead of UNPROFOR, Croatia refused to refuse to cooperate with the international community, so instead of UNPROFOR, it would call on NATO forces to address the problem of occupied, occupied areas. '93. The Croatian Parliament asked for this year, and in late '94. He made a decision to cancel UNPROFOR's mandate but until NATO's engagement in '94. and '95, respectively. It did not come because Croatia itself solved the problem of occupied areas with its military operations. Speaking of which, however, it should be said that NATO's first military operations outside NATO's territory were also in BiH in '94. that before that, NATO had not acted outside the territory of its member states. Today, the NATO alliance mainly operates, there are also combat operations, but they are small-scale, and it is primarily peace operations. What is more important to point out in view of this decision we are making today, is that NATO is today the only organization that can offer long-term stability and security to a number of countries, but also the stability of the international order precisely because the challenges on the one hand and threaten such a nature that no more member states are able to solve themselves, confront them, both because of the global reach and extent of these threats and threats, but also the necessary resources that are necessary to ensure all of that instrumentation that will provide a satisfactory system of security and defence. Therefore, NATO is developing modern strategies of doctrine in response to new and so far unknown forms of threats and warfare, constantly improving military capabilities, either at technical level, education or training of troops. Joint participation in arms costs is something that is not, which is necessary, necessary because whether we want it or not, security costs. Northern Macedonia has applied for NATO's accession to the alliance when and before the Republic of Macedonia, 10 years ago. Due to problems and disagreements over the name of the state that was removed in negotiations with Greece, also NATO member only 2019. a decision is made on the 30th member of the NATO Alliance. It took 10 years. to make such a decision and therefore we can regret, because of the length of the procedure, but we must also accept the fact that decisions are made in favour of both the security interests of Europe and Southeast Europe, even if they are delayed. Decisions are made through political and diplomatic means and roads, which is just another proof of the primary way the NATO alliance works. That is why it is necessary to support this law and the decision to make northern Macedonia the 30th member of the NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130616	We're going to the third Club of Representatives of the HNS, a respected colleague of Stjepan Curaj, please. Just a second ago, before you go, I would like to welcome all of us students and students and their professors of the Zagreb Education and Education Centre, the first group. Welcome! ... Here you go, colleague Curai. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130617	I thank the President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so I think that very briefly, we have here only 3 articles related to the accession and northern Macedonia to the NATO Alliance, absolutely the CNS Club will, of course, support this ratification or validation of that protocol, I think that membership in the NATO Alliance has above all no alternative and that it has brought to us what we need over time was the security and stability that we may now understand lightly, but we do not need to look back in history and realize that we live in Europe and then in the region, especially in the region that they previously called during the history of the powder barrel, I think it is well known what it means and that this goal of NATO membership is precisely the one with which it is founded 49. in Washington, which is to preserve peace and security by political and military means in the Member States, of course, that secondary goal is what is most interesting to us now, above all, here in front of the HNS Club, we welcome the Government in a spot reaction to the fact that we will first and among the first and confirm this protocol and thus send a message to our neighbours and friends in northern Macedonia, the Republic of Northern Macedonia that we are absolutely standing by them on their European path. And, of course, that this cooperation should be extended, that it should be developed, I will just remind myself of some of the things that unfortunately I have to say here too, maybe we haven't taken full advantage of, and that this is that NATO membership, as I said, brings certain secondary benefits, potentials, we need to know that the defence industry at over EUR 100 billion annually as regards consumption, and that there is certainly potential, and that the sectors are electronics, ammunition, weapons, military equipment, monitoring industry, therefore, pharmacies, shoes, textile industry, food industry, logistics, logistics, research and shipbuilding, therefore, ship-building, ship-building, service or ships, is certainly something that is the potential for what today is a key topic, and there is certainly a lot of room for Croatia where only passing the most quality products of course are at the lowest prices, construction of 49 countries, but we are sure that there are a great combination and we can be used to this great agreement and therefore, in terms of mutually. First of all, and impose ourselves informally as a leader in this region, with every new expansion, surely we open up greater opportunities for these secondary benefits, benefite, from economic-economic cooperation and that we need to be prepared for bilateral relations. Of course about relations within the alliance itself, it absolutely exploits it. And that's actually the next task we have to do all the time because we're doing membership ourselves, we've solved the basic goal, but we certainly need to know how to use it very well in all these secondary options that are offered and that's what has to be continuity, so we don't satisfy ourselves by being a member and that the alliance is expanding, that security is greater and more stability, than to take advantage of this economic aspect, then absolutely this alliance will get full meaning, and that's what I want to do here and I want to appeal here once again and remind you. So, to not go any further here, I think this opening is by fulfilling formal assumptions, as we have heard, the former Socialist Federal Republic of Macedonia, or the present Northern Macedonia, has been fulfilled and I welcome that we have discussed this already today and we will have opportunities to confirm this protocol and be the first to send a clear, unequivocal message to our neighbours on their European path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130618	It is now up to the club of GLAS and HSU representatives and respected colleague Vesna Pusic, isolate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130619	Thank you, Mr. President, ma'am. Secretary of State with an associate. Congratulations to the Republic of Northern Macedonia that we have reached this point. I think for our parliament, and of course, especially for Northern Macedonia, this is one historic moment. From the very beginning, Croatia felt that.../incomprehensible/... Macedonia, Northern Macedonia, whatever its name is, has been referred in different or official terms in different periods, that its place is under NATO's security umbrella that not only contributes to Sj's stability. Macedonia, as well as Sj. Macedonia contributes to the efficiency of the security union. We are also in Bucharest in 2008 when, when Croatia received the invitation, we felt that Macedonia was absolutely ready for membership and that it was due to receive an invitation because of a known name dispute. This did not happen, and for 10 years it went through quite a lot of turmoil, problems, conflicts, and even some of the surrealist policies that took place in Macedonia. I'd say by the time the patriots beat the nationalists. Or the patriotic discourse didn't win over the nationalist discourse. And until some people from different political parties and beliefs came along, who put the country's interest and security ahead of their own promotions and breakthroughs and succeeded in a great pawnage, so I would say with great courage to come to this point to defuse Sj. Macedonia from a situation of a frozen conflict that has been in place for more than 10 years. I don't think it's irrelevant, and in some ways it's been ignored, that this success has been achieved in common, so, as Sj. Macedonia is concerned, it was reached by Macedonian Macedonians and Macedonian Albanians. And that there wasn't that alliance that was also an ethnic alliance, Sj. Macedonia would also fail from that point of view, I think, too, to give recognition to Prime Minister Zajev and Defence Minister Shekerin and Foreign Minister Dimitrov, but also to Parliament Speaker Xhaferi, who at the crucial moment when they beat the prime minister, today and a member of the new government in his election as President of the Sobranie, who also played a very important role, and this community has led to the point that St. Macedonia today is in a position to ratify us, to ratify the Sj accession agreement across NATO member states. Macedonia to NATO. She showed courage and Prime Minister Alexis Cyprus's government because no matter what the objection came from Greece, he did not come from his government originally, it is not a conflict that he cooked up, but it is a conflict in which he made a strong contribution to this solution. What's NATO? NATO is a military political alliance whose main goal is, not to fight the war, but to avoid war. So, the main goal is to prevent war conflicts and the main goal is to harmonize the defence model between Member States. Known Art. 5 in an agreement based on NATO as an alliance, it obliges members to place everything in its defence in the event of a military attack on one. And that's what war conflicts are all about, the only commitment NATO provides. All others are left to Member States as far as NATO is in some conflict, to decide whether to participate or not. For countries in one thorny area, like Southeast Europe, with the history of Southeast Europe, as far as wars are concerned, conflicts and violent changes in the regime are concerned, there is one safety umbrella that prevents conflict because, on the other hand, if someone comes to mind that they would have some claim on small countries like us, there is not only this small country as we are, but it has an entire alliance. And that is why, as for Croatia, and for Northern Macedonia, it is absolutely of interest that this conflict prevention mechanism can be used and available. And I think it's quite inappropriate to claim that the train we boarded, but you don't board, you don't get on that train. It's easy to speak from the position of certain security guarantees. And therefore, if we consider Croatia to be a security guarantee with all difficulties, as we know nothing is ideal and nothing is forever, but until, while, it lasts and works for Croatia usable and useful, then we can only, with satisfaction and congratulations on political courage, so if you want political inventiveness, which Macedonian politicians have shown, I must mention here, only by the way, to base... The agreement, the state's name is Northern Macedonia, but Macedonians are called Macedonians, the language is called Macedonian. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, in all other integrations, Macedonian is used. It was not easy to implement the Zaveva Dimitrova, Shekarinska, Djaferi in Macedonia, but it was not easy to spend Cyprus in Greece either. And there were street demonstrations, shouting, betrayal, but when you know what you're doing, when you have a clear goal and you are on the side of peace and regional cooperation, then there's this kind of success. And today with great satisfaction and congratulations, we support as the GLAS Club and HSU ratification of the North Macedonia's NATO entry agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130620	We're going to the next debate, the Independent Advocacy Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130621	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, therefore, on a brief discussion, I would like to stress that the Independent Representatives' Club wants to support the ratification of this contract and, of course, we would like to join the predecessors, too, Pusic said in her presentation that the Republic of Northern Macedonia has made a lot of efforts to achieve this goal, which is to join the North Atlantic Alliance and later join the EU, and it was really not easy for them on that path. In some ways, they had to accept this compromise solution, by changing the name of their Republic, in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, and they managed to vote 2/3 of the majority in their Parliament and it was not a simple process process. On the other hand, the Republic of Greece, which has stalled them in their way, nevertheless, has been able to say to the political forces, that in its parliament it has voted with truth, a weak supremacy majority, but in half the majority to ratify their long-term accession path, because, as the proposing representative said in her opening speech, practically the Republic of Northern Macedonia, at the time, Macedonia was ready to join the NATO alliance even when it was the Republic of Macedonia. But now I want to expand this debate with another level, which concerns me more as a representative and as a citizen, which is in all the benefits that NATO's alliance provides in terms of security, in the sense that it doesn't happen tomorrow, that we or some other member of the attack, and that no one is doing anything, in this case we trust the NATO alliance to do anything to help in that case. I am concerned that we also have certain obligations, it is certainly the 2% of the GDP for the defence separation, which have been achieved as or have been announced as a target by 2025. However, the President of America said on one of the suspicions that it is not, that it is not 2% more, it is 4% detachment for defence and not in 2025, but immediately. As far as I've seen in the data, the Republic of Northern Macedonia at this point, I think that something above 1%, 1.2% of the defence separation, and the Republic of Northern Macedonia is about 2%, close to that goal, but for small countries, so significant, although for all countries in the process it's the same, for small countries it's not the same and simple, because that money should certainly be provided, and according to that contract, 20% of that money, it has to go precisely in defense preparedness. So these aren't small amounts and it should be kept in mind. I don't know how further things are going to develop in terms of these requirements, but I hope they don't get too tough, because 4% of the short-term separation as the President of the United States has announced, it's not a small amount, and hopefully it will be a small amount, and let's just say it's a conditional discount so that it doesn't happen in the future that it comes to me to say that it's the NATO Alliance's exits precisely because of the inability and respect for this decision. We congratulate the Republic of Northern Macedonia on its success, politically, it is true, they tried to implement the referendum, I say, the referendum was tried, but it did not come out, less than 40% of the citizens came out, but the referendum was accepted because it was an advisory character, it was not binding and of those slightly less than 40% of the people, the citizens that came out, and 90% of them voted to join NATO, so we can say that representatively if we extend the entire population there that the citizens of Northern Macedonia expressed their desire to join this alliance and on this road we wish to congratulate them and of course, we want all together to, as Mrs. Pusic, to ensure that the NATO alliance is a guarantee of peace conservation, that it must go into combat action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130622	Now it is the SDP's Club of Representatives, dear colleague Josko Klisovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130623	Thank you very much, President-in-Office of the Parliament. State Secretary and Associates. The SDP club will support the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty. With Macedonia together, we set out for Euro-Atlantic integration, Croatia has achieved its foreign-political, state and national goals, and Macedonia is only now slowly until it has resolved the previous issue that has burdened its accession to Euro-Atlantic integration, is moving on that path, and we wish it full happiness. Together we went into Euro-Atlantic integration because we had the same political orientation. After the collapse of the former Yugoslavia where we were also in the same positions, when we were founded as an independent state, the political orientations of our country and Macedonia coincided. And there should be no dilemmas about the referendum held in Macedonia today, that the referendum does not reflect the real political commitment of Macedonian citizens because their commitment has been Euro-Atlantic integration since the first day. And it is true that no more than 50% of people have come to the referendum but that does not mean that the referendum is not valid in accordance with Macedonian laws and all those who opposed entry or opposition to the agreement with Greece on the name, could also actively show that resistance and go to a referendum that was advised and show their political will. The second instance, of course, was in the Macedonian Parliament, but they did not do so, and it was in fact silently and agreeing with this decision in the referendum, or by jointly confirming with Greece the new name of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. The Republic of Macedonia has systematically provided continued support for NATO accession. We've been working bilaterally and within the US-Adriatic Charter. We'll continue to cooperate. I still believe that Macedonian officers will be educated at the Croatian Military School and that we will continue to have full cooperation both with defence and military. In 2012 and 2013, the Republic of Macedonia offered a Euro-Atlantic partnership that was just one legal framework for our common support policy on Macedonia's path to the EU and NATO, i.e. to meet all the conditions needed to allow Macedonia to join the EU and NATO. Macedonia itself has contributed to NATO's activities so far, as a partner of states and together with the Republic of Macedonia has participated in NATO missions both in Afghanistan and KFOR in Kosovo. Therefore, if Macedonia's active partner turns out to be ready to join NATO. With Macedonia's NATO entry, another gap in NATO's alliance will close, in this NATO body of the Southeast European alliance, which will further strengthen the collective security of all of us. We know that in these conditions of globalisation in which we live, that no one in isolation can ensure safety for their country and their citizens and thus also ensure the conditions for the overall development of the state because security certainly affects the overall development of the state. And Southeast Europe has always been as we know from history, a playground of great forces. Today we also have quite a lot of them here, whether with economic interests, big investments are there, either in the energy sector, whether they have served this area especially since the collapse of the former Yugoslavia as a political laboratory for new political models. So we've always been a playground of great forces, so this way when you show your own commitment to enter into one alliance, into one community of values, that's how you actually try to get out of such a historical perspective. NATO is a free choice of Macedonian citizens and should respect it as such, enter a new community of values and believe that they and all of us will be better off. With a name deal with Greece, Macedonia is finally ending a long-term stagnation either on the Euro-Atlantic road, either in the overall political, economic and social fields. This affirmation now opens up real opportunities for her lungs to start breathing in international relations and her lungs begin to work in all international forums where she has known to have certain problems. Croatia has recognised Macedonia among the first under constitutional name but we are glad that Macedonia, to agree with Greece on a new name, was done by the governments of Prime Ministers Cyprus and Zajev, so the left-wing governments who are always trying to find answers to the current issues and I believe that if the right hand comes to power tomorrow in any of these countries will not oust this agreement, but only in this whole process of agreement tried to strengthen its positions on the internal political plan by neglecting the important interests of its own country and its own peoples living in its area. The Macedonia case in any case shows how important good neighbourly relations are for each country, both for Macedonia and for Croatia and for each other. Macedonia itself has rather specific relations with its neighbours that will surely have to regulate and it is good that the main issue is regulated with the southern neighbour in this way and perhaps this is a good way to regulate and open issues with Bulgaria, with Serbia as well as with, as with Albania. It is good that Greece has first ratified the agreement by sending a good political message, and I am very glad that it is also the first one to ratify this agreement and thus send another message of friendship to the Macedonian people, to the Macedonian state, to the citizens of Macedonia, to welcome them to join NATO, and I believe that they are almost entering the EU because they are a community, they are communities of a country where Macedonia belongs and for which it has been de facto advocating itself since the beginning of its independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130624	We've come to the end of the debate by the clubs, now we're moving on to individual debates. The first is a colleague of Branimir Bunjac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130625	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Assembly, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, respected state secretaries with an associate, the NATO Alliance was founded for its own time defence against communism in 1949, and its function was practically to cease in 1989 by the fall of the Berlin Wall, the fall of communism in Eastern Europe, especially in the Soviet Union, by the disintegration of these states, including Yugoslavia, but we see that this NATO alliance has continued for the past 3 decades, not only to continue to be maintained, but it has continued and spread, and we must really ask ourselves for what reason. So what is today a threat to NATO's alliance for which it must exist, which is a threat to, say, Germany, which is a threat to, say, Croatia or the United States? There is no more communism in Russia, there is democracy, there is a market economy, the state is twice as small as the Soviet Union has far less influence than it had in the Warsaw Pact, but this is what we are still talking about as Russia is our enemy. Russia has never in history attacked Croatia, never, but that's why Croatia was constantly attacking Russia in the service of foreign masters. We had a Croatian army in Napoleon's great army attacked Russia, we had Croatian legions in Pavelic's army that attacked Russia, we had a Croatian army in the Austro-Hungarian army that attacked Russia, and I think Russia should worry about us rather than us. They say our enemies are like Muslims. Why would they be our enemies? Why would they declare one faith and one nation and one race to the enemy of mankind for what reason? You say war against ISIL, who created ISIL, the American administration, who created Al-Qaeda, so you know who, Washington. There's a fairy tale about how I don't know three bums off the street, with $100 in my pocket I can attack I don't know New York. Is that possible, is it possible I don't know that the football club Sesvete beats Barcelona on Noa Camp, is that realistic? To attack a country that invests, I don't know five thousand billion dollars in defense, which has a satellite shield, which has 10,000 atomic bombs, 4,000 F16 planes and four million active soldiers in the NATO alliance, to be attacked by a couple of splinters of mountains in Afghanistan. I don't think that's possible. In my opinion, it's possible for the NKS to beat Barcelona at No Camp only to let Barcelona score. And that specifically means that America creates enemies, invents them, only to take away their resources from these nations. And that's the policy that's been going on since the U.S. was created, remember those images you've seen in history books, I give you mirrores, you give me five kilos of gold. That's the policy. As it's done at the end and in many other segments of society, you have, I don't know, here's one month of free Internet, and after that, the execution and the blocking of accounts, or here's 100 kuna on the American card, and then you'll be out of a house. As a fol some small favor you got, but in the long run you're just at a loss. Which brought NATO's intervention to Afghanistan after 17.../incomprehensible/... 17 years of war, every year 10,000 dead, every year. Which brought NATO's intervention to Libya, 50,000 dead, a sea of refugees from Africa now crossing the Mediterranean, the Mediterranean. In Iraq 1,200,000 people killed, from democracy and d, the economy was completely destroyed, even the culture of old Mesopotamia, the old world museums were robbed, archaeological sites. What brought war to Syria? 500 thousand killed in a country that was five times safer for a stranger than the United States where you could walk at 4 a.m. in the streets of the city 100% safe, let's walk, I don't know, in New York, at the same time. NATO's alliance policy has created 20 million refugees and emigrants now heading towards Europe, these are the results. What do you think all those dead people I've just listed aren't you responsible for that? You mean, I didn't see it, so it didn't happen, and it happened. Hundreds of thousands of innocent people were killed under NATO hat, and you applaud it. Totally uncritical. Why? Because you're afraid. Because you're selfish. Because you're working on creating a world where I have to push someone to make me happy. I can only be rich if someone's poor. I can be happy if someone's unhappy. I have to say, I'm, I don't know, a Croat, a Catholic, a Međimurec, I don't know, taking 100 identities to then declare all other identities hostile. Says Mr. Klisovic, we're left-handed. Whichever left is supported by the NATO alliance anywhere in the world, give me one. Is he supporting, I don't know, Venezuela, Cuba, China, these are your left-wing countries. They don't support it. What are the NATO alliance doing? Just inventing some countries called North, they created North Korea, now they create North Vietnam, today they create Northern Macedonia, tomorrow they will be northern Kosovo, what will be the day after tomorrow, Northern Croatia? The map is being mapped out, so do you see what kind of map they've made for the division of the territory between Serbia and Kosovo? So are you aware that you are pushing this decision-making area of the Balkans into a new war? Do you know what will happen if territory is exchanged between the two sovereign states? Do you know what this will mean for Montenegro, in the Sandzak area, in BiH, Republika Srpska? Dear Mr. Representatives. Let's start thinking like people once. Leave all these military plans, all those weapons, turn around, realize that you're involved in a dark project, inform yourself of war crimes, of the victims that are happening in the world today. Understand that the withdrawal, I don't know, from the nuclear agreement with Iran, that the withdrawal from the nuclear agreement with Russia, that sending Croatian soldiers to the Russian border, Afghanistan, Iraq, is not only in the interest of the Croatian people, but of all humanity. It's a policy that serves imperialism, not defense. The NATO alliance has never been attacked, none of its members will be. Therefore, the Living Wall strongly opposes any expansion of NATO, the accession of Northern Macedonia to NATO, and we also oppose Croatian membership in NATO because a referendum has never been carried out because the decision was taken by corrupt politicians in this high house, and if a referendum was called, we guarantee you that the Croatian people with a large majority would refuse to participate in something so shameful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130626	Thank you for your presentation, we have 4 replicas, but first let me welcome the students of the Centre for Education and Education, welcome and welcome them. Thank you. ... And of course, teachers, teachers, teachers and teachers, I apologize. [[Applause.]] We can start with the replicas. So, he's his first colleague, Josko Klisovic, here's a colleague, Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130627	Thank you very much. You ask Mr. Bunjac, which left could support NATO. So she's the responsible left, she's responsible for the safety of her citizens. Responsible for the security of your own country. I wonder if there would have been a war in the '90s if we had been a member of NATO. You say no one attacked a NATO member, so of course not, knows who he'd be dealing with. What alliance you'd be dealing with. It is a responsibility to the security of citizens and the prosperity of the country. In your presentation, you said, word is, word is, so that no arguments are being built politically or a serious policy is being built. It is said that NATO considers Muslims to be enemies. Where did you read that, in which NATO document that Muslims were enemies? Why should Muslims be enemies? For what? Both Croatia or NATO or any other NATO member. Don't throw the weights upside down. Creating divisions and wars between peoples, nations and religions.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130628	Thank you, colleague Klisovic. Time. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130629	The responsible left in Croatia, as far as I can see, has lost more than half of its rating in just 2 years. That should make you think a little bit about the policy you're running. left. I think your voices went to some other, quasi leftists again, and as far as your story of the NATO alliance and the role in the war in Yugoslavia is concerned, I remind you that on the 25th of06.1991 James Baker came to Belgrade and gave permission to start a war with Yugoslavia. It was the idea of NATO's alliance, the NATO alliance advocated the maintenance of Yugoslavia. And only when they saw that Serbia couldn't win Croatia then changed the board and said to be an independent Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130630	Thank you. Replica No. My third colleague, Curai. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130631	Thank you, Vice President. Dear counterpart Bunjac, we should all actually respect the right to a different opinion, to someone else's opinion. I certainly don't think you're inhuman or human because you might have a different opinion and I'd like you to apply yourself to others because you're calling someone that they're not human and that they don't think the same way. Because I could tell you that here you are, in fact, representing the interests of, say, Russia. And that you work here directly in the interest of Russia and that you want to join Croatia to Russia. It's at the level of your arguments, it's not true, I say right now, I don't think it but going so far in such qualifications I don't think it's good. And I respect your right to think differently about democratic rights but then don't call other people's opinions that they are inhumans or I don't know what they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130632	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130633	Thank you very much, Mr. Curaj. So that statement of yours is so funny, it doesn't even deserve a comment. But what I want to point out is that the NATO alliance kills hundreds of thousands of innocent civilians. I don't want to have anything to do with it, Mr. Chury or my colleagues from the Living Wall. My hands are clean and my dream is quiet and you just keep your hands up for these NATO interventions, just keep your hands up for the bombings, just keep your hands up for the heads cut off and I don't know what Saudi Arabia is doing under NATO and ISIL's supervision and I don't know who they've all created, and you think it'll never come back to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130634	Thank you. Replica No. 3. Be my guest, Mišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130635	Thank you, Vice-President Bunjac, I don't understand you as a historian, when you talk about NATO and talk about some kind of, in fact, that there are no enemies in this world, approximately like that, you know or say that the Croats attacked Russia and the Russians didn't attack Croatia. And you know for yourself that in this war that we have now had in '91. In the year, the Russians did not come to set up and try to help BiH and Croatia, they did not because they watched and watched what would happen. So we need to know that NATO is holding one stability to the world. And today Pakistan and India, God forbid war, millions of people would die if there was no control from the world trying to calm down this whole situation. And I don't understand what you're talking about when you're talking about no progress, as soon as... The borders have some people, some people have pretenses on some parts of the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, someone must keep the balance in this world and therefore, of course, that help...... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130636	Thank you. Here's your colleague's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130637	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Misic, I see your brain has been washed out with NATO propaganda. If you didn't know Russia confessed to Croatia before the United States. The Russians have just informed President Tudjman that Serbs are planning an attack on the Ban Courts, so he was able to withdraw in time from the Ban Courts and not James Baker. Russian journalists have just gone to warring areas on the Croatian side, reported to their public what was going on in the Homeland War, and the Chetniks have just killed Russian journalists who did it but you simply cannot reach that information because you simply blindly follow one direction that you think will benefit from yourself. But this policy of cowardice, this policy of irresponsibility will only bring to Croatia immense damage over the decades ahead, and may it be for everyone, then, to the soul of what policy he has represented today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130638	Thank you. And the last replica, Comrade Pernar, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130639	Dear Representative Bunjac, we see for ourselves what the consequences of the NATO Pact are, we see in Syria, we see in Libya, we see in Iraq, we see in Afghanistan. These are all failed countries, or destroyed countries, ruined countries. Their residents were killed. However, NATO remains mantra about the spread of democracy on human rights, freedoms, etc. So here I'm asking you how is it that NATO doesn't intervene in occupied Palestine and free the Palestinians from an occupation that lasts 70 years and doesn't actually stop the violation of all human rights and doesn't actually establish democracy, that these people have the right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130640	Thank you for your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130641	Thank you very much. So America works in a way of creating a banana republic. So it was known that in South America governments are being placed depending on who is ready to export to the United States bananas or not. And that's how your interests work, too, today it's in the Middle East. If you figuratively want to buy American bananas then you can do whatever you want, you can be Hitler with your head, but if you don't want to buy American bananas, then they'll come up with every possible way to bring you down from power and most effectively send you a NATO alliance in intervention. This is what is very bad that the inhabitants of Libya and Syria, and even Iraq and Afghanistan, lived far more peaceful, far more prosperous and better before American democracy came to them under NATO's guns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130642	Thank you. We're done with the replicas. Here's your buddy, Grmo.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130643	Thank you, Vice President. I'm looking for a 10-minute break to consult with the club. I'm here now at the foreign ministry's site, watching signs of NATO's values. So NATO is an alliance of countries that share common values such as the democratic system of government, respect for human rights and freedoms, the rule of law, the rule of law and the market economy on my question, this morning, the State Secretary, the repairs brought by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or, the minister, said that the rule is exactly what it should be, although it is said in that regulation, that a person for the Constitution guaranteed the right to free expression should seek consent. It's a blow to the Croatian Constitution, it's a blow to the rule of law, it's a blow to freedom of speech, it's a blow to human rights, to all the values of NATO alliances that I have read here and that are listed on the website of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. Count yourself together, understand what you've done, in fear of disclosing the illegal spending of money in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. You've changed the rules. This is the kind of rule you've never had in the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. And best of all, there is no ministry in the Croatian government, or in the government of Andrej Plenkovic. This is inadmissible, you are violating freedom of speech, hundreds of employees, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs. It cannot be asked for the consent of the party commissioners to state your position on the weather today, on our Eurosong representative or on anything else, and you have done it with this rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130644	Thank you. So, I approve a recess until 11.25 a.m. for the consultation of the Most Club on the final proposal of the Law on the approval of the Protocol on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Treaty. Thank you. It's 11:00. 12 o'clock. [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING IN 11.25 HOURS]] Let's go with the individual debate, colleague Ivan Pernar, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130646	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the presentation of my colleagues, Bunjca, he has looked back on what I did in my presentation, which is that NATO does not spread peace, but war, not to spread democracy, but rather to wage a war against democracy and ultimately that NATO does not advocate the rule of law but violates every international law. A fellow Bunjac cited many examples, he cited examples of cancer, a war in Syria where NATO was actually involved in the conflict, he cited an example of a war in Libya where NATO broke down an orderly state and de facto pushed it back into the stone age. We can also see the action of the United States and NATO itself and in Iraq, the country being destroyed has created a disaster both social and other, and in the end we saw in Afghanistan, the war going on there will soon be this war longer than the Vietnam War with no chance of finding military solutions. Now we see that there is actually no military solution. However, it is precisely this false thesis that America and NATO are fighting for human rights democracy that falls the most on the example of Palestine. So it's about the country and the people who have been living under occupation for 70 years, who have been taken away from all their human and civil rights, it's about a people who are literally oppressed, and instead of helping America and the West with the oppressed and the oppressed, those billions of dollars in arms and everything else are helping the occupation and the oppressor. And although Israel violates all possible UN Security Council resolutions among other 242 that must be withdrawn from the West Coast or, say, 4 I think it is 497 that must be withdrawn from the Golan Highlands belonging to Syria, simply America and NATO are fucking with them for all of this, for their sovereignty of the countries, for human rights, etc. But all the arguments we make here today, gentlemen from and representing that elite, that narrow minority that encamped at the top of the government, they don't care. So I have a feeling, Mr. Bunjac, that we're talking to them for five more days about the consequences of these NATO interventions so that they don't change their hearts or that no rational argument, reasonablely on their hearts, is working. So I'm going to draw out another argument that's slightly unconventional, and it's about NATO's declared motto being peace and security. That's what NATO claims it's spreading, that's what NATO claims it's giving. Listen to this in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and you do not need to write about the times and periods of the brothers, for you yourselves know well that the day of the Lord comes just as a thief in the night, or that when they speak peace and security then sudden destruction will come upon them, and you brothers are not in darkness to find you that day as he would have found thieves; for you are all sons of light and sons of day, we belong neither night nor darkness. Why am I telling you this, so that you can understand that those who in these last days convince everyone, the whole public to worship those who spread peace and security and that they will establish some kind of eternal peace in this world, is my duty and political and human warning our people to lie to them. So NATO will not establish peace and security in this world, neither now nor in the future, but rather the constant wars that NATO is waging on the one hand, and on the other hand, the manoeuvring of the paragraph of peace and security are actually means that we are living in the last days and that in fact our people are being deceived and deceived. He is deceived and deceived by those who pretend to care for faith from those who display themselves as Christians, or Jesus ’ followers, and who pray for God’s presence soon. The nation has been deceived by those who pay hundreds of millions of kuna to the Catholic Church each year, and in fact all Christian principles deny it. One of the Christian principles is freedom, peace, love, democracy with these NATO principles has nothing to do with it. I explained why, and in my speech, what I'm doing on behalf of the club. Dear Croatian citizens, distinguished Croatian peoples please open your eyes and realize that you are the victim of false teachers and false teachings. Those teachers who convince you in some way and like everything will be fine, and it is clear that the direction in which Croatia goes and in which America and NATO lead the world is not good. If there were serious problems related to NATO, I will give you one only, before the US intervention in Afghanistan annually in Germany there were 5,000 refugees from Afghanistan, after the US intervention it was 2017 that 125,000 refugees from Afghanistan came to Germany. So NATO created a refugee crisis that we can see in Bihac, we can see in the Un-San canton and, these waves, and the great movements of the population are actually initiated by these very American imperialist wars, exactly the one in Afghanistan, exactly the one in Syria, exactly the one in Iraq. And you know it's been a terrible disaster in Libya for a long time. And it was because of this intervention and what was broken down that many went through, actually fled from Libya through the Mediterranean, and many lost their lives in that way. Unfortunately, as I said, we can speak here rational arguments, reasonable arguments, all obvious, I dare say tangible, tangible arguments. However, while we are shouting out loud and these do not hear us, I have now said one religious argument, I told them that NATO is not our only hope, that NATO is not the one who brings peace and security to the country, that NATO is doing everything contrary to what it declares. And according to the Bible, only Jesus Christ can bring peace and justice to this world and not NATO bombs to smart and stupid, cruise missiles, coups, tanks, etc. Already in advance, the Bible says that peace in this world will be brought to say in a miraculous way by God’s action, not by Donald Trump and the American administration. Those who believe that America will bring peace, security, freedom, stability to the world so let them look at the life of the Palestinians under occupation, I was there, I was in Ramali, Hebron, Bethlehem, Nablus, Jerusalem. I've seen what this democracy looks like, I've seen racial segregation, I've seen that there are, say, roads that are only for the Israelis and those that are for the Palestinians. I saw there's a street in Hebron where the Palestinians can't walk and when I asked the Israeli soldier if the Palestinians can walk that street, or if there's a sign that they can't, he says there's no sign but they know well they can't. And so are relations in NATO. So we're all equal, of course we all have equal rights, of course we all co-determin and in fact what happens when it was a NATO summit, it was a Montenegrin prime minister or president there, I think the president, just pushed him hard and actually showed him who's in charge, who's in charge, and what he, what, how important that Montenegrin's opinion was. The opinion of the Macedonians about what NATO is going to do is also irrelevant to America, and in fact NATO cannot bring democracy to others, but neither does NATO itself, because everyone's opinion is not valid there, the same is the relationship subordinated/supervised and I would dare say that it is one dictatorship of the vast capital of corporateism and of American imperialism that wants to enslave the whole world. For this reason, I oppose membership, or not only Macedonia in NATO, but also my own countries, or our country of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130647	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit, first colleague Ivan Kirin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130648	Your Honor, Vice President. Dear MPs are discussing the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to NATO. So what was Macedonia through history, through ancient Greece? Who was Alexander of Macedonia, whether he was Greek or something, it is possible to determine the genome of Macedonians or citizens of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. So regardless of the geneticity of the inhabitants, the political policy of leadership and the people is wise to accept and understand the current political moment. Do you think the Republic of Northern Macedonia has made the right decision?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130649	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130650	The Republic of Macedonia, or Macedonians, made the right decision in the referendum. And the Macedonians rejected the contract they had been imposed on them in a referendum. The contract was rejected by the Macedonian president, and he also made the right decision, however, in Sober, came to say political trade, said the president of the VMRO-DPMNE party that if it was blackmailed and pressured to come precisely from the NATO Alliance, to his MPs who had betrayed the voters they represented, voters who rejected the referendum and actually moved to the opposite side of the political arena. So Macedonia has never made a decision to join NATO, the Macedonian people have rejected it as much as possible, but Macedonia has been pushed into it by political schemes and tricks.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130651	Thank you, colleague Pernar. The replica of my colleague, Bunjac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130652	Thank you very much, Mr. Pernar. So you mentioned NATO intervention in Libya and Libya President Gaddafi became president when the population was illiterate in Libya and at the moment he was attacked by 25% of Libyans had a college degree. In Libya there were free education and free healthcare, no interest on loans and people had free electricity. Today, Libyans have no electricity at all, live without electricity, live in a country where dozens of militias and paramilitary groups are at war. And even those who participated in the destruction of Gaddafi, today they publicly regret what they did, say that it was the biggest mistake of their lives. So much for the success of NATO interventions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130653	Thank you. Here's your answer, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130654	Dear Representative Bunjac, I'm sure we're walking the streets of Benghazi or Tripoli, and we'd ask people if they'd prefer Gaddafi's power, which the West called a dictatorship, so I'll say here the Gaddafi dictatorship or the American democracy, I'm sure the vast majority of what the West is offering and the godlike dictatorship of Gaddafi would choose exactly Gaddafi's rule. Why? Because Gaddafi, who cared for the people, cared for the people, and America didn't care about the Libyans, or the Palestinians, or the Iraqis, or the Syrians, or the Macedonians, or the Albanians, or us. And the greatest evidence of this is the pollination of Kosovo and Serbia, impoverished by uranium, toxic metal, mutragene, tetrageneous, which has led to carcinogenicity, which has led to numerous deaths. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130655	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Miro Kovac, here you go, colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130656	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have already heard on behalf of the HDZ Club a colleague of Tudjman spoke and of course I agree and support the proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act under the North Atlantic Accession Treaty of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Why do I think that as a representative? Because in the first place, I always take the interest of our political community called Croatia. What is in Croatian interest? It is in the Croatian interest to have peace, security, well-being in our political community, for example. John Lock wrote in 1690, and we are interested in having peace, security and prosperity in our neighborhood. Now that we look at that neighborhood, I mean specifically this southeast, this in the northwest is mostly covered by NATO membership and membership in the EU, then we see that only the rest of NATO's alliances are Serbia, BiH and Kosovo. 50% of the former Yugoslavia is in NATO's alliance. And this entry of Macedonia, Northern Macedonia into NATO, will contribute to strengthening peace, security and the possibility of creating prosperity in the northeastern Europe, which is in our Croatian interest. We see that it means that this space of uncertainty and uncertainty reduces whatever anyone has said or spoken of insecurely, insecurely, in Southeast Europe is shrinking. So he remains limited to for now, to Serbia, to BiH and Kosovo. It's a big thing, given that there's a mood in Kosovo, it's still a long way from joining NATO's alliance one day and seeing that in one part, you'd dare say, most of the population and political leadership of the BIH also have the will to bring the NATO alliance closer. So the only remaining state, where you have most for now, at least which is against joining NATO is Serbia. And the reduction of uncertainty and uncertainty is good news, not only for Croatia, so I am not afraid of possible repercussions if there is a correction of the borders between Serbia and Kosovo. Why? Because that space is surrounded by the member states of the NATO alliance. There is, in particular, Kosovo, Montenegro, Albania, when we talk about Serbia, Bulgaria, Romania, Northern Macedonia, Hungary and Croatia. What concerns me more is that we who are members of the EU, when I speak to us, think of the EU itself, fail to have a key word on the European continent when it comes to crisis management. There, unfortunately, the EU has failed to impose itself on crisis management until now. When the war against Slovenia and Croatia took place, the European Community then assumed the role of crisis manager. We remember those ice creamers, however, the European Community has failed to impose itself, as a factor that will solve the crisis. We were at the time fighting for recognition of the European Community, so we got it, but only the entry of the Americans into the game, we managed to solve in Croatia the issue of liberating our occupied areas and there was the release of large parts of the BIH and therefore, in addition to the action of the Croatian Army and the BIH army, about the BiH itself, where the Americans as the leading force of the NATO alliance maintained such an approach. If the Americans hadn't sent their forces to Macedonia 20 years ago, who knows what would have happened. So I support this process of spreading NATO alliances in the field of the European Committee, but I would like to ask and ask our partners in the EU to come to their senses and that, in addition to some big stories, it really goes into the formation of a consciousness that on the European continent, the EU is a leading force and that it is the one that will manage the crises. That's not the case so far. I mentioned what is happening at the Kosovo-Serbian route,... Speculations are being played on various media, specifically in Serbia, who, in some ways, is being placed there as a godfather, as a sponsor? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] U.S.A. If a solution is found that will be stable and will make it very clear that this must not apply to BiH, I consider it personally positive, but at the same time I say it is bad that the EU does not have a more active role, the EU, its large member states, have no consensus on this and we are back to the situation 25, 26 years ago when in the case of Croatia, there was a large country that was for the recognition of Croatia, and the other two major countries were the counterrecognitions of Croatia, in the end there was a consensus. So, S. Macedonia and its NATO accession alliance, for the Republic of Croatia, I am talking about the Croatian national interest is a positive thing, a positive thing for Southeast Europe itself, and for the European continent itself. What we should begin to do, as well as Croatian representatives, as well as Croatian authorities, tell our colleagues in the EU that we need to wake up and start caring more actively, take care of European security. It is nice to sit in Zagreb, in Brookselles, in Paris, in Berlin, in Rome and to smarten up Americans about how they only care about their interests, not our interests, so some claim, while not being ready to engage in the security plan anymore. We all have responsibility for the European continent, and we here in Croatia will especially engage where we can and where our influence makes sense. It has a concrete purpose in the field of Southeast Europe because it is about our immediate neighbourhood. That is where we have to show engagement, we must show activity with proposals, with ideas and we should not be afraid, nor should we, as we already are present in Kosovo and militaryly help when it comes to maintaining security, maintaining peace, maintaining stability in that part of Europe. Sj. Macedonia had a chance to join the NATO alliance 10 years ago, then it failed. We discussed it yesterday on the Committee on Foreign Policy, so we shared each of our memories. It is bad that it is lost, if I may say so for 10 years, but it is now important that the opening of the negotiations of Sj happen very quickly. Macedonia on EU membership and this will contribute to strengthening peace, security and the possibility of creating prosperity not only in the country, but also beyond. The Republic of Croatia has, too, although we are not a large, large country, we are not even small, has co-responsibility for the situation on the European continent, and sometimes our colleagues are not active enough, I think that our partners in the EU should be told. They need to be told. We're not supposed to say what's not right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130657	Thank you, too. We have five replicas on your exhibit. So, the first one's a colleague of Pernar's, after he's a colleague of Stier's. Here you go, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130658	Dear Representative Kovac. I have listened to your presentations and I must tell you that you have not impressed me because the system that you are protecting and advocating here, which you claim will bring peace and security to the earth, democracy, etc., is described in Revelations 18 and 19. It says there, and it is called Babylon, and it says that this system will fall and say that these earthly rulers who are in cahoots with him who are actually in rebellion against the truth, against justice, that they are facing a black fate. And I must tell you that if you continue to engage for NATO, for robbery, for destruction of countries, for war against democracy, or national will, and in fact for economic exploitation and enslavement of the people, read Revelation 19 which may welcome you, or what awaits you if that is true, if you are a believer, Fear should be more justified on your part. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130659	Thank you. Thank you. Answer, here's your colleague Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130660	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, dear colleague Pernar, I haven't thought about coming to you for confession, I mean, I'm thinking more, maybe you take me as a sinner and forgive me for my sins because I stand for what? I stand for peace, security and prosperity. It means my fundamental interest as a man from this political community called Croatia. I think about Croatia first and after what is important for Croatia, and for Croatia it is important that we have a peaceful environment, that we have security and that we can develop our society in a way that we can be creative and competitive in the international market in the long term. And if I might change my mind and ask you for a confession, I'll get back to you. Thank you very much, colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130661	Thank you. Next up is my colleague Stier, after he's a colleague of Tudjman's. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130662	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is counterpart Kovac, indeed, in our national interest that NATO also expands to Sj. Macedonia, we had there so-called. the contact embassy that received Macedonian colleagues to do so. As we supported Montenegro's entry, and contrary to those who were trying to prevent exactly this expansion of the NATO alliance, and we saw what happened when Macedonia was blocked in those 10 years, it did not contribute to the development of democracy, nor to the development of human rights, nor was it a better situation from a security point of view. Therefore, I think those arguments point to the correctness of this decision to call, now Sj. Macedonia to join The alliance. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130663	Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130664	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear fellow Stier, we do not have to be surprised that there are forces who want to spread their influence, it is natural, but we also need to appreciate that we want to spread our influence, when I say my own, then I mean the political West to which Croatia belongs and by my own will. We decided in the 1990s not only for freedom, democracy, independence, the market economy, but also for Croatia's entry into the European community, later NATO accession. So we are part of the political West, which is largely composed of two forces if you will, the United States and the EU, and only together can we provide peace and security for ourselves long-term, and I am convinced of our... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130665	Thank you. The next replica is a colleague of Tudjman's, followed by a colleague of Bulj. Here you go, Comrade Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130666	counterpart Kovac, you stressed that Serbia, Kosovo and BiH are not members of NATO, however, and that picture was not so black and white as we know it, we are together in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly to sit there and the Serbian representative because... Serbia's partnership for peace membership and they argue they have more exercises with NATO in their territory than with some other countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is important to stress because we are here today, we have advocates who do not know the facts and relations because being in NATO or the EU does not mean being under a hat or dominated by anyone but simply means agreeing to common values by which we resolve our own interests or conflicts and the clear fact that there are conflicts and different attitudes between NATO and the EU alike, so one thesis is simply one issue of totalitarian opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130667	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130668	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Col. Tudjman, exactly, means we know from our experience and contacts with colleagues from the Republic of Serbia that we really have a lot of NATO activities with the Republic of Serbia, with the OSCE in the Republic of Serbia, but what is more important, if this agreement is spoken of in a large way and written on a large scale in the press between Kosovo and Serbia, then it will again be largely influenced by the political West. And if such an agreement happens, then it will reduce space, further reduce the space of uncertainty and instability in Southeast Europe, then there may be progress in BiH towards NATO membership in the first step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130669	Thank you, too. Here's my colleague Bulj, and after him, colleague Kleman. A fellow Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130670	Thank you very much. counterpart Kovac, he would agree with you that you should look at the meaning of the Republic of Croatia's interest and that is the centre of us mainly in the Assembly, however, he would not agree with you in this work that you said that NATO and the United States, that those who gave the possibility of freedom in this area, is not at that time that the Secretary of State would not have come to BiH in 1991. Mr. to support the great Serbian politics of Slobodan Milosevic, with which he strengthened essentially that conflict and gave wings to that large Serb policy. So there was also the Croatian defender, the Croatian soldier prevented, he is the key, he prevented major crimes in BiH than they were in Bihać when Ratko Mladic hit Srebrenica, that then the Croatian soldier gave the greatest pain and the Croatian soldier was the most deserved, American diplomacy and NATO, that they wanted to prevent the conflicts, they could have prevented but they didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130671	My friend Bulj, thank you. Here you go, Comrade Kovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130672	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Bulj, I agree with you, the American policy was in the early 1990s for the preservation of Yugoslavia, but the newly elected Croatian leadership led by President Tudjman was firm in the position of achieving Croatian independence, we eventually had a consensus in all Croatian society on this plan and thanks to this political will of the Croatian people, Croatian political leadership and, of course, Croatian defenders like you and many other Americans changed their course. And that shows that what matters most? The most important thing is the will of the people, the will of the political leadership, we have led the Americans to change their attitude and we later had Americans as partners when it comes to liberating occupied areas, especially BiH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130673	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure, colleague Kleman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130674	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Kovac, here today you have said an interesting thesis that the EU has not responded effectively in crisis areas in Europe and the world, if you will. In light of this latest summit on security in Munchen, there were some remarks from EU leaders where even estimates were heard that such a world order was falling apart and that it would have to be redefined on a new basis. Sam and the Prime Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, in this regard, had an exhibition, and here is the time for the EU to really put itself in security in terms of being an entity with both NATO and NATO, and will eventually have to redefine the absolute and political and security role of NATO in the world?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130675	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130676	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Kleman, of course he'll be able to redefine, which is what's happening right now, whether some of them want it or not. The biggest challenge, of course, is this relationship between us here in Europe and the United States, and we are together in a large Euro-Atlantic family, which has happened, we have got new actors like China but the European community, later the EU is emancipated. It is largely under the allegations of U.S. lobbying in the 1950s, after World War II, when Europe was in ruins in the meantime, the EU and the European Community have turned into the EU and it is emancipated and is becoming an equal America today. Now, we have to find a new modus.../incomprehensible... with the Americans to agree on who's doing what. But what is crucial is to do everything to stay in that Euro-Atlantic family that is the biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130677	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next is my colleague Miro Bulj, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130678	Thank you well-respected chairman, I think it is a legitimate question towards here.../incomprehensible/... means in Northern Macedonia where we Assembly representatives will try to make a decision on the ratification of this agreement, but it is a legitimate question heard and by which NATO's alliance is critically observed, of course, debated and not a tribune all those who view critically as enemies or those who are for NATO that these are the same enemies. However, I would legitimately ask several questions also to the mostly respected secretary. For what? Is a Croatian soldier, now I will talk about it, the Croatian soldier is in all missions of peace, war areas and that Croatia is making a great contribution to the issue of its forces, its armies. Al is the fact that we have one problem with the diplomacy of these relations that our government's strategic goal or project of decades or centuries means preserving the ability of the armed forces to have fighter aircraft, and we are calling here as some important factors in this area of our former, state-owned territory of the former state of Yugoslavia, as if we are some kind of leader, but I always question what diplomacy has been doing all this time and why the Croatian Army has not been given the opportunity to buy these planes. Where our diplomacy was, when we have so much partnership we are connected to the United States, we see the president often leaving the United States, we call on NATO, and we give a large number of soldiers in missions for wars that we are not even Croatians guilty of, we are not guilty of war or war in Libya, because we need to know that the whole of Libya down to Iraq simply no longer has states, down no territory, the Croatian soldier is not guilty, not guilty of Afghanistan either, but let us give our sons, our soldiers to do their homework. So here's the minister why diplomacy failed to achieve a strategic goal, and we're a NATO member so we can control our skies? Which is why, when we are calling on the EU, NATO, for Euro-Atlantic integration into the EU of our neighbouring country which is also in NATO, which has not been accepted by the Marrakek compact in the EU, Croatia, I asked Commissioner Jurova in, several days ago, which is why they are not neighbouring meanings of the countries that have accepted the Marrakech compact in NATO, our Minister for Internal Affairs was. So the Croatian Triba sees its interest and observes it in the best way because it's terrible to see how Vucic behaves, the president of Serbia who is also a member of the European People's Party, in which we have our HDZ colleagues who say that I will be driving Croats first. But the Russians, he got helicopters from the Russians, and he says here the secretaries that Serbia is headed with Vukic is working well with NATO. Which was that message from Vukic, and yet with a smile he said, I'll take you for a ride, you may have been given the opportunity to take you on those fighter planes. I don't think we're tripping, I'm not representing here, I'm not representing the Russian interests, I'm not looking at the American interests, I'm looking at Croatia alone. So Vucic is a good, acceptable partner who does not meet any obligations towards the Republic of Croatia that he had to fulfil at all in order to open any chapter in the negotiations towards the EU and that any support given by the Republic of Croatia, and he has been given to MI35 combating these helicopters, combat-journal acquisitions from Russia, and we have been stopped by our partners whom you are calling and deprived of the ability of our Croatian military because the purchase of fighter aircraft in the business of the century because diplomacy has done a bad job. The U.S. was for the Marrakek compact, and here I'm curious to know if it was Austria, was it Italy, was it Hungary? What is Croatia's interest in not having the strength and courage to rule out the economic belt, so we don't have the strength of our territory what the Council of Europe tells us, what we have the right to do in '82. In the year, the UN council said that it has a co-signator of the former state, that we have the right to declare an exclusive economic belt. We don't have the strength because what Tajani, the fascist Tajani who owns Dalmatia and Ista, and a great friend of the head of this government, Andrej Plenkovic. Where is Croatia, how is Croatia acting here? Whose interests we protect, to whom we attach, have we really given partners to Brussels, Washington or to whom we are all or their servants only, do we protect national interests? If we do not have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt, and the territory is both land and sea and water means, which we protect on land, we must protect the sea, we do not have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt because this government is afraid of Tajani, as Tajani and others will say. I'm going to point out again a fascist like the Wolf's Chetnik, but here you are in the same party at European level, so I believe you have good contacts and that you can solve this problem. The fact is that the Croatian state gives its soldiers to NATO missions, its sons, is the fact that the Republic of Croatia asked for the purchase of aircraft, that Croatian diplomacy did not fight that the Croatian soldier has this ability and you made arguments to those who are against the aircraft and that force, that you did not have the ability of the Croatian state to obtain fighter planes, and in NATO we are in the alliance, we call for partnerships and friendships, and where are the planes? If anything is positive, it means the Croatian soldier and only the truth about the Croatian soldier is what was just before Miro Kovac, a colleague, said that America, the US and NATO made a great contribution to the Republic, the creation of the Republic, the Croatian soldier, that that was when Baker came to Belgrade in the sixth month and supported Milosevic's large Serbian politics, which we all witnessed, especially you older men who were then on certain duties, that this was the time and gave the culprit to Slobodan Milosevic and the large Serb politics, even some deadlines were mentioned to sort out the situation in the area of the former Yugoslavia. I think that the Republic of Croatia should look at its interests here, protect its interests, if we have partners, then we have to have partners, not be their servants, but be a partner relationship, and that's what's visible in the case of the purchase of fighter planes. Finally, I would like to point out once again that all those who are opening and asking questions about NATO who are critically looking at them that you do not need to be watched by those who are friends with NATO, that they are enemies, that I think there are a lot of open questions, that this House triba is talking about these issues, that committees in charge should talk about these issues, and of course, I see that fellow Shucker is looking at your secretary, of course, we are expecting parliamentary representatives, including fellow Shucker, that our secretary is answering these questions that we are asking. What did diplomacy do with her cell mates? I'm not talking about the rule book, the one that used to tell a colleague where freedom of speech was threatened a couple of times, what did diplomacy do about buying combat planes? I repeat, the Croatian state gives a huge number of troops in missions in areas where the Republic of Croatia had no interest in it and minimally would have been if diplomacy had done it to get planes if we were to give our sons, then it should have been possible for us to get planes, that is a partner relationship, not a servant's relationship, not that Vukic tells us that I will invite the Croats to join the Russian MiG-35 combat... They drive, we protect only Croatian interests. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130679	Thank you, for your presentation we have one replica, it's a colleague of Tomislav Sokol, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130680	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Bulj said a lot, but I would refer to the migration part, just so the public wouldn't be misinformed. So, if one government protects the border of the Republic of Croatia from illegal migration, that's exactly this government. However, it is this terrible EU that my colleague Bulj mentioned that the Republic of Croatia has given from its funds a billion kuna to equip the border police, and thanks to these funds, we today have 6,500 border police officers top-notchly equipped to keep that same border from illegal migrations. However, we have a situation that any associations on the multi-left side of the political spectrum attack police to do their job too poorly, so that some claim that the Republic of Croatia is releasing migrants, etc., others claim that the work is too poor, so please, I think we need to talk about facts rather than flossules. So Croatian police and this government protect Croatia's external border from illegal migration and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130681	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130682	I asked one legitimate question why our neighbours who are in NATO from Hungary, Italy, Austria and many other countries have rejected the Marrakech Agreement, including the United States, and for which we have not made it possible. Our diplomacy didn't allow our partners to get the cheapest fighter planes in NATO. However, you have turned a completely different story, and I can tell you something, this is what Jurova said the other day, the Commissioner for Justice, that cohesion funds will be prepared, that they will shut down a little bit, and that the government is prepared to run a little bit for its projects on the EU budget, which means no competitiveness, which means first they will reduce, and they will invest in American, African areas for the survival of these people, that's what she said, I have a video of whether I recorded it on the facebook live and you can't deny it, again at the expense of the Republic.../Invast: Thank you Intruder: Thank you/...cohesion funds [[...but you can't hear a voice in...]] the reduction of cohesion funds, that's what you should be talking about. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Bulj]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130683	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, fellow Falcon.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130684	.../Speaker disabled/... So, excuse me, so, colleague Bulj hurt his ankle. 238, she's telling the truth, Commissioner Jurov didn't say the funds were shutting down, though, and please don't misinformed the public here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130685	Okay, this wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure, this is a replica, and now you're going to do the same thing, I have to give it to you, come on, come on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130686	Sokol was injured by his colleague. In 238, Commissioner Jurova said that now there will be a reduction in cohesion funds to target the funds towards Africa. to the area where immigrants come from and will thus be prevented, but this will be less money in our cash register and a little government is preparing to run for projects, not through cohesion funds, but through the EU budget, which is a direct blow Here you go, colleague Ljubic, we'll continue the individual debate. [[Intruder: Well, thank you, colleague Bulj, it was also not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but, well, that's how it goes]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130687	Here you go, colleague Ljubic, we'll continue the individual debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130688	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my fellow MPs, the Honorable State Secretary. So, of course, I join the position of the club presented by my colleague Tudjman in support of this protocol for the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Alliance because it is of course an interest in the first order, of the interest of the Republic of Macedonia but I also consider the best interest of our friendly Republic of Northern Macedonia. I also express my regret, therefore, that this process of Macedonia's accession to the North Atlantic Union has been blocked, so for over a decade and of course, it is clear that the biggest responsibility for the two neighbouring countries so in the Republic of Macedonia and Greece, which I would have said, by burdening the deposits of one national mythology and history, has actually failed to see for a time the interest which is both states. So what I'm saying is, the accession of Macedonia, that is, here is the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the North Atlantic Alliance, is extremely important for the stability of all of Southeast Europe and Europe and the world itself, because let's not forget that we still have some fences in this region so to say, the fragile states whose, I would only ask a colleague of Bulj to report for a breach of the Rules of Procedure if he will speak, so we have a situation of Kosovo which is still unresolved in relations with the Republic of Serbia, we have a question of political instability in BiH itself, so in any case, it is very important that this gap in the NATO alliance, in this region is fulfilled, and here, by entering the Republic of Northern Macedonia, this gap is being fulfilled. I would also say, and perhaps not until the end of the debate that we just heard from fellow Kovacs that the possible exchange of territory between Kosovo and the Republic of Serbia in order to say that NATO's environments should not have negative consequences for this entire region. I hope so, but let us not forget that around these countries which are not yet members of the North Atlantic Union or of the EU, this sanitary corridor of the North Atlantic Union offers certain security, however it still does not offer confidence that, within that meaning, the sanitary corridor, there can be no problem that can actually affect both the Republic of Croatia and the security and economic sense. Let us only remember when the crisis in Kosovo was at its peak, as this had negative consequences on the tourist season in the Republic of Croatia. Even though we were here in Croatia then and even in BiH that is closer to Kosovo, we felt very safe, so for Europe and for the world it is the nearest neighborhood. Therefore, any destabilisation in the region affects, of course, the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Macedonia and other countries in the region not yet included in the North Atlantic Alliance, to the extent that the Republic of Macedonia can say so, is helping its allies both in NATO and in the EU to address issues in the region, the Republic of Croatia is becoming a part of the international factor. Croatia is therefore in no condition to be an important partner nor to NATO you are neither in the North of Africa nor in the Middle East region, but in any case, the Republic of Croatia should play a more active role in this region. As for the further expansion of NATO, I come from BiH, of course, my greatest interest is in this country, but it is also very important for Croatia because, therefore, over 1,000 borders of NATO, the alliance borders with a country that is not a member of the NATO alliance, so it is BiH. And I think that the Republic of Croatia should do everything possible to make BiH a step towards, at the very least, adopting NATO standards if not quick NATO membership, given that there are differences within BiH when it comes to joining NATO, but it is also important to know whether it is known here, I do not know that BiH has made all strategic decisions when it comes to joining NATO. The presidency has made a decision that this is a strategic interest, the BiH Defence Act also states that joining NATO is BiH's strategic interest and this has been made by consensus of all political factors in BiH. In 2006, BiH was involved in a partnership for Peace... In 2008, if I am not mistaken, BiH is involved in an individual Partnership Action Plan and therefore BiH participates in NATO operations and especially beyond our borders. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And, of course, in 2010, NATO directed BiH to participate in a member action plan that has not yet been realised because of some unresolved issues about immovable military property, therefore, BiH already has political disagreements at this point in time of the basis for BiH to be admitted into the memober action plan. Of course, NATO's involvement will depend on it in any case, noting that I say, BiH will also be of interest to the Republic of Macedonia. After all, there is a question here that has slowed down what NATO is to us, whether we need NATO. Let us remember, then, that NATO forces have established peace in this region, in the first row when it comes to BiH and Kosovo and that NATO forces have been since '95. until 2004 they established and maintained peace in BiH that today in BiH there is a NATO headquire and, of course, these are all facts that speak of no matter how expensive we all seek the EU, the EU is a set of standards, values, etc., etc. However, the EU is neither a political nor a security entity strong enough to ensure peace in the region and certainly NATO, and most of the members, almost all EU members are members of NATO as well as that non-EU substitute. As for NATO itself, which he otherwise meant to the world, let's remember that only the establishment of NATO is 49th, so we are peers, me and NATO, whether so to say the motivated stop of the Soviet forces' military breach towards the east because the armies of the Western forces were demobilized, and the Soviet Union did not. So in phase two, NATO was actually, I say some kind of fuse in terms of the balance of fear, I would say, so that also contributed to over 70 years of peace. Today, NATO is in addition to.../incomprehensible/... alliance and political alliance and in any case it has also transformed and will transform into the future. And in fact, the Republic of Croatia is as a member of the EU and as a country that actually shares and benefits and all the problems that burden the region, should be extremely interested in the progress of NATO and its transformation, therefore in the military sense and the sense of democracy, the preservation of peace both in the region and beyond, so more so than we can see, under the influence of the new US administration, America may not have as much interest in preserving.../incomprehensible Europe, and at least until the time that Europe is transformed to a degree to become a coherent political entity and military factor, in terms of therefore European defence forces, until that time, and after that, I believe that there is a reason to support NATO therefore, in any case, I think that we should support it, but we also need to work on that the rest of the region to move forward or engage in NATO alliances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130689	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. First is colleague Tudjman, after him fellow Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130690	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Ljubic, you also stressed that there is articulation on BiH's side of joining NATO's alliance. However, what should be particularly stressed is that by being a Croatian NATO member for 10 years and now we are discussing NATO enlargement and on the part of BiH's desire to join the alliance, the context of the debate on BiH's future is changing. Because in this very new context, asking the issue of equality of the 3 constituent peoples in the three-national BiH will no longer be rejected with an apricot view that any such debate, debate on the division of BiH, is why, because NATO according to its standards and values [[Intruder: Thank you, colleague Tudjman.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130691	Answer, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130692	Well, I agree with my colleague Tudjman, in fact, the very fact that here in the region, even in BiH, there is an interference of foreign interests which are not of interest to BiH to join the European and NATO, respectively. On the other hand, I would also like to make it clear here as a representative of the Croats from BiH that the Croats in BiH as one of the three constituent nations strongly support BiH's involvement in NATO alliance, both effectively and within the framework of the joint military and political decisions. On the other hand, I am convinced that most BiH citizens would vote to join the BiH NATO alliance today, and in any case work to step by step, the first step is the number of action plan so BiH includes because I believe it will generate support for those who may at this point have reservations for joining BiH NATO because this is therefore the interest of stability BiH, but also the interests of Croatia. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130693	Thank you. Next is counterpart Stier, followed by counterpart Klisovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130694	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, fellow Ljubic, you mentioned how important it is for the countries of Southeast Europe who want to join the NATO Alliance and to meet the standards in any case, the NATO Alliance and that Croatia can also position itself through it and strengthen its influence. I would add one dimension, perhaps less known, to how many armed forces and BiH workers, but also Montenegro, Albania, come for example. on education in Zagreb in our military academy, as their soldiers participate in NATO operations under Croatian command and how it also creates certain relations and stronger, if you want the influence of the Republic of Croatia, and thus, of course, our security. So here, perhaps, through that dimension, might support this thesis that you brought out in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130695	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130696	Yes, I absolutely agree, therefore, with the fact that Croatia, which has been a member of NATO for 10 years, has proved of course to be a good and Croatian defence position, therefore, its interoperability of its armed forces. Also, the very fact that members of the BiH military of all nationalities here are learning according to NATO standards, creating the basis for good neighbourly co-operation for both Croatia and BiH, but also internal cohesion in BiH because people, so to speak, adapt in such a way those standards, democratic standards of individual rights and freedoms, of course both ethnic rights and national freedoms.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130697	Thank you. Here you go, pal Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130698	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Ljubic, here is Macedonia signing the NATO Accession Agreement, and in fact that fact should really be an incentive to all other Southeast European countries and to consider how to ensure their country's security in the best sense. You also mentioned BiH, it is nice that the Croatian people are committed to NATO membership because if the two main nations had not been committed to this, this would not have happened. But you also mentioned a referendum, and I wonder how likely it is to organise such a referendum in BiH and how likely it is that the third people, the Serbian people, in some ways, are aware that the best way to ensure lasting security in BiH, is membership in NATO and then, of course, in the EU. These two basic facts are obviously not clear to everyone. What are the chances for you to take such a situation politically... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130699	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130700	Look, counterpart Klisovic, in any case, we agree that it would be important for BiH to rapidly join the Union of North Atlantic. I can speculate now, I believe if today would be an organised referendum at BiH level to get majority support, so... BiH. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But this would therefore create a rejection in one part of BiH, which, of course, is not good for BiH again, and certainly should not go that way now. It should go the way that BiH is coming specifically through... a forwarding plan adopts NATO standards and then gradually create to say the climate in BiH that will win those who today have reservations towards NATO to arrange that it is their interest, therefore safe and ultimately economic and every other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130701	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is a colleague of Arsen Bauk's. Here's my colleague, Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130702	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This is certainly a debate that has elements and historical ones. So every country when it enters NATO, and so does Croatia, and then Macedonia sees it as one step in achieving some of its strategic goals, so it's not bad to go back in history, first getting closer. April 2008 tomorrow, NATO will make a historic decision on the admission of three Balkan countries, Croatia, Albania and Macedonia to the Atlantic Alliance. The United States will strongly support the invitation to those countries to join NATO. These countries have passed a difficult path to reform and have successfully built free societies. They are ready to contribute to NATO and their citizens deserve the security that NATO brings. US President George W. Bush said in a speech at the Trans-Atlantic Forum ahead of the start of NATO summit in April 2008. We've got to move on. In 2008, he said, a decade before the Balkan region was torn by war, fanaticism and ethnic cleansing. Today, it is a region of growing freedom, tolerance and peace, and changes are the result of determined actions by NATO and the courageous election of new Balkan leaders who have worked to overcome violence and division from the past. This kind of optimistic 2008 sentence by George Bush, the future events have not been overly denied yet, but we can ask ourselves whether the situation in the countries he referred to in his debate was better or worse than it was 10, 11 years ago. As for Macedonia and its accession to NATO and other integrations required by the agreement of the Helen Republic, or Greece, it shows that nothing is over in the Balkans until it is really over because just the day after this optimistic speech by President Bush, Macedonia has not received a NATO invitation such as Croatia and Albania and 11 years later, two brave left-wing leaders from Macedonia and Greece have succeeded in reaching an agreement despite the resistance of nationalists who, as the conflict in the Balkans has been answered by nationalists all this time. They fed each other and, of course, at the same time they were already doing what the former prime minister of Macedonia is now doing in an asylum in Hungary. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's ratify this tomorrow so the nationalists don't come up with another idea, and we can mess with this agreement, you know what it's like in the Balkans. What is sort of symbolic is that that year the summit Macedonia was scheduled to be admitted to was in Bucharest. The 1913 Bucharest Agreement was an agreement that the neighbours shared with Macedonia. One part belonged to the Kingdom of Serbia, one part of Bulgaria, a border has been withdrawn that most matches that today. The one that is historic and when is actually established then is the federal state of Macedonia, on August 2, 1944, when we are in a common battle, in the anti-fascist struggle when Macedonia is on its version of ZAVNOH, so on August 2, 1944, when the foundations of today's modern Macedonian state are hit. What a symbolic chairman, Panko Brashnarov, was then welcomed by representatives of the large allies of the United States and Great Britain, except for delegates from all over Macedonia. And here's how many 70 and a few years later, Macedonia comes back to the alliance with the United States and the UK. It is not bad to recall even the attempts to repeat the 1992 Bucharest Agreement because adventurers in neighbouring countries had the idea to discuss Macedonia and the Macedonian borders again, but all the luck the Americans had sent in a unit to stop there just to show that it was no longer as it was 100 years ago, so they gave it up. And finally, we come to a Prespa Agreement that has made all this possible for the Republic, today Northern Macedonia will mean joining NATO, and what will it mean for the Republic of Macedonia to join NATO? We get another country in the environment as an ally in a military political alliance whose member states meet certain democratic standards and whose citizens have peace and security in their countries. A colleague, Kovac, spoke, made a brief analysis of the countries created from the former common state, today NATO members would say it this way, from that division in '91. who voted in favour of introducing a state of emergency and who voted against Montenegro is on this side, and BIH on the other side. That is, in fact, Croatia, Slovenia and Macedonia and Montenegro are in NATO, and then the elements of the Federation, so Serbia and Vojvodina, i.e., the Republic of Serbia, Kosovo and BiH are not yet in NATO, I hope, of course, this is what we expect in NATO to be confirmed by other parliaments of all countries. How much is the paradox saying and the fact when I mentioned... that they were then in '44. Communists organised a assembly in Manastir without the Manastir being in fact in Macedonia, but located in the area of the Republic of Serbia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we'd better finish this as soon as possible, who knows, which could be a complication. The prespanish agreement, despite the natural opposition of nationalists from both states, even MP Zlatan Zoran, it was not so much followed here in parliament and called for the military to capture the president's diameter because of this agreement, so they kicked him out, I believe it would be so that they would throw him out here too if someone said so. And for this reason, I will be happy to support this law, wishing that other parliaments, other NATO members, would support this ratification and, of course, the Macedonian and Greek parliament would do so and Hungarian parliaments, have now become important in these matters. And how complicated the situation is, if in Macedonia we wanted to make a politically correct welcome, it would be a good way to say it in Macedonian, it is good for Macedonia, in Albanian... And in Greek... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Macedonia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that all of us other NATO parliaments will ratify this agreement and pass such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130703	Thank you, Comrade Bauk. At your exhibition we have one replica, this is my colleague Klisović, here's my colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130704	Comrade Bauk, here, from the quote you read to us from President Bush, it turns out that at the 2008 summit in Bucharest, America supported Macedonia's admission to NATO, and Macedonia was not accepted at that summit, as we know. Which automatically actuates those thesiss, which keep our fellow living walls here telling us that NATO is just an exposition of America and nothing more than that. So that's how the Americans managed to achieve one of their goals in Bucharest, which was a good goal, but apparently it showed that other countries within NATO have a weight if their interests are at stake, so perhaps to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130705	Answer, here you go, Comrade Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130706	Thank you. This shows, in fact, how small a thing for us, therefore, one word in the name, how slow it can slow down and affect the fate of a country, of a people, and these agreements in both parliaments, in both Macedonian and Greek, have passed by 1 or 2 votes. So it was all a fee. And I remember something else, while we're at the Balkans, in 2006, the BIH almost got a new constitution in two votes, which I might not say is so, but which might make it easier for the BiH to function today, now 13 or 14 years later, by 2 or 3 votes in the parliamentary assembly, when the Constitution is not passed, we return to the situation which it chooses, etc. And we went back 13 years or we didn't move after 13 years but went backwards. Thus, as you can see, many details and details can have huge consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130707	Thank you, colleague Bauk, we continue with an individual debate, next is colleague Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Members and colleagues, today when we are discussing such an important topic and, in essence, in our debate, we must point out how pleased we are that one problem that lasts for many years, can be solved on mutual satisfaction between the two countries and two and more people living in the area of these countries, given the problems and as regards NATO and the EU, I must commend and demonstrate the satisfaction that the Social Democratic Government in Macedonia has had the courage and the ability to lead the Zavez to take a step forward and take the first step to solve this problem, and then the left government in Greece, led by Cyprus's diameter, has also managed to show and convince both the public and parliament that the solution between the two countries, i.e., the name and the names of Macedonia, means which have been disputed, finally successfully solved and that one problem that has lasted, I would have said for more than a decade finally removed from the agenda. All of us here are likely to learn a little more in the Croatian Parliament, i.e., not all of us, very likely the vast majority of MPs will support Macedonia on its way and on the other hand, but we all know what we're talking about, we will support them on a new path and on the part of several clubs and representatives in the Croatian Parliament who probably react to NATO's word as if you beat them with a hot pair is something that is part of a political folklore or individuals' attitudes that have nothing to do with either Macedonia nor Greece nor NATO, but simply their views which are general and which have nothing to do with a specific topic. So, let's say that the benefits of Croatia from NATO have already been heard before and some colleagues, there would probably not have been a war in the Republic of Croatia if we were a NATO member, on the other hand, my view is that as regards certain separation or arms, I am not exactly a representative of the quotas they have set for us, and I don't think that this is something that Croatia could possibly follow, we may be able to fight within NATO not to stand out for the Ministry of Defence if, for example, the ruling party, for example, I don't need new expensive planes, because we saw that, in a situation where we had this shameful acquisition of aircraft and the inability of Minister Krstičic, that unfortunately, there would be another paradoxal thing now, that we would be getting even more expensive planes that would eventually replace the priorities that are more important to us and the quality of education and all that are missing in Croatia. So it is not necessary for me to think that, given that even richer people do not respect these quotas, which should be respected primarily, we see that the President of the United States is constantly rebelling about it, I do not see why Croatia would be a leader in military spending or budget spending, especially when both in the region and with this example, the situation is stabilised. So in my view, when a certain situation with BiH is solved for everyone's satisfaction, I am convinced that we will finally have a region where there will be no tensions, markets and problems in the long term, and on that side, it would be good to turn to cross-border or cooperation between countries and to see that as a region we can from this part of our people, provide our citizens with a better and better and better quality of life and Croatia can certainly be the leader for all of these countries that we have just talked about, both BiH and Montenegro and Macedonia and Serbia as a model and a road that has passed towards the EU. So we have already offered to help these countries, it is our interest that these countries enter the EU as soon as possible and that Croatia can be a leader in this region and in some way a role model for these countries. And as for Macedonia itself, another congratulator and the Government of the Republic of Macedonia means North Macedonia, excuse me, and congratulations and the Government of the Republic of Greece, means on that side that they have managed to solve a problem that was burdened by the people and which unfortunately the nationalists of the right parties used to maximise anxiety and instability in that part of our region, let's say that which is not so far away from Croatia that we should not be interested and I would have said that we might have been directly interested in seeing and doing a lot of our companies in the Republic of Northern Macedonia, not to say how many brands, how many of our companies there are and how big a market they have, and I believe that it will now be even easier for them to do business than their business so far. So the more these solutions to mutual benefit, the more initiatives that will enable peace in the region, the more initiatives that will help one country with another country, the better for everyone and of course I will support this initiative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130709	We have one replica, it's Col. Djujic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Maras, I also join these congratulations to the Republic of Northern Macedonia to resolve their biggest problem in my opinion, which has cost them the country as well as its progress and development, but what I have come to appreciate is, you said that, you mentioned the financing of weapons within NATO by and the Croatian state, and that it is too big and too big, here you are now a candidate for the Euro Parliament, I am interested in your view on the subject of the EU's common army, what do you think about whether the EU's common army in NATO might solve these problems of weapons and defence financing, if within that common army, I agree that countries in the EU would hold what part of the defence, let's say, I don't know, that someone would hold an air force, etc., perhaps not have these problems, here I am interested in your view of that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130711	Thank you. Here's Maras from a different perspective.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130712	Thank you very much. An excellent question you asked your colleague, Đujic, is one topic, meaning European security and joint action that certainly interests us all together and burdens us. What I think and what I will stand for when it becomes a European Parliament is for the Republic of Croatia to gain its role in the control of the Mediterranean, meaning, and as a country that has a great long-term tradition in the sea, and since we do not have yet here, I am sorry to say, colleagues from HDZ experienced diplomats such as Mr Kovac, have failed to ensure that in the last 3 years, the Republic of Croatia has received some agency that it would have in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Why couldn't the Republic of Croatia be a centre where security and the migrant crisis in the Mediterranean could be controlled? We've already shown with our navy that we can help, that's what we're doing. And I think we should fight for it. [[Intruder: Thank you]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130713	Thank you, fellow Maras, thank you. The last individual debate is from counterpart Josko Klisovic, please welcome colleague Klisovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130714	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. Here, I answered the individual debate just to touch a few questions that came out in our colleagues' debate. The first question I would like to demystify is the issue of the left and its political action, Col. Sokol is already coming forward, bravo for the replica. Therefore, the left is clearly perceived in a part of the political spectrum as a political orientation dealing exclusively with social, health, education, protection of workers and labour rights, and it is denied the right to deal with security. Now, I think it's absolutely wrong and that the left like any other political orientation that cares about the common state interests, the interests of the citizens, must also deal with security issues. In this regard and the SDP has always worked very actively on reforming the armed forces, reforming the complete security system of the Republic of Croatia and favouring the maximum safety of Croatian citizens at any stage of the development of the Croatian state, here is the last we have the successes of our government when we had a major migrant crisis in 2015, and the safety of Croatian citizens has never been questioned. NATO is a guarantee of security, NATO is a defence organisation that guarantees the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens by satisfying the level of security and therefore it is quite justified that the SDP or the left of Croatia supports NATO because it is in the Croatian national interest, therefore, in our interest to have a security umbrella that is impenetrable, so if our neighbours are buying, I don't know, paragraphs 29 or arming themselves in another way, it shouldn't be too exciting by a Croatian citizen because we can quietly devote ourselves to our daily affairs. The entry of Macedonia, northern Macedonia into NATO must, as I have already pointed out, further encourage all those who have not entered this defence alliance to consider a long-term way of satisfying their security. BiH is certainly a country that should and is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, as soon as possible. It would be very good that Mr. Ljubic stressed that such a referendum is being organised if there is already the prevailing will of the citizens of BiH to achieve security through such a powerful military alliance. Likewise, it must be said that no more eastern bloc, the Warsaw bloc, has been mentioned in the debate, so NATO no longer makes sense. NATO coordinates its strategic concept every 10 years. As a rule, if needed more often, with new security threats. Thus, as the security environment and security threats change, the role of NATO and its mission are redefined. However, the task is certainly to protect the area from all security threats by all NATO members. So if today is one of the growing threats, for example. Cyber threat, therefore, cyber security, then or the threat of cybersecurity, then certainly the Republic of Croatia will be much better protected from any cyber attacks, either on its state institutions, institutions, on the economy or on critical infrastructure, if we are networked into such a highly sophisticated alliance as NATO where there are both technological opportunities, and knowledge of how to defend ourselves against, say, these new forms threaten. As for the budget and demands that NATO requires 2% of the Member States to separate the defence sector, defence cooperation, it should point out that it is not only a 2% problem, although, of course, under budgetary conditions such as the Republic of Croatia, 2% is much more and certainly one part of that money would be more smart, for example, to reroute to a reform of education that is crucial for further development of the Republic of Croatia. The key to the defence budget is in fact the structure of the budget, if most of the money goes exclusively to the cold drive, then it's not well invested money in the military budget. Most of the money should go to modernising the armed forces and training of the armed forces, of course, that number of members of the armed forces required according to the assessment of territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia should certainly be retained, but it is not the key in 2%, the key is that what is given to the defence ministry, the Ministry of Defence and the Croatian Army, by the structure of consumption is directed towards modernising the armed forces and according to the training of our members of the armed forces, and not only to be paid as wages or cold drives, and there is nothing to train the army, especially in the modern conditions that require the threats we face. Macedonia once again wants to welcome to NATO, it has already proven itself through participation in various NATO operations, including in Afghanistan and Kosovo, as we have mentioned, I think that it will easily and easily get involved in other activities, that its armed forces will start to develop more closely, so that we will also continue the cooperation we have had so far both on the military and defence agenda, so I believe politically. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130715	Thank you. We have four replicas on your display, first colleague Sokol, after him colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130716	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klisovic, I would refer to what you and your predecessors have been saying about how socialists solve problems, nationalists create them, about, right? So I would just point out, purely for the sake of the public, that the party that has been with you in the party of the European Socialists PASOK, which for decades was the ruling party in Greece, was against this agreement, and the European People's Party supported it on the other hand. Furthermore, this same PASOK was one whole decade in power until... The names of Macedonia could not be solved, so that story about the socialists solving problems, I think they are all equally guilty to say why the problem has not been solved, and let's be realistic, the main initiative to solve the matter, the main blessing has come from the other side of the Atlantic Ocean, and we know that there are not left-wings there, but we know who, yes, thank you. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130717	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130718	Yes, thank you very much. A lot, there was now a lot of ping pong or pinballers, the United States has made a completely different approach to the situation in Macedonia or Macedonia and Greece, therefore, not from the perspective of the left and right, Democrats and Republicans, but from the perspective of US foreign interests, and America's interests are the stability of this NATO-led area, to the community of common values with which America is also. The fact is, fellow Sokol, that the left governments currently solved this problem, we've had right-wing governments for a long time, and right-wing presidents are currently unable to resolve something like that. It's not easy when identity issues are on the table, it's not easy, of course, to take some step and solve these issues, but when these identity issues stop the further development of the nation, then it's irresponsible to just beat on them with such rhetoric from the Middle Ages, it's necessary to keep the elements of the entity, so no one is opposed, we'll all work on it. , as well as find a way for [[Intruder: Thank you]] Modernization of your own nation. [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Klisovic]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130719	Next replica of my colleague Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130720	Thank you very much. Mr. Klisovic, you said in your replica or exposure that essentially the left government solves problems in Europe, which you have received a replica of a colleague from HDZ who has been affirmed in these topics, is quite active and it is seen to be an area of its action in the future, I am interested in how you look at this equation, meaning, Know HDZ and Trump, meaning that this means that the HDZ colleagues are proud of Trump and that he is leading foreign policy and NATO because fellow Sokol said "it is known who is in power in the United States", so, ZAZ, it is HDZ, and Trump is in power in HDZ, it's an interesting thesis that it could be derived that it is essentially one coalition Trumphok, Sokol-Tump, so here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130721	Thank you. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130722	Thank you, dear colleague Maras. Well, you know, I think HDZ only respects the power of power, authority, therefore, the one who is stronger and bigger and then will bow down to everyone, and it may also forget some Croatian national interests, but that is not important, it is really important to be with those who are the best, so we are the strongest, so we could see our president jumping into the staff where Michael Pens or Donald Trump is, therefore, one systematic political approach to solving the problem of seeing him colleagues in HDZ. But we on the left are still different, yet we think a little deeper and we are trying really hard to act, so if someone reacts amongst the people or to the Republic of Croatia no matter who it is, contrary to our interests, then we will stand up and ask Mr. Tajani, let's say, resign as speaker of Parliament, and we won't ask for resignation and an apology, so when He just wanted to apologize, not... [[Intruder: Thank you]] withdraw statement [[Intruder: Thank you]] [[Agreement: Thank you, colleague Klisovic]] [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130723	The next replica of fellow Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130724	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Klisovic, you were talking about the role of the left in solving problems in Europe and I agree with you here. For example, you mentioned the migrant crisis, and this is the example of the migrant crisis that we have examples of how the left Government in the Republic of Croatia handled the problems of the migrant crisis, and we have what is being done by today's government, although here, fellow Sokol has been telling examples of how successful this government is in solving the migrant crisis, I would disagree with that thesis. So, during the left government or the Government of Zoran Milanovic, we didn't have the situations that we have today, so this government keeps the border so well, and then these migrants find them in the forests of Gorski Kotar, in the forests of Zlobin, that we find dead migrants in Croatian forests that are frozen and frozen, that people today have broken into their cottages and into their buildings by these migrants, while, for example, while the left government was here, they didn't even see them, they only knew about them because they were being talked about, so these are situations. how this government solves these problems [[Intruder: Thank you]] So I'd like to beg you, too. [[Intruder: Thank you]] who you were part of that government to a little [[Intruder: Thank you]] You're commenting on the situation. [[Intruder: Thank you]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130725	Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130726	Thank you, dear colleague Djujic. Yes, unfortunately, today, migrants are lurking in forests and mountains where they don't belong, and Croatian police are being publicly called because of the use of force in certain situations that can be interpreted as excessive. At the time of our government when thousands of migrants came to the border, from 5 to 7,000 a day, people treated themselves with dignity, people treated themselves humanely, people treated themselves as people who fled the war of endangered areas, areas where they could lose their heads. At the same time, receiving such a large number of people and ensuring transport and transition to other destinations in Europe where they wanted to go, not once was the safety of the Republic of Croatia threatened, no citizen of the Republic of Croatia at that time experienced or at least the public does not know that he has experienced any discomfort from migrants. So, the migrant crisis isn't what we wanted, but we used to manage it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130727	Thank you. And the last replica of your exposure is my colleague, Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130728	Thank you, Vice President HS. Dear counterpart Klisovic, one important topic you have touched, it is, therefore, about this 2% to 2025, which the Republic of Croatia needs to meet, of which 1/5 must go towards raising the level of ability and you rightly say that it is very important in fact in which direction that money will be invested, it is important. That money can be the driver of the Croatian economy. According to the latest available data, 118 Croatian companies are working for the NATO Alliance. The truth needs to pass a demanding certification procedure, but these NATO alliance companies are not only looking for weapons, there are construction works, there are shoes and clothes, there are other types of equipment and this is an opportunity for the Croatian economy to develop within that alliance and that ultimately, other than this security benefit that the NATO Alliance provides for the developed and Croatian economy. And that offered me your part of the exposure, when you said it was very important in which direction that money was invested.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130729	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130730	Thank you very much, colleague Sagar, you're absolutely right. 118 Croatian companies are operating with NATO or NATO states. In NATO, there is one agency, I think it's called NAMSA, which deals exclusively with the purchase of equipment. And when we say buying equipment, we're not just thinking about guns, we're thinking about everything a soldier needs to think about so he can operate on the battlefield. So this is about, say, vitamin preparations, food, clothing, clothing, a lot of things. NATO is a big market and there is a big market for Croatian companies as well. When I led economic diplomacy, NATO was one of my addresses where we went to present Croatian companies, i.e., we arranged for them to present themselves and I hope that after that, there were certain jobs. The advantages of buying by NATO have companies that come from NATO members and are seen to still be evenly arranged, not only to be, say, German or American, but to be this, at all... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130731	Thank you, colleague Klisović, we are finished with an individual debate, and on behalf of the Living Wall and SNAGA Club, a colleague named Ivan Pernar, please welcome colleague Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130732	Dear ladies and gentlemen. Blackmails in court proceedings are not only the innovations of the Croatian political scene. According to information I have, the same thing happened in Macedonia. Although the people rejected the referendum, an agreement on a change of name, although the president of Macedonia rejected the agreement, it reportedly passed in parliament because 9 or 8 MPs, who changed the record at the last minute, were blackmailed by judicial proceedings and thus forced not only to betray their own voters and party, but also actually to work against their consciences, and to vote for a change of name. And of course, their decision, that is, by making that decision, did not speak on behalf of those they represented, probably on their own behalf, but on behalf of those who squeezed them to take such a stand. What I'm trying to tell you is that in order for NATO to expand, it uses non-democratic methods, methods that actually trample on human dignity and that don't actually allow an individual to be free. What we have a chance to see today is America's attempt, panicking, to establish a new world order on earth, the order in which she is the master, and everyone else, her vases or targets for the shooting. Fortunately, this universal world has come to an end and America can no longer work, which is what it will, whenever it wills and wherever it wills, as you have seen in Syria, there the American regime change has been stopped. What I'm saying to you is that, in America's interest, the expansion of peace, freedom and democracy, it would respect the decisions of the UN Security Council, or international law, would not go to war without UN approval, would not, bomb the meaning of other sovereign countries and would not supply money and weapons to terrorists. But, America, all of it, as you know it does, countries that were successful and people who were happy, like. in Libya, it was this NATO democracy that brought to ruin. We don't know which country's next on the target of a big brother from America, maybe it'll be Venezuela. And then NATO may declare whether for or against these actions and in theory, each member state has the right to veto, however, the question is how free and modern the Macedonian representative of NATO will be in his decision, if it is clear that his people are not sovereign either. As Macedonia enters NATO, America expands its area of influence and creates in fact another Quislin government, establishes another colony of its own and enslaves another people, serving America, and America assures them that there will be unknown, economic growth, democracy, better human rights states, etc. But as I said before, the Palestinians are living witnesses to how much America cares about democracy and human rights and international rights and every other law and norm. I call on the Croatian people to support the Living Wall in the elections, because the Living Wall is the only party that opposes American domination, the globalisation that has been forced by Washington and Brussels, the system that tramples everything in front of it, which wants to introduce the euro beyond our will, the system that sends us to the Russian border, to Afghanistan or to any other crisis hotspot that America has created. I call on the Croatian people to start looking at their interests, not the interests of the vases they manage or those who actually manage the vases. So we don't just have puppet power we have a puppet master, we have those who govern our politicians. These are the enemies of our people's freedom and survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130733	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, State Secretary Andreja Metelko Zgombic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130734	I thank Mr. Chairman, here at the end of this debate, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in this debate. And although the debate sometimes went from the focus of the direct subject of confirming this protocol, it seems to me that the speech of the MPs can read out the truly dominant support, which this House of the Highest House gives to confirm this protocol. Perhaps just to conclude, NATO's alliance is indeed a lasting political military alliance based on values and stronger democracy and, above all, the security and life of citizens makes it safer, and ultimately, it strengthens the sovereignty of each of its Member States. NATO's goal and its action are, above all, to defend and deter the threat, and many MPs have reminded here what the value of this collective security is, as any NATO member can count on the support and defence of all other members, in case its territory is compromised. I don't think that in this Croatian High House, we should remind ourselves of what a blessing and a positive role NATO has played in our part of Europe. Just to remind NATO's work in the BiH, Serbia, Kosovo, NATO still has a mission in Kosovo, and in key moments, it was founded and was present in Macedonia, which has just strengthened and strengthened the country's internal strength and security. Finally, I can say that I think that we all need to be aware of this important historical moment, which is approaching the Republic of Macedonia and I would be glad to see that, during the vote, this High House, with great support, once again reaffirmed the support that the Republic of Macedonia has given, we have done so so far, and we will continue and do so as a partner within NATO to be the support of the Republic of Macedonia, its European path, where we will continue to be a strong partner of the Republic of Macedonia, through our transfer of knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130735	There's a replica on your exhibit, here's my colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130736	Thank you very much, distinguished secretary, you're saying that NATO promotes democracy, and very much your Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and you haven't answered that question, it's giving a rule that defends freedom of speech and essentially delegates democracy. You are talking about security in NATO and you are calling for partners, however, what the foreign ministry has done in relation to the purchase of aircraft. What you did with your partners, when you call for security. Our armed forces are threatening to run out of air forces, without planes, you've done nothing, you're calling for sovereignty, and you don't have the strength to declare an exclusive economic belt, you that your ministry is responsible for, exclusively because you're courting Tajani, a fascist who says Dalmatia and Istria are Italian. No, they're Dalmatian, but you don't have the strength to deal with these partners for the interests of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130737	Thanks, buddy Bull. I hereby conclude the debate on the final proposal for a Protocol Confirmation Act under the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, second reading, P.Z. No. 574, and we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130738	[[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 11.04 HOURS]] Frosino Tashevski, who is present today in HS vote on the final draft of the Protocol Act in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. With Mrs. Crescent. I would also like to welcome Mr. Iliu Dimovski, a representative of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, Ambassador Viktor Dimovski, State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Northern Macedonia and Mr. Nazif Djaferi, Ambassador to the Embassy of the Republic of Northern Macedonia to the Republic of Croatia. Welcome to HS! ... Also welcome to the students and students of the Anthony Gustav Matoš High School of Giakov. [[Applause]] Welcome! ... [[Applause]] We are now starting with a vote on the debated points, the first item is the Final Proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, second reading, P.Z. No. 574. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Protocol in the North Atlantic Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia, please vote. I find that most of the votes 116 FOR and 2 OBVIT have been passed by the Act confirming the protocol in the North Atlantic Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Northern Macedonia. Congratulations to the Republic of Northern Macedonia on NATO membership! ... And I can tell you on behalf of all MPs and MPs who supported today's decision that the Republic of Macedonia will continue to support the Republic of Northern Macedonia on your path to Euro-Atlantic integration, in this case towards the EU. [[Applause]] Thanks again and congratulations. ... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130740	Please welcome students and students of the Middle School of Economics from the Križevci who have just joined in the assembly, as well as their professors and teachers, teachers and teachers. Welcome. ... In accordance with Article 247, I propose that we unite the following two points and conduct a united debate. [[Applause.]] Do you agree with that, that is, does anyone mind? Thank you very much. There's no one here. Therefore, we will unite the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on Food Activity, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, and the Final Proposal for the Law on the Amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 572. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Articles 172 and 204. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. On the occasion of the agenda, we accepted the proposal from the motion that this legislative proposal be discussed according to an urgent procedure. In accordance with Article 204. Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings of both proposed laws, the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Tourism. With us is the State Secretary at the Ministry of Tourism, Mr. Tonchi Glava, so I ask him if he wants to give an additional explanation, that is, the opening statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130741	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable parliamentary representatives. Here is a united discussion of the draft Law amending the Law on the provision of services in tourism and the draft Act amending the Law on Hostage Activity with the Final Proposal of the Law. The tourism service law regulates services in tourism, modes and conditions for providing these services, travel contracts, package arrangements and travel arrangements, and rights and obligations of traders, travellers in relation to these contracts. In the proposal of the Household Activity Act, the Household Activity Act defines the conditions of provision for legal and natural persons to provide catering services or the manner in which services can be provided. The national reform programme for 2018 set out measures to strengthen the competitiveness of the economy and improve the business environment, and in this respect measures to unify economic inspection as a basis for more effective inspection operations currently carried out in the central authorities of the state administration, in particular, inspection work if the tourism inspection is carried out by the Ministry of Tourism. Since the State Inspectorate has since 01 April 2019 taken over the tasks of inspection of the responsibility of the tourism inspection of the Ministry of Tourism, the affairs of inspection of the unregistered provision of catering activities, the provision of catering services and services in tourism from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, the Customs Administration and the affairs of the Sanitary Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health, it is necessary to carry out amendments and additions to the Law on the provision of services in tourism and the Law on catering activities. By amending those two laws, their alignment with the provisions of the State Inspectorate Act, which governs the establishment of the State Inspectorate, the management, the conditions for carrying out inspection operations under the State Inspectorate, the duties and powers of the inspector in order to protect public interest and public health interests in the implementation of the rules, and criminal liability shall be carried out. Inspections in the field of catering activities and the provision of catering services, the provision of services in tourism, are carried out by a tourist inspection. Those inspection operations shall include the provision of inspection and enforcement of the Law and other regulations governing the manner and conditions under which the legal and natural persons carry out the catering activity or catering services, the manner and conditions under which legal and physical persons provide services in tourism and the unregistered provision of catering activities or unregistered provision of catering services, the unregistered provision of services in tourism, the provision of other inspection services in accordance with the specific Act. Both Laws amend the provisions stating the tourism inspection of the Ministry of Tourism in such a way as, instead of the Ministry of Tourism, to specify the central authority of the State Administration responsible for inspection tasks, and a descriptive statement for the State Inspectorate. Thus, the draft Law amending the Law on the Food Activity of the amended provision concerns the delivery of copies of executive solutions, first-degree solutions to competent inspection bodies in accordance with the Law on the State Inspectorate, i.e. in one provision which provides the notification of the provision of catering services organised by voluntary fire companies. In two articles governing the infringement provisions, the reference to the number in brackets is amended to comply with the material provisions of the Law. In the draft Act amending the Act on the provision of services in tourism, the amended provision concerns the delivery of copies of executive first-degree solutions to competent inspection bodies, and the submission of a complaint against first-degree inspection solutions on the prohibition of the provision of services, all in accordance with the State Inspectorate Act. It is proposed to the Croatian Assembly to adopt both laws of urgency in order to avoid the occurrence of legal gaps in the conduct of inspection services within the State Inspectorate as of 01 April 2019, and to ensure the proper, effective and effective functioning of the state administration in the administrative areas which the State Inspectorate has taken over from individual central authorities of the State Administration, and in particular the reasons for the adoption of this Act by emergency procedure. The implementation of this Act does not require the provision of additional financial resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130742	Thank you, too. Does the rapporteur, i.e. the rapporteur of the Committee, want to take the floor, colleague Jelkovac and fellow Greek? No, good. I'm opening a debate. The first debate is a debate by counterpart Miro Bulja on behalf of the Club of Representatives of Independent Lists, stressing once more united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130743	Thank you, well-respected chairman, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Tourism, colleagues and colleagues. These are the technical changes to the Law on Food Activity and the Law on the provision of services in tourism, these two laws are made for the unification of economic inspections and for the re-establishment of the State Inspectorate, meaning the Technical Law, and this here is the basis of what most of them have brought, is not disputed, but today we can talk a little bit about the situation in our tourism because this is very important, this is our strongest current economic branch. I would especially talk about small tenants here, I've been staying with them for the last few months, and I've been dealing with the renters' problems, I've met with many of them, I've talked to them, I've listened to them, and I've heard mostly about the problems that have caused this particular government. Renters are our largest group of hosts, they make up almost 60% of our capacities, they have always worn and carried Croatian tourism on their shoulders, and what have they got from this government? The collection of tourist tax, the ban on providing pension and half-board services, and I also commented at that time that simply our people who have pensions, tenants who have pensions and half-boards will not burn when they come into their service to provide, simply, suitable in this way to large catering facilities, and hotelers, to the detriment of, of course, our small tenants and those who provide pension and half-board services. The government has publicly accused the tenants of unfair competition to large catering and hotel houses without talking about the flat tax. Keep your mouth shut about that. Tell the ministry gentlemen how many tenants they still don't know what their taxes will be. Here, I'll tell you what the minister last month told you about that tax flat-rate tax. This is how Minister Cappelli spoke on HRT in the day after Dnevnik, and I think that after this first blow, one quality analysis will be carried out in all cities, and when one more stable picture is taken, all of these years will be approached in a better way. Here is our tourism minister, which is, here are the PR articles, the joint forces and cooperation we will come and work on growth in quality, and in fact small tenants and those who rent pensions and half-boards are destroyed. It's tourism not only along the coast but tourism on the whole continent, I asked you a question, how many cities are there, do the tenants know what their flat-rate tax is? Based on the law you've passed on income tax, I've given it to a constitutional assessment immediately, I've also given the amendment that the law is anti-constitutional, unfortunately the Constitutional Court is here, of the 11th month. when Minister Maric presented the law here where he gave the possibility to congregations and local leaders that they would determine what the amount would be, so it turns out now 5 times the sum of those councils they did not bring, 5 times 150 to 750 kn, the mean value is taken between 150 to 1500. I.../incomprehensible/... at the Constitutional Court, I asked for an orderly, the Constitutional Court has not yet passed, and now we have no information at all in how many towns the renters in the Republic know what their flat-rate tax is. So you've created one chaos for the tenants, the bearers of our tourism. It's about 100,000 renters, and on average, six beds are like about 600 thousand beds. This tax gave me the amendment, I warned Minister Marić here that it could not be left with the possibility that the congregations and councils would bring it from 1 to 31.1. of this year because the law began to be worth 1.1.2019, which means that many now, some even had the information before that, is that even legal? It means before the 1.1rd pausal tax. Which means it's one bad trip, a blow to our little tenants. That's how our tourism minister behaves, that's our government, hit people's taxes, broke the system, and now you're going to do the analysis. Speak Minister, now we'll do the analysis. Analysis is done before laws are passed, not after that. It's not the ministry, it's not the state, it's not the municipalities and cities, just so the people fill their budgets, but work for the people and encourage both the tenants and half-boards and small tenants, not to accommodate large corporations, large hotel companies, and this is how you do it. You stop development, mainly in the continental part where the OPG deals with production, agricultural production could be a service to their product. This way you're simply, you're guessing the big one, and the little one's not allowed to rent half boards and pensions literally to roast their guests' builders. One heart builder. You've done this to small tenants, i.e. who rent pensions and half boards. The only thing you're doing I've shown about our tourism is cheap PR. Here's from this newspaper when I showed you and quoted Cappelli where the logo of our tourist community is, and I think the people see everything because this Ministry of Tourism, the Minister and this Government are transparent, you pay with a hand and a hat with our money of your advertising, and you do huge damage to our small tenants and those who rent pensions and half boards, hitting large companies. They don't need renters of your smiling faces and your fog. They need a government to work for them. They don't need to go to the flats about Croatia full of life. No matter what life I ask you. Where now many tenants don't know what tax they'll pay. After you there will be only mushrooms, amoebes and wolves and perhaps foxes because this Law on Renters, on the flat tax, has caused so much damage to these people, so much chaos in the system, and it would be really interesting to answer our question, you from the Ministry of Tourism how many units of local self-government have made a decision to pay the flat tax? And do renters in all of the Republic of Croatia know what taxes are in all units of local self-government? I gave to the Constitutional Court that for the assessment of constitutionality, I did not get an answer, and you have done great harm to those whose shoulders are tourism and these are small tenants. And it's the only ones you do damage, hitting large mostly foreign hotel chains and restaurants, of course. To ban half boards and pensions from eating food is only a convenience to consume food only in large hotels and restaurants instead of vice versa, to encourage mainly in rural areas, mainly in the hinterland, Dalmatia Zagora, Lici, Gorski kotar, Slavonia, Zagorje, the entire area of the Republic of Croatia, to encourage people to rent pensions and half boards and sell their food, OPGs. This is how you tied people's hands. And this flat tax is a disgrace. If I hadn't warned that, then, as a parliamentary representative, I gave the amendment here, I'm not talking about the amendment because it was simply wrongly passed for a flat-rate renter tax, illegal. You gave that 30 days to local self-government authorities to make that decision and what if the city council had fallen somewhere or municipally, if the budget had not been passed, in a small village, in a small municipality, 750 kn would have to be paid by the tenants, there is still no answer from the court, there is still no constitutional court because they are not doing their job as they should work, they should first consult with Shex Vladimir, who appointed there, even with the help of the SDP and the HDZ two-thirds majority. This is a hit on small tenants, on the spine of Croatian tourism. On the back of Croatian tourism. And Minister Capelli is the only thing he does with their money that pays his PR. It's working. Answer me these questions which I have asked, otherwise these 2/3 of Croatians that are empty, will be even more empty. It'll only stay as I said, amoebe, wolves and foxes, if there are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130744	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. Next debate on behalf of IDS, PGS and LRI, dear colleague Giovanni Sponza, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130745	Dear Vice-President, honourable state secretary and assistant minister, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is what the Proposer himself said, the law that is yet before us is another in a series of technical laws that is implemented by the unifying of all inspections in the State Inspectorate and as such is not essential for both competitiveness and development of Croatian tourism. We at the IDS club have consistently indicated that the topic of development of the Croatian economy should be approached from one another, from a broader perspective through a debate that will focus on key issues, what state policy is today compared to Croatian tourism and what tourism we want tomorrow. The situation in the tourism sector is such that Croatian tourism is uncompetitive, I have repeatedly stressed this because of the inadequate policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia which neither deals nor faces key problems and challenges and does not take any concrete action. With its poor tax policy in the tourism sector, the government of the Republic of Croatia reduces the competitiveness of our tourism sector compared to other Mediterranean countries, it is known that Croatia has the highest VAT rate within the Mediterranean competitive circle, about the harmfulness of the current tax policy of the Government in the tourism sector, is talking about an analysis of the impact of the VAT on the competitiveness of Croatia's accommodation and hospitality, which has shown that the current VAT rate is 25% on hospitality, is jeopardising investment, jeopardising the development cycle of tourism, but is also indirectly affecting lower wages within the tourism sector. This is precisely why Croatia, where tourism is an economic branch that has explicitly significant effects on the entire economy, must act on this issue and reduce the VAT rate but not tomorrow but today in tourism because it will act directly to raise competitiveness. This is about tax policy, but there are a number of other examples that show that the government is not thinking long-term, that the government is not thinking strategically about tourism, and now I'm going to list just some. We do not have a law on tourist land that would finally solve a fundamental problem, the status of holder of ownership rights on tourist land, the structure of accommodation facilities is uncompetitive. Since today there are only 16 to 17% of the capacity in hotels and settlements, which is a smaller percentage than it was 30 years ago when it was about 23%, there is a shortage of skilled labour, here year by year we witness fire-fighting measures that give rise to less and less results, the state does not take into account the fact that on the one hand we have a growing need for labour and, on the other hand, the departure of young people abroad, the decline of birth and the ageing of the population. Speaking of uniting inspections at the State Inspectorate, I've asked, I've asked, and I'm going to ask the question again, and what about lawless construction that's inextricably and irrevocably destroying space, if we're already talking about tourism space is one of our most valuable resources. The state has repeatedly avoided giving the necessary powers to municipalities and cities that know better about the situation on the ground and would certainly be more effective at preventing illegal construction. I have spoken and again I am asking the question, and what about the Brexit issue, with the question of potential losses to part of UK guests due to the potential adverse consequences of exiting the EU. Have we ever had a chance to hear, whether the Government has a concrete plan here with active measures to at least mitigate the possible decline in the number of arrivals of these guests? Didn't we learn a lesson when it came to the introduction of the visa regime, and as far as the Russian, the Russian high-paying power, when we were looking for a substitution substitut in the UK guests, if we didn't learn a lesson today, I'd like to hear something from the promoters on the subject. All of these are problems that affect our tourism negatively from each aspect, affect its competitiveness, and as we today have the opportunity to witness the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes a technical measure, instead of finding comprehensive and long-term implementation of solutions. And if we carry on like that, then the government will declare itself a technical government.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130746	I thank my colleague Giovanni Sponzi for this debate. Before continuing the debate, I welcome the students and students of the School of Economics from the Križevci and their professors and professors, I welcome them to the premises of the Croatian Parliament and to the pleasant stay in the Croatian Parliament. We move on to the next debate on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Anton Kleman, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130747	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues here I will remain at the heart of this bill, and these are amendments and additions to the Law on Hostage and Service in Tourism. Here we could hear today in some way replaced roles in this agenda, so all we heard today from colleagues before me could be in this point before taking positions in clubs, yet at least there was talk here about this law, although here are some things specifically with my colleagues Sponze I hold that we should talk about them, but here we will still stick to this law because some things in Croatian tourism are for discussion, but I am sure that the Ministry of Tourism in cooperation with other relevant ministries and with the Government of the Republic itself, through the government of the Republic, is counting on it and that some questions will certainly be given, will be solved. As I pointed out here there is a technical law in front of us where, in general, the roles of the mentioned inspection in previous laws where we had a tourist inspection at the Ministry of Tourism through the Law on the State Inspectorate, the powers of the tourist inspection move on to the tourist inspectorate and by force, force words, by force of law we have to simply change the word tourist inspector with an economic inspector in the very text of the law and that is the essence of this change, the changes of the laws themselves. However, a few words should be said in view of their subjectivity as a tourist inspection ends through the Ministry of Tourism, few words should say at least last year about the business the tourist inspection did. I have to say in a job that some in one part were complicated given the powers of a tourist inspection or which still has until the entry into force of the State Inspectorate Act. I would say to some of the illogicalities, in some of the reduced powers I personally consider when I was a minister that I should have had the very tourist inspectors on the ground in one I would say in an uninvited situation. Tourist inspectors really had one narrow part of the action, because practically our tourist inspectors couldn't get into the unregistered activity. For example, if someone who had been reported in black rents a room or apartment or a holiday house our tourist inspector couldn't get inside without escorting himself to customs, it could have been recorded in some arbitrary way but the real infection couldn't, it couldn't have been done because he didn't have the authority to come into such an object, but had to seek therefore police intervention and customs administration to be able to, in order to get into such an facility and then to perform in the very examination of the situation in that facility who is all staying, whether he had the necessary documentation and approval to carry out economic activity or not. So one would say the situation in which our inspectors were leading, I would say almost to madness, because I know I talked to many of them, and they were simply frustrated with that whole situation. Now, through this amendment to the law where the State Inspectorate will have united powers, I think we will end up with such phenomena and I think that the role of economic inspectors alone will be much stronger and will be able to end much more zealously with this grey economy which, in large part and especially with private owners, has spread and I would say that it has begun to be a normal phenomenon in the process itself, so, providing services, services, catering services in tourism, I would say that last year our tourist inspectors did all of the total around 9800 reviews. So, about 8700 reviews, so they did reconnaissances with legal persons and about 1100 with tourism service providers. There were no infringements of the legal rules in 8,000 checks, and in 1830 surveillance inspectors found infringements, so, through this determination of the offence, 533 were brought forward with indictments, 41 infringement warrants, in 10 cases illegally acquired property, etc. etc., 1700 manatary penalties have been charged at the scene of the infringement, tourist inspectors have issued 625 administrative solutions, there are many other actions that tourist inspectors have carried out on the ground and should say that they have done a very large job with their limited powers and have made a great contribution to address the market in providing services in tourism, as well as in catering, as well as in tourism and I think they need this opportunity, here and in some way and thank them even better, even better efficiency through the work of the State Inspectorate, for which we at the HDZ Club are holding to make a move in that part of the state administration and that they will return the dignity to the economic inspector himself, or in this case to the tourist inspector himself, where they will be able to do the work as we think they should, how they should do so far, but here, it happened that the State Inspectorate had not been lifted when it was not necessary. In any case, HDZ and the club will support this draft proposal, therefore, in an emergency procedure and here, once again in a way, since we have not heard so far, we thank all the poor tourist inspectors who have done their job so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130748	I thank my esteemed colleague Kleman. On behalf of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB, dear colleague Branko Hrg, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130749	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues, we, of course, supported the merger of all inspections in the State Inspectorate, and so we will support these amendments to the law because in fact it is only a series of activities to be carried out, but I want to take advantage of the opportunity and here to say a few more things about the issue of catering activity, in the end of the case of tourism. We have inspections that work throughout the Republic of Croatia, of course, that the Republic of Croatia cannot be viewed equally in this part of the tourism activity in the continental part, especially the rural one, to say to the more undeveloped touristic and the Adriatic part which is touristically developed, and I really believe that this kind of unification of inspections in the State Inspectorate will put the story together in a way that does not harass people with dozens of different inspections at different times, but that such activities will be united and that in some way inspections will be and that will really point to irregularities that are happening and not to close objects for petty failures, perhaps often and unintentional or possibly produced simply once inability to monitor all those legal acts that we bring. I wish these inspections could be carried out in the other part, not only in the facilities that provide tourist services, those catering services, but perhaps in some way they can be tied up to those who are crying for labour, say there is no labour force, that the problem with the labour force in the Republic of Croatia, and then when we read about it in various media and we hear the testimony of people who were in the seasonal work that were placed in an inadequate way, that they were deceived, maybe even for wages, that they were not paid the wages they were promised, then we're researched, so we'd have to see a little bit in this united part of the inspection work. I don't mind that. [[Invader Vice President: Comrade Hrg, I apologize, just a little while, my colleague Babic, I would ask you nicely not to disturb my colleague Hrga while he discusses]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130750	Please, excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130751	So, to unite such activities and really get one situation where state institutions will actually provide a quality service and protect the interest of the state with the aim of developing this strong, important economic branch that is very important in the Republic of Croatia. Somehow when we look at all this together, I connect it with the activities that are happening, and here I'm going to go back a little bit to the continental part of that catering tourist activity and say that it would be good and desirable to find some measure and some good solution to how it works because today we have situations that at a time when there is no tourist season on the Adriatic, then various inspections, and often the police are quite rigorous enough to even say that some times they live a little on the catering facilities that are in the continental part of the continental part and that often it makes it impossible for people to earn a kuna that is very hard to earn in this time in which we live in the catering part, meaning, in the very continental part of the Republic. So, when we talked before about this branch of activity and about the very hospitality that is, of course, the basis of tourism, I used to say that we should not view the continental and Adriatic parts of Croatia equally. That in the continental part of Croatia, we must really keep what we have. And today, when we are also talking about inspections and the work of tourism inspectors, then we should also see whether or not something can be done, that those facilities, which import cheap and often food of questionable quality, are a little bit more controlled than those that offer domestic products. Do you really need to look at them with the same raiser? Should we perhaps have domestic producers and people who place domestic products, yet slightly more appropriate to say, a relationship, a state of repressive institutions, which should act there. Here are several remarks and support of the unification of all inspections of the state inspectorate with a desire and a goal to really do these inspections together, to kind of connect, not to work for themselves and not to come each along their own lines to say so, often to harass those who do this work, but to be one such joint activity, with the whole improvement of this type of activity, we as a club will support these two bill proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130752	I thank my colleagues, Hrga. Next debate on the name of the GLAS and HSU Representatives Club respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritash, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130753	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished State Secretary, Assistant Minister, we have two laws in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Tourism, these are amendments to the Household Activities Act and are about amendments to the Law on the provision of services in tourism. That's what they're called. technical laws, therefore, laws that do not cause other emotions here in the debate, but we are actually talking about laws that need to be changed for a simple reason, which was passed by the State Inspectorate Act and then announced that it would take about 60 laws to change in order for the State Inspectorate to function and for all these activities to be defined in this way. When you have tourism laws, then of course, with a measure, always, as my predecessors took advantage of the opportunity to talk a little bit about tourism, but here, in the main debate, I would focus on changing and supplementing. The theme of change and supplementation is that inspections that are now, that is, inspectors who are at the Ministry of Tourism go to a united large inspectorate. When there was a debate about the State Inspectorate, I mentioned several times and said the following, and I will repeat that at this very moment. So, the decision is to be the State Inspectorate, that all the inspections that are related to economic progress, then there was a big dilemma and then today it was related to construction inspections whether the law was passed, we will have the State Inspectorate from 1 April 2019 on 1 April 2019 is in a month. It's February 28th. So with the first 1st April, the State Inspectorate should start operating at a specific location, inspectors should drive certain cars, it must be known exactly how many of them there are, approximately know their schedule, who they are going to go to, what computers they're going to use, it's colleagues and colleagues for 31 days, and we all know it's a lot less working days. At this point, it is not yet defined how many people are in the State Inspectorate, where they will sit, therefore, formally where they will be, which people from the ministries are going, because the ministries are trying now, through their regulations, to keep some of the inspectorates in some other affairs, when there has been a debate on the inspectorate, even in that sense, and we have given the amendment which was of course not accepted, we have concluded that it is too little time and that it is still taking some time and that it is being prolonged at least in a certain way. It would be good, that might be the HDZ colleagues know, but we others don't know what the principle of this State Inspectorate is, for the simple reason, to create some kind of pyramid, some kind of management system, to ensure that no inspectors are sought when it comes to tourism in the Ministry of Tourism and that they are located in the Inspectorate. So, what my experiences aren't so very little saying, absolutely at this point, in this transitional period, will make a circus, we won't know anymore, who's where, why and why. But there are some things you need to prepare yourself for. Then I took advantage of something and I said don't mess up with another mess. I was one of those, regardless, you know that I was, therefore, in one coalition... And then I warned, and I didn't think it was good when the Great Inspectorate went to other ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seemed to me that it was not good and it turned out that it was not good and that it was better that it remained in her place especially... These economic inspections, because it can be better, more efficient, it's simpler for those who report it, is simpler for those who have to act on it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course the decision was different, we as junior coalition partners took that decision and then warned, I used what I told you in a debate, and I don't like it when I have to say after two or three years I did. Likewise, in this debate I said, my people, be well prepared, we want our inspection to be expedient. When it comes to this inspection, there is an even more sensitive situation, I am, and I really think that the role of the inspector and the inspector must be in that educational section, in the part where it's important that they are on the ground. What we still see, we see the consequence, we see a certain punishment, when it comes to the tourist inspection, they are absolutely not good pictures, which our neighbors of course take advantage of. Everyone's fighting on that tourist plan for the same people. Of course, when in Croatia the inspector during the tourist season of this outside and some punishment, the first to announce it, our neighbours who are also fighting for this guest say here you see, in Croatia the guests were immediately chased, the inspector came out, punished someone for 2 kn, that's not happening with us. So, when it comes to the tourist inspection, we really need to take care of this picture that we send out, and that's where the inspector's role is very important. So this educational character of him, about it is much better to do both some workshops and some round tables, give a hill of interpretation outside than act when the inspection comes out and works. So what I'm saying is, it's very questionable that 1.4, 1.4, the State Inspectorate is going to work, and it's supposed to buy a building that's perfectly legitimate and okay. The question is if they'll be able to do it by then, the question is how many people they'll be. I have very little and I listen to colleagues who are in certain ministries, so they give, when they have to give both a piece and a car and everything, and then it's seen that... So, we all know, they're all bloody under the skin, which is where it's done. Now, when the whole procedure is done by someone who will eventually not be the head of that inspection, he does because he has to do it and scribble what he did. Someone who would be in charge who would lie would do something different, but on the soul of those who decided to do it that way. When we talk about tourism and when we talk about it at all, I have a few things to say about tourism. When did the big expansion of tourism take place in Croatia? There in 65th, 66th, when the Adriatic highway was built, when the entire Yugoslavia so, Slovenia, Croatia, the small part of BiH and Montenegro decided to turn towards Europe, i.e. the highway was made, and the whole policy was that foreigners could come to our space and once the coast became the source of additional income. What is it, how did it happen? In fact, thanks to the roads that have allowed the whole part to be good and acceptable, as all branches of the economy change from day to day, it changes in real time, so tourism is changing, so the whole branch is changing at all. I was doing some articles and writing just about planning tourist zones, then, at the end of the 1970s, it was the biggest expansion of the construction of tourist zones and hotels, how many beds could be in the hotel was dimensioned according to how many surface towels could come to the beach. So then, there was a towel specified 0.5, 0.6 square meters, then you looked at the surface of all these towels and according to how many towels can be on the beach, the hotel could have been for the number of users. Today it's different and we need to adapt to it. We from the Civil Liberal Union, so the name is saying that we absolutely advocate all possible species and we can't have one species, so we have to have hotels, we have to encourage private investments, we have to encourage small butik hotels and it's not all the same. You can also see that in a very short time, Split, which was a transit city where tourists came because they were on a ferry with the car and went to the island. It's the same thing that changes the continent. For all of this together, so you have to give some answers and what will be a key issue when it comes to tourism, two problems, one problem is generally everyone says when tourism is 20% of GDP, then you're in trouble because you depend on beautiful days, depending on whether it's a football world or a European championship, you depend on other things. Since you have, to develop all possible tourism branches, cultural tourism, religious tourism, adventure, so they all encourage everything else, see in Croatia something that was unimaginable 10 years ago is developing and continental tourism is simply more that, this number of sunny days and this sea is not the only thing we offer, and it is good that we do not and come up with a key problem in tourism, which is the problem of labour. Already last year, tourism workers said we won't be able to work because there are no people who will work. In that I'm not talking, I'm talking about that basic labor force, someone who's going to clean up, someone who's going to be an assistant kitchen worker, you're even going to get a good cook because you're going to pay him well. Auxiliary task force. In conclusion, I would like to say this, it is really difficult to discuss these laws that are related to tourism so as not to touch what tourism is for Croatia, which are benefits and what problems are. At this point is a key problem, a labour problem, and as far as inspection is concerned, it's generally good that economic inspection is in one place, but what's not good is that we make it very easy to pass the law, we don't prepare in an adequate way, in 30 days the State Inspectorate will start functioning. At this point, there is no answer either where or who is going to be, what kind of structure is it going to be, and we're really going to get an inspection, as we said in the debate, to work at the end of the year, and there's another question that's going to be asked. I remember the debate well when there was a debate when the State Inspectorate went to individual inspections in individual ministries. At that time, your colleagues from the Ministry of Tourism, and your ministries are changing ministers, possibly State Secretarys and Assistants, these other people down there remain the same to you, claiming that it is very good that the inspection goes to the Ministry of Tourism because it is in a certain way better for them. It seemed wrong to me then, and I think that the economic inspection should be in one place, so I suppose that this experience of 3.4 years where the inspection was in the tourism ministry has proved to be not quite right, it would be interesting to know how many inspectors it is and perhaps in some replica to the final exposure to ask how many inspectors there are, whether everything about the tourism ministry is done and whether these inspectors are really going to be in some place and able to function, that's actually a key question. We have the Law on the Great State Inspectorate, we're going to change, I see that there are more laws to be amended, 60 laws have been said to create all conditions for them to work but it's a question of when the State Inspectorate will function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130754	I thank my colleague, Anki Dark Taritash. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Davor Bernardic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130755	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, may at first be best on the relationship of this government to the tourism sector, saying that there are neither ministers nor deputies here today, therefore, everything is clear here when tourism is concerned. And the only goal of these proposed amendments to the law is to transfer the power and control centre to one place so that they can carry out repressive measures as easily as possible and the food and tourism hubs on a political basis. And speaking of tourism, this government loves to boast successfully about the tourist season and does not have much influence or merit. There is no short-term plan but also no long-term strategy. A good season just happens to us because of tradition, because of the natural beauty of our country but primarily because of the enthusiasm, effort and pawnage and hospitality of people who deal with tourism. And instead of stimulating the development and further strengthening and competitiveness of tourism as the strongest economic branches, this government is actually suffocating and destroying it with various pressures and tax burdens, and this is the complete truth because this same tourism has the highest share of GDP. Such a large share actually shows and points to the disastrous economic situation in Croatia. We rely on tourism revenues that save the country from bankruptcy and it actually shows that something is wrong with the Croatian economy. The growth of tourism revenues in itself is excellent news but what is worrying, that even 1/5 of the country's revenues, depends on one single sector. It depends on the same tourism that is prone to the influence of various external factors that we cannot control. And generally, the government's relationship to tourism is incomprehensible. This government has made five major hits on the leading economic sector. The first blow, the VAT rate in the catering was lifted and we are now the Mediterranean country with the highest VAT rate in this sector. The second blow, a recently increased tourist tax for guests in nautical tourism, in certain cases 10 times.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130756	Excuse me, just a little buddy Bernardic. Comrade Maras, I would ask you nicely, your president speaks, do not disturb him in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130757	Third strike, tourist tax increased for guests in accommodation facilities 25%. The fourth strike, a decision has been made to increase the flat tax for small tenants who can go up to 5 times. And the fifth strike, especially on the decision to increase the sheets, is the same cochlean loaded with a cut. So on the one hand, I have a recovery of our competitive markets, Turkey, Greece, the Middle East, which means new pressure and a slowdown in the growth of Croatia's tourism so far. And on the other hand, we have a completely reckless government policy that continuously increases the burdens in this for Croatia's extremely important economic sector, I guess on the principle "take where there is more". Today we are witnessing only technical and cosmetic changes to the law instead of today discussing changes to laws that would really aim to help tourism, that is what is most regrettable. And that is why we will help develop this same tourism if not before, when we take responsibility for Croatia for the third time, reduce VAT rates to 13% in catering and 10% in accommodation by modeling countries with the most developed tourism in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130758	Thank you, colleague Bernardic for the debate. No more deputies in the state administration, now state secretaries and assistant ministers, just for information. Next on behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, dear colleague Mario Habek, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130759	Dear Vice President, representatives of the tourism ministry. So here are the two laws that we have united and, as we know, since the State Inspectorate has since 1 April 2019 taken over inspection tasks from the responsibility of the tourism inspection of the Ministry of Tourism, the affairs of inspection, the unregistered exercise of catering activities, the provision of catering services and services in tourism from the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, the customs administration and the affairs of the health ministry, through the change of two laws, their alignment with... The State Inspectorate Act. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Both laws throughout the text amend the provisions stating the tourism inspection of the Ministry of Tourism in such a way as, instead of the Ministry of Tourism, to specify the central body of the state administration responsible for inspection tasks or the State Inspectorate. When we talk about the State Inspectorate and about the inspectors on the ground, I would like to point out perhaps a few facts that we often witness in public, which is primarily education, we often mention that we should educate both catering workers and other tourist workers in a way that is as few punishments as possible, but I would also like you to be inspectors, or inspectors, who, instead of bringing up education on the ground, often reach for the most severe punishment, which is the punishment immediately from the document. Of course, laws should be respected, procedures, regulations and everything else should be followed, but I also think it would also be good for the inspection to, for some time, be educated in the way that at the beginning of people who are really wrong, help them to be educated, to help them, to help them, not to talk about those great offenders who are dealing with thieving and harming the state budget, but to talk about people who can really at some point and make mistakes. When we look at the data in Croatian tourism on the economic side, the figures are excellent. Here, in 2018. Almost 20 million arrivals were made, over 100 million overnight stays, also in the first 9 months of 2018. The revenue of 9 total, over EUR 9 billion, at the level of the year will be estimated at around €11.12 billion, and these are extremely large figures for every praise. And also, here's when we talk about tourism, and now it's about this Tourism Act, I'd like to maybe mention some of the problems that exist on the ground, which I'd like, here's what I'd like to say, is that maybe the tourism ministry is trying to find some models to solve these problems. I think that continental tourism is still neglected in some way, I think that we should maybe invest more in the development of this continental tourism, of course, that much less tourism revenues are achieved on the continent than at sea, but we also need to be aware that the continent has to work a lot harder to come up with content and offers which, of course, will attract tourists. I believe that the continent has great potential to develop tourism in all 365 days of the year, but of course, there are also additional assistance from the ministry. I will give an example, here Varazdin belongs to the eighth group of units of local self-government according to the Index of Development and according to the Regulation on assistance in tourist communities in the tourist underdeveloped areas and does not belong to an undeveloped area, and it cannot be answered for public calls for support to the tourist communities in the tourist underdeveloped areas of the Croatian tourist community. An even better example is the city of Ludbreg, which belongs to the seventh group of units of local self-government according to the development index and can also count on the financial support of HTZ for tourism projects in its field, unless this is the event. There are examples that are still safe in the Republic of Croatia, so I believe that if these environments are already cut off, and they cannot report for their development for support for tourist underdeveloped areas, they should find ways and provide a mode for them to support themselves through perhaps another model, help, because they also make a big contribution to filling the state budget, and of course to the HTZ budget. The original revenues of smaller local tourist communities on the continent are incomparably smaller than those at sea, I think that in some situations it is climbing to 12 times less income, I think that here, for this reason local communities should be helped to develop tourism and tourism... on the continent, meaning, some additional possibility of helping all these smaller tourist communities. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] We also constantly encourage the entities to withdraw as much money as possible from the European Funds, and small tourist communities, and especially those on the continent, although they have great ideas, cannot apply to European competitions and withdraw European money because they simply do not have the necessary 15 to 25% of the funds depending on the competition, so those own funds to participate in the project itself. If the local community does not jump in and help them, they do not have the opportunity to withdraw European money. Now, can my question, within the HTZ or the Ministry of Tourism, be formed by a fund that would help local tourist communities withdraw European money is my question that maybe here's the answer, there might be some kind of wish, a will to make such a thing, ideas. There is also one problem that is that in areas where there are no established tourist communities, business entities do not pay tourist membership, and tourist communities and counties, they are obliged to keep an account in those areas where there are no local tourist communities, so I think it would be much fairer for legal and physical persons to be bonds of payment of fees, and for the income to be shared between the county tourist community and HTZ. Here, these are some kind of short observations, observations on behalf of the club, of course, we listen daily to these problems of people from the field, and here I'm asking you to find some models to solve these problems that I've been talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130760	I thank my colleague Habek and apologize for calling you independent, you're on behalf of the HNS Club, once again my apologies. Now on behalf of the Independents' Club, dear colleague Tomislav Žagar, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130761	Thank you, Vice President HS, distinguished secretary of state with associate, colleague and colleague, here is another legislative proposal that is a little later coming from that law package that we've changed, and it's about unifying the State Inspectorate, and here comes at the end of February, and here is counterpart Mrak Taritash when she... Indeed, the Inspectorate Act adopted here in this State Inspectorate, which was adopted in HS, states that the beginning of his work on April 1st, and in fact we can all suspect that this is really going to happen because there is little time left and the truth here are now representatives of the Ministry of Tourism who have come to the amendments to this law although they are disowning themselves now, in fact, from their respective ministry, the inspection of tourists in the State Inspectorate, could be said this funnyly at the coming time, you are giving up inspections. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, although the tourism ministry is now denying inspections, it is leaving for the State Inspectorate, it does not stop the mission and role of the tourism ministry to raise the quality and level of Croatian tourism primarily because of the competitiveness of Croatian tourism. I didn't have a colleague from when he spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club talking about the 2018 data I couldn't find them, maybe it was my fault, I found some data from 2017, which can help us understand some things better. According to these data we have 54 tourist inspectors, they then carried out, in 2017, 10,500 inspection controls, 10,489 precisely. According to data from a HDZ colleague last year, about 9,000, I think it's that number somewhere, let's say about 10,000. As regards catering, 9,682 controls were carried out there, and 807 controls relate to the business of the provider of tourism services. Now if we go to these, these, these, controls from the catering area then we can see that 7.277 inspection controls refer to catering facilities for food, drink and drinks, for comparison there are 276 hotels, 27 camps, but remember the details of 7.277 we can say this kind of cafe, restaurant, most of it. From the area of tourism, of course, it's a smaller number of these themselves, the very surveillance. It is not negligible that 1,511 supervisions have been carried out by inspectors according to the performances and reports of legal and physical persons of the institutions, which is 14% of the total supervision. Of these reported, 60% of the applications were justified. However, when we talk about the total number of supervisions of 73% of supervised entities and facilities, it was done in accordance with the regulations. So, most of it was fine. And then we get paid fines, 71 violations of the order totalling 143,078 kuna, and 2,476 penalties amounting to 3,881,750 kuna or total 4,069,258 kuna were charged. Remember once again this number 4,069.000 kuna. Croatian tourism last year about 12 billion euros in revenue, we are talking about 4,069.000 kuna. The biggest complaint, the biggest reason why citizens in the Republic of Croatia are rebelling, starting with the caterers, of course, assuming they don't, that in the beginning we don't think they're all criminals and everyone's trying to trick the country. The main objection is why so much repression, which is what it wants to achieve, why of all these 7500 controls you go to cafes, I'm not talking to you personally, but your inspectors, they're going to be in the State Inspectorate now, but trust me, they're going to be in your closet. I'll read it one more time, maybe I'm bored with this, but I want to read it, it's not a tourist inspector, it's a customs inspector that belongs to the economics, right? It is said that, in a specific case, it is about committing part of the infringement of an exceptional and obvious social danger directly undermining the stability and fundamental meaning of the tax system arrangements with directly harmful social contexts for the stability of the total tax system of the Republic of Croatia, etc. As a criminal act directly aimed at the tax ejaculation of broader scales, the illegal treatment of obvious social harmful meanings and consequences, which undermines directly and deeply the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, the tax system as a whole, the financial stability of the entire state and endangers the financing of public needs and thus the functioning of society as a whole. That's what it says in one inspection. If we have this kind of inspection surveillance, and people say, be careful not because we'd like to stress it out here right now, people say if they find 50 limes there in the register, and then they get a solution like this, it's not a good message. To get back to the point, let's, let's get an inspection on how it's intended to go to the State Inspectorate, but it should really be taken into account that of these 12 billion-euro income figures, we're not creating ourselves a problem, because the question of whether these 4 million kunas of fines are paid is either inciting or damaging Croatian tourism. That's the question. And just here for the end, what does it say on the pages of the Ministry of Tourism, and when we talk about a tourist inspection, what are the recommendations or what are the difficulties? The use of inadequate databases in catering and tourist facilities, the database of legal and physical persons from the application e-indicator contains incomplete data from the craft and court register which are not sufficient to plan inspection controls on catering and tourist facilities, an insufficient number of tourist inspectors, is the correct number that there are 54, not, please tell us how much, if there is a need for additional operational costs in remote facilities, subjects of inspection supervision, for example. facilities on remote islands, lack of budgetary resources in the event of the need for additional operational costs in spatially remote objects, non-recognition of the need to co-operate either from the independent tourism inspection sector or bodies that require the implementation of cooperation for the purpose of economic and rationalisation of the conduct of inspection controls. No proportion of the number of complaints received in relation to the number of perpetrators in the independent sector of the tourism inspection, not the proportion of the number of complaints received in relation to the number of tourist inspectors in the catering and tourism service, possible technical disturbances in the work with the e-visitor information system in view of the request, not the proportion of the number of submissions received by the authorities of the state administration and other bodies and the journalistic questions in relation to the number of enforcement officers in the control service, the question of the functionality of the e-Visitor information system, the question of complications when switching to the new system guided database on the application of the e-insident as well as the time needed for the realization of the same, etc., I will not read all these instructions. What I want to conclude on behalf of the club here is that we do not have any problem with, let this law be technically implemented, let the inspectors go to the State Inspectorate, but there does not stop the job, that job begins and the representatives of the Ministry of Tourism cannot now be fenced and tell us now that our inspectors are in the State Inspectorate, stop our responsibility, Croatian tourism needs to be developed, we will not do so with repression but encouraging measures, and therefore we call you when we talk about marine tourism, but also when we talk about continental tourism, make more efforts to visit objects, see what conditions people are doing and what they face because here when Croatian entrepreneurship is concerned with wherever you come from, you can mainly get an answer that you can't, and rarely where you can get an answer as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130762	I'd like to thank my colleague, Sagar. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Stjepan Curaj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130763	I thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues. So, I think, today, we are discussing literally two articles of the amendment of the Law on Attending Activity and the provision of services in tourism relating to the already mentioned and... The unification of all market inspections, all the inspections that have actually been so far, were 17 in eight ministries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then I was saying, with this package of laws, I'm going to repeat now, yes, and so am I personally, and so is the CNS that for that kind of reconstruction, if it brings a discharge of repression, that if it means more warnings, more prevention, and less punishment, then one big DA, but in today we have a situation to go out on the ground with one economic operator six, seven inspectors, and they write him six sentences, or five irrelevantly, almost every other one saw and did something. Now that it's under one hat, one can come out for everyone, or the team as it's already organized, can for any of the areas of the State Inspectorate, and that's what tourism is about, means if you go to catering facilities and you don't have a possibly trash basket in the toilet, and for such people they've been given penalties, or warm-cold water, mirror, special pre-space and so on, or a series of things, or a special closet for employees, especially sanitarys for employees and so on, something here cuts with minimum technical conditions, or something condition and minimum technical conditions, and something like that, always be banal, forgotten, one of the employees has not performed their duty, and one host gets a penalty. I ask you if he should punish that employee, take all that from his salary, or maybe he didn't return the trash can after he emptied it? That's why I always say prevention, always warning. Of course, for those who are relapsed, those who repeatedly through one, two, three inspections have the same problem and the same irregularity, if you should be punished, perhaps even more than is now. Because the purpose of this whole thing is not to punish people, then we need to close everything right now, but to have as competitive a service as possible, as competitive tourism as possible. To know when it comes to Croatia that the levels and standards are far higher than anywhere else, and be sure whoever traveled a little bit, so they always have, and I have asked myself, in large cities, and in large restaurants, not half of those minimum technical conditions that are prescribed by us. How do they do that, because they're so much smarter than us, how can they not, with us, have to? That's another maybe a pair of gloves. But the point of this, today what we have here is just to unite and YES if it goes into prevention, in less exits, less stressful situations, less closures, less obstructions in business because when an inspector comes to you, when everyone has to be around him, all the documents can be made, reports signed, and then indications of those records, so possibly if something has been found, and it isn't given, maybe it's a warning then to court, then a misdemeanor, and so on. And especially when we talk about some banal examples, I believe there aren't many, but you know what it's like when you come from Slavonia, where I come from, then you have a small number of residents relatively to, relative to a large number of inspectors, and then you just don't have so many subjects and you have to find something, people have to, so at least they tell them that they can't last months that they haven't found any irregularities, and then they grab on to all these little things. Either where Zagreb is, or where there is a large tourist centre, perhaps the number of inspectors in relation to the number of inhabitants, or the number of businesses or the number of economic operators, leads to the fact that there is not so much possible repression here. In Slavonia, unfortunately, when we talk about tax inspection, it's extraordinary, because with us, it's only a rule, and pro-inspection if you report a refund of overpaid tax, a pre-tax, it always comes to your attention, there's no exception. Only where it was found there that there were certain crafts or certain services where let's say it normally, then there they realize after three times that they don't have to come every time. So this is something that absolutely needs to be supported, and should continue to follow, and control, and see what the effects are, and the effects must be more quality, quality service, less or greater discharge of our economic operators or employers or caterers, and those who provide services in tourism, therefore to the tenants and all that, and of course increased economic activities. It must be a point, to make everything more transparent, better, more efficient, to bring more income, that everyone is satisfied, and that those who are constantly breaking, that they are severely sanctioned, and even shut down, because it is pure insolence, and that is pure unfair competition, and there must not be, I mean, empathy towards anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130764	I thank my esteemed colleague, Curaya. We have a replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130765	Thank you very much. Mr. Curaj, in this presentation of yours, you said that you advocated this attachment if it means yes, now, there seems to be a questionnaire in your presentation as if you're not sure whether it means yes or no, so you should first know if it means yes, so then you both support it, so this is how you go on, to my mother, no. So they told us from the government and we believe. So are you really convinced that this means yes, what you said, a more effective story, or are you, or are you still insecure and will only see what happens, and if you're sure that it means yes, which is why four years ago you were sure exactly the opposite, that these inspections should be separated? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130766	Thank you. My colleague Curaj's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130767	... The purpose of your exposure was that we were gullible, so we trust you, so now we trust someone else, I don't see it that way, if then we were wrong to believe you, then.../incomprehensible/... partners, now we're wrong again, like we screwed you up, and now you don't see that they're trying to fool you again, right? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, so what's the point of this debate is absolutely, if it's put into the reasoning of the law, that is, this package of laws, which are the objectives, and if I say it out loud and clear, then it means that we support it. Of course, we must always have one reserve. I believe that there will be no need for her, that these goals may not be fully met. But it's on the proposer, and that's why we're gonna hold him. And we support it, and we will support it, but with these goals to be met. Not so much as maybe we're learning from our example together, it's right there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130768	Thank you for your response, colleague Curaj. We're moving on to the next debate. Dear colleague Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130769	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. I have to get ready because I've been doing other jobs here. What I'm trying to say about this is that we're like a country of gourmets, we're peeling caterers and caterers unnecessarily for small things because someone doesn't have a hanger, because someone doesn't have paper in the bathroom at some point, so obviously it's only done to fill the budget. Not to punish someone who really doesn't do their job right. I have experience, I have in my building people who are engaged in catering and they're all valuable, honest, moral as far as I know and they've paid such fines for some nonsense that it's funny to simply charge for such things, because there's 10 kuna extra in the register, 100 kuna extra in the register. Mother 100 kuna. Well, can't we limit these things to some kind of normal? Can we not give first warning and then punish? Why are these inspectors when they get in there in control, why are they acting up, like they came from some cloud, like they're not people from this world? Why is it because they represent the state that they think they're smarter than those people who work? So, I appeal to the government above all, to HDZ, to the government of the Republic of Croatia to change the violation provisions in such a way as to introduce warnings, in a way that some minor violations are not punishable, possibly punishable if repeated, to allow people to do normal, e.g. If they came to the Konzum or some other shopping center, if they checked the cashier's account, it wouldn't have been worth anything, it wouldn't have been possible for someone to sell one car a day, and if they were selling 1,000 cakes or 1,000 alcoholic drinks, non-alcoholic drinks, coffee, it's not the same. So in a situation like this, a problem can happen. People tip waiters, it's a normal thing, I apologize for your Turkishism, but it's usually that Turkishism with us. It's common to leave that tip, it's common, it doesn't always be a waiter put it right in his pocket, or somewhere on the side, maybe he'll leave it in the register so it'll be extra. Let's go take a look at these breaking provisions, let's apply it, let's make it easier for people to live and not be bold and rude and act like the whole world is ours, and the people who work, let them pay, who cut them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130770	I thank my esteemed colleague, Alexic. We have one replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130771	Thank you very much. Comrade Alexic, what you were talking about is exactly the change that lies in this State Inspectorate Act. That's where they're talking about that educational part. So it's not the point of repressive, but it's the essence of a partner, familiarized, alerted, and even educated, informing a craftsman, whether an entrepreneur, because simply small craftsmen, small entrepreneurs have neither the means nor the ability to educate, and that's the case where the inspectorate needs to be done. The same story is with the IRS. These stories that someone locked someone up for a kuna don't just stand there. Someone received a few warnings before that, and when he was a relapser, he kept repeating himself, then he simply went repressive. These are the stories she simply said, because all those who spoke when the tax administration called to prove it, no one ever answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130772	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. Answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130773	I thank you, I didn't say that anyone was locked up, since I didn't say closed up, I said that people paid the fine, I didn't talk about closing up at all, you heard something wrong, that's the first thing. And the other thing, being recommended to do something does not mean that it is prescribed, therefore, in the violation provisions to write in advance how to punish, how to punish, and why to punish. In violation provisions, it doesn't say what you're talking about. Violent provisions say punishment and good-bye, and the recommendation that someone do one thing or another is another story entirely. Therefore, it does not hold water and it is necessary to make it much better to prescribe it, write it specifically and precisely what are some limits above which the penalty is paid, under which it is not paid, if repeated, will be paid, etc., etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130774	I thank my esteemed colleague Alexic for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130775	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Alexic, there were no cases in Croatia where the bars are closed in this way that you said because of several kunas, 10, 20, we had a whole series of articles during the tourist season that people are simply trembling, so this is no longer about some intentional fraud but it's about people doing even more damage to them because of the traffic in cash sometimes and forgetting maybe 5 or 10 kunas get removed from the register and then the inspectors come and close the story for a week and doing them even more damage than they paid the fine. So it's not even sometimes a problem to pay people a fine, but when you close them down, you've done them extra damage, not only to them, but to the people who work there, so that kind of educational approach absolutely to you that you've given in your presentation I support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130776	Thank you. Answer, colleague Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130777	Thank you. Dear fellow Maras, I say again, I didn't say they were closing, I know that they are closing because of some situations, but I was talking specifically about high sentences because someone doesn't have a hanger, because they found him no paper in the toilet, because he had an extra of 100 kuna in the register, less than 100 kuna, I was talking about such situations, and it's inadmissible to be limited, there must be some kind of minimum that is tolerated and it won't be tolerated if it's repeated for the third, fourth time, and it's not immediately being punished for a little bit, because the fines are huge, for a small and for a greater offence than 2,000.00 kuna fine, for example, so he can make, write 5,000.00 kuna fines because someone has a hundred kuna in the register, or error in the register, I was saying, it's unacceptable and it has to be interrupted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130778	Thank you, colleague Alkesic. We move on to the next debate, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović. He's not present. Dear colleague Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130779	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. When we talk about this subject, we need to consider a few aspects. One is touristic and this is a story that has lasted for several years, and that is that we have raised VAT for our guests in the Republic of Croatia and thus put them in a much more unfavourable position than they were yesterday, and in some ways and as far as other tourist destinations are concerned, but also as far as their business is concerned, because the prices are as they are and people can't raise prices to compensate for the 12% burden that the HDZ Government has unfortunately given them, headed by Prime Minister Andrej Plenkovic. And that's a fact. People know that, people are aware of that, people have been protesting it for several years now, and we have nothing new at the moment but the announcement by Minister Gary Cappelli that in 2020 will be considered and that VAT will be reduced in hospitality. How much? We don't know. In what way? We don't know. The only thing we know is that it's an election year, and that's the announcement that the minister made is very likely to think he'll get a point or two during that tourist season right before the elections. And when we talk about billions of kunas that have been taken away from the tourism sector in this way, if we talk about the revenues from tourism that have exceeded 10, eleven billion euros, and when we talk about a significant part of it being taxed by 12% more than it was three years ago, then it's easy to count up to billions of kunas that every year the state takes to the tourist sector, to the catering sector, and thus puts them in a more unfavourable position. And then the very simple question is why is it done, why is the part that has put Croatia de facto investment and economics into a more unfavourable position for the past few years? This logically cannot be answered by anyone, and nobody probably knows the answer except Minister Maric, who thus receives perhaps three, four billion kunas more annually than VAT in the state budget. On the other hand, my view is that exactly the opposite, not to return to 13, but to cut to 10, even more competitive and to drive them even more away from that tax cost that they can simply function and be as competitive as other countries in the environment. What we should also consider, and we are talking about inspections, we are now in a whole series of activities in order to unite and put the inspections under one cap, because this is probably how it is imagined and done to enable one official, and this action is already going on about-ho-ho, so that this action is already going on for several months so that one HDZ official gets a powerful weapon directly under the patronate of the prime minister and to make an inspection that he would then exclusively control. So now we're not talking at all, we're not talking about some efficiency, we're not talking about something that's better, we're just before, we're listening to a gentleman from the HNS who talked about four years ago thinking one thing, this year he thinks another, it's not even some big, big surprise, it happens in half a year, not in half, in one, two days to change an absolute opinion like it was when, when the situation where the main critics of Plenkovic's government became the main partners of Plenkovic's government, so it happened practically overnight. So we have a situation of incompetence of our tourism, we have a situation where one person is wronged and arranged for as many powers as possible, and the third situation that he spoke about earlier and fellow Alexic, so many absurdities and indifference in the work of the inspection is very rarely found as in the work of Croatian inspection services. Here, for example, a man got a ticket after he got sick, had to close the place, go to the ER, means to save his life, and since he wasn't lucky that the inspector who saw the place closed came along, wrote him a ticket, and the Criminal Court cut him off 5,000.00 kuna. Nothing helped either to explain the inspection, and unfortunately later to the Court, because the Court is holding directly to the reports of the inspectorate or the inspection, and the man paid the fine he paid. Because of what he was sick of. He closed the place down, went to the E.R., and then still paid 5.000 kuna. And that was said by fellow Alexic, that the law should also provide for the possibility and certain situations that are extraordinary, which are not, I would say in some normal daily situations, to take into account and not to take away people's bread, not to punish them and to allow them to work normally. If I didn't talk about hundreds and even thousands of guests who, during the season due to a couple of kunas 10, 15, 20 kunas closed down, where people remain unaccounted for, not only their own, they might still be able to handle it, but they remain without income and those who work for them, where thousands of people thus don't have the opportunity to do the job because 5 or 10 or 15 or 20 kuna find extra or missing in the register at that time. So what we want and what we should want to achieve by inspection is the education of people, that people, of course, those who cheat, cheat, but trust me won't burden me with any punishment. There are locals on the Croatian Adriatic that work without a bill, for huge money, they have daily turnovers of EUR 30, 40, 50, and they count once they will come to us during the season, the inspector will give me a fine, no matter how much I pay to pay for the win again because I won't pay 25% of the VAT. So on the other hand, on the other hand, we do not achieve the purpose of inspection, we do not work in the way that we should work or when we look at the competitiveness of tourism to go into tax discharge, we did so at the beginning of the HDZ mandate to rise by 12% of VAT and now the question is, at all, how much should we lower that money back in 2020. It means that now you put in a 0% VAT you couldn't pay back as much as you took tourism or hosts for the term of office in 3 years. So it's just tossing dust in the eyes and there's really nothing to be done, nothing will be done, nothing can be done. And finally, when we talk about this law, I, or the SDP Representatives' Club, we simply see no benefit from the law which, which this government will pass until these important things that I have just talked about are resolved, and the most important thing is the competitiveness of our tourism and the competitiveness of the caterers who have lost that competitiveness because of HDZ and the funny story, I now have to mention this once again about food and less VAT on food, where I explained a few days ago that basically the caterers will have even more cost than that. So they'll have more cost than they've had so far means even though it helps a wider spectrum of citizens, the caterers won't see any use there. So here, gentlemen of the ministry, I urge you to take concrete measures to help people, not to reorganize the law for one official to do so immediately, and when it comes to helping the caterers, nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130780	Thank you, colleague Maras. Replicas, dear colleague Stevo Culej.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130781	Dear Vice President, my colleague Maras, I don't want to talk about Beolasica, too many times, but I'm interested in you being the minister of entrepreneurship, working, you've been a great expert in the sector, so I'm interested in how you supported your government in tourism, so you've hired your former president of Mr. Milanovic's cousin's party, who was surprisingly 23 years before that job retired former JNA. With which professional perfomans and quality he managed to get there, except he was a cousin of Mr Milanovic. Tell me openly here to all of us about this profession.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130782	I thank my colleague Culey, I would ask you nicely to replicate on the subject that Mr. Maras spoke about, and not on other matters, but here you are, since I have let you speak, fellow Maras answer please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130783	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey, every time he makes me rich with something new, it was the last time he was a wire town, and now he's the Department of Entrepreneurship and Labour. So that's how Mr. Culey rules matter, because he knows the name of a ministry that none of us here know. So it's so deep in matter that simply those of us who follow this government and the ministry are always as surprised as it is in front of us. So he made the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Labour... No, no, it's not a great honor, Mr. Culey. I admire you. It's wonderful how you manage to take a step ahead of all of us here. [[Intruder: You don't understand.]] And on the other hand, I can see that JNA's sting is probably because of tanks from Slavonski Brod, but on the other hand, maybe if it hadn't worked so well in Slavonski Brod, there might have been fewer of those that Fred Matić pierced on Trpinjska Road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130784	Thank you, Mr. Maras, for the next replica of the esteemed colleague Allen Prelec, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130785	Thank you esteemed chairman, so I colleague Maras as Mr. Culey on some things from the past, here I have to agree with you that we really can't, we can't be satisfied with the punishment of small, small hosts, small entrepreneurs, and that's actually settled practice with us, but big fish don't touch. Unfortunately, it is so in Croatia, whether it is official politics, so that here is better to touch small than big or what it is, today in Croatia you must have, in fact, the most important thing is to have a good lawyer. Unfortunately, small hosts, small entrepreneurs, entrepreneurs don't have a good lawyer and they can't pay a good lawyer and they can't pay a good lawyer to defend in court and those big systems can afford it. Here, it turns out really in Croatia it doesn't matter whether you're good, bad or wrong or not, it's only important that you have money and you can pay for a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130786	Thank you. My colleague Maras' answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130787	Thank you very much. Mr. Prelec, you're right, the weakest always get hurt and the big systems are unfortunately passing protected, and you'll very rarely see an inspection in some big hotel house the way you'll see someone when you close down the place where he and his family are working, or this man who got sick, and unfortunately he had to end up in the E.R., and then the inspection knocked him five thousand kunas. But I don't agree with you that big fish don't touch. I heard, for example, this year on the days of Croatian tourism that a lot of big fish touched, teeth, brans, so the good pieces were dealt with so that, and the big fish fellow Prelec knew how to touch each other in certain situations, unfortunately it is usually when a festival is organised by the ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130788	Thank you, colleague Maras. Next replica, dear colleague Maria Alfirev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130789	Thank you, Your Honor. Comrade Maras, what I definitely agree with you is the key to what is actually a function of the State Inspectorate, i.e. a tourist inspection, and which should be because we are really asking whether we care that people, entrepreneurs work, continue to carry out their activities or really care about being punished. It is therefore necessary to carry out an inspection and to determine whether there have been certain irregularities and, if necessary, if appropriate and appropriate penalties. But indeed, any such verification must lead to this not to automatically stop the work, to stop some production of services, but to actually have a purpose, a continuation of activity, a continuation of entrepreneurship.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130790	Thank you, colleague Alfirev, for your response to my colleague Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130791	Thank you very much. That is exactly what this is all about, so you should make sure that people are not choked, that they do not work in cramps, especially when it comes to entrepreneurs and craftsmen who have no intention of sifting, stealing, and not reporting taxes. Unfortunately, it usually dominates the season. We've seen amazing scenes, so I've even personally witnessed in situations where people have closed the bars literally because of a few dozen or 50 kuna surpluses in the register. And when you see these ways in which the alleged offenders are caught, you actually have to do the chess. It's as if people have a default you have to charge 210 fines that day and then until you do it, you're not free. So on that side we have to take care of... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130792	I thank my colleague Maras. Next debate, respected colleague Branko Juričev Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130793	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, dear Secretary of State, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So today, when we talk about tourist inspectors, according to the Proposal for a Law amending the laws on catering activity and the Law amending the Law on the provision of catering services, services, tourist services in tourism. I would like to join those colleagues who say this is very good, that tourist inspectors are finally together with all the other inspectors under the State Inspectorate's cap and that this will contribute not only to the quality of their work services but also to the overall quality of services in catering and tourism. What is particularly important and what will certainly be the greatest joy of our citizens, small tenants and thus small craftsmen make these laws, i.e. the promoter of the Ministry of Tourism and the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the first time predict that the tourist inspector does not have to punish immediately when entering the facility and when determining a certain irregularity or deficiency. Especially if we know that there are shortcomings and irregularities relating to a legal provision that will not bring any financial benefit to our renter, or craftsman, or thereby deny something to the state budget and, of course, does not refer to a provision that could endanger the life or health of a citizen or guest. So this is good to point out and know our citizens, renters and craftsmen as well. And also once again, to this speaker, to appeal that as much as possible, tourist inspectors are using to monitor. The tourist year 2018 was the year we ended up with plus, or overnight even 4% higher than in 2017, 7% higher arrivals. However, it should not be forgotten that this figure was particularly high and greater than the average they had just catering services in the household or our small tenants. They have an increase of 10% when it comes to arrivals and 6% overnight stays. In 2019, the year in which we have already stepped up and is being prepared is much more demanding especially in the Mediterranean when we know that both Greece and Turkey have already been imposed with their package arrangements with extremely favourable prices. On the other hand, we also have a problem with the lack of labour force, and we need to be very careful that in 2019 there is no year in which we can record or lower increase in the number of nights and arrivals or even not stay at the level not to say anything worse. Since I come from Sibenik-Knin County, I must warn of problems in the field, I would say, no matter how much the Ministry of Tourism does, but because of a provision in the Law in the catering activity, our small tenants cannot register seasonally. Namely, the craft can be registered seasonally until the provision of services in the household cannot be as such registered seasonal and our owners have a solution to provide catering services in the household, meaning any rooms or apartments for the whole year, this solution is the basis for the calculation between the other and the transportation and disposal of waste. In the area of the city of Sibenik here is for your information during February 380 solutions have been cancelled, very much. With that number, I'm afraid they won't all report it in May, June and this year. In view of the fact that this activity or provision of this service does not appear to be carried out seasonally, they receive higher export and disposal prices throughout the year. For these reasons they have decided to log out their solution, say they will all repeat it again before the season, I don't think that a certain number will give so much effort that every year before the summer reports, all these people will surely rent their capacities have their permanent guests buking or already in what way they do it. All these guests could be admitted, a service was provided on black and, of course, that we will reduce all this and the number of arrivals and number of overnight stays and private accommodation not only in the Sibenik-Knin County area, but I am afraid that these numbers and such problems are in other counties and in other numerous urban and suburban areas, especially suburban settlements, I must mention that the weekend settlements have particular problems. Another line when we talk about renting and providing services throughout the year when we categorize an apartment or room. It doesn't matter if we give her three stars, and she doesn't have any heating, and that's how we approve of providing services all year round. I think there's been some kind of failure or failure because, at the time, the law had a provision, that a solution should have been made to which period a certain service was provided. And then it was known if the apartment that can and does the whole has to have the heating and I don't know everything else it takes in the winter months. Now in this last, last draft of the law, it's out, it's still supported, it's still a flat-rate tax bill, and thus a cut and a residence tax, it's not disputed, it's okay to keep it for the whole year. However, we have, for example, the Labour Act, we have a category of permanent season, and now how to formulate it is on the ministry, but here, please, I appeal because there will certainly be problems and there will certainly be a far smaller number of renters in the course of 2019 compared to '18. Only because of this problem of waste disposal. So nothing happened by the Ministry of Tourism, or you, but a simple problem on the ground will lead to cancellation, so here's an appeal to the tourism ministry to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130794	I thank my esteemed colleague, Branko Juričev-Martinchev. We have replicas, dear colleague Gordan Maras, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130795	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinchev, you said in your discussion, you mentioned people who rent meaning rooms, apartments, I'm interested in what your position on the topic is now current, and that is possible for local self-government units to determine much larger amounts of flat income tax per bed, which so far was 300 kuna. So it's released on, at the will of local self-government units, which can increase it multiplely, and I wonder if it's in terms of, I'd say increasing the competitiveness or stimulating people to do this job and invest in that job when we charge them two to three times as much with income tax paid on the bed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130796	Thank you, colleague Juričev-Martinchev's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130797	Thank you very much, colleague Maras. I think that's very good. Everyone's saying it can be increased, and you forgot it can be reduced. So the city council or municipal council can decide to make it 150 kunas far less than it's ever been before. So if it's the community's income or the city's, then it's okay for that community or city to determine how much it's going to burden its citizens. So the numerous cities and municipalities that made the decision could go to this minimum price, the minimum amount of 150 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130798	I thank you for your response to my esteemed colleague, Juričev-Martinchev. Next replica, dear colleague Ivica Misic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130799	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Martincevic, entrepreneurs and caterers are no longer a problem of inspection, the inspection should, of course, be and should be protected by certain people in fact not actually protect but punish those who do not work under the law. But what's the problem, the problem is for the caterers of the workers, we have to ask who will work, how to get to the employees, how to get to a good waiter, a good cook, a good master who will maintain machinery in tourism, and so on land. This is one problem that all of us entrepreneurs feel and what is the biggest problem right now in Croatia. All inspections have existed before today, but the problem of workers and maintenance is probably the biggest problem on the Adriatic, as well as in the continent.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130800	Thank you, colleague Juričev-Martinchev, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130801	Thank you very much, my colleague Misic, in my debate, I have also presented a major problem and that this will also be the season of 2019, but what needs to be specifically discussed here are small craftsmen who certainly cannot allow what large companies can do. Large companies, we have already read, some have provided both accommodation and food, given far higher incomes, received them into a working relationship as a floor, as permanent seasons. They can work on education, however, a small craftsman cannot deal with this problem and they are indeed here as we already see and the figures show that the number of employees and employees in small craftsmen and independent activities is in decline.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130802	I thank my colleague Juričev Martinchev for his reply. Final word on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130803	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Glava, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm just expecting in these 30 minutes on behalf of the club to get answers how many more renters in the Republic of Croatia don't know what their taxes will be. Do you have that information? Because a lot of people don't know, I'm in touch with people every day, there's been legal chaos in the law that was passed by the Income Tax Act, and that's what I said, and that's one of the bigger problems, it's a direct blow to the tenants because all the local self-governments that didn't bring up to 31.1. means how much will be the rental breaker will be 750 kuna. Which means it's where 150 kunas are now going to be picked up five times. So wherever the possibility of not making that decision or not functioning, the city council or the mayor has not proposed that decision. And we don't have that data, we're interested in how many more renters in the Republic of Croatia don't know what their monthly tax will be. So that you can inform them, unless the local self-government has brought in that it will be 750 kuna. Do you have the number of units of local self-government and the number of tenants in those areas where that decision has not been made so that you can inform people that based on the Income Tax Act that was adopted at the 11th month here, I was giving the amendment, to tell them that it is 750 kuna... You've made legal chaos towards those who are spines, these are small tenants, pensioners and half-boarders, and you've forbidden people the ability to bake their own builds, build hearts to their guests, to please large hotelers, so that they don't, for example. could be in the Imot region, where is my colleague Bačić or in my Sinjsko region that if he doesn't, he has to go to hotels down to the coast and not use in our Zagora the possibility that our renters can, it's against the law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's illegal. You've put signs in danger, you've also endangered domestic production that could develop along tourism and on the continental part, and you've enjoyed meaning small, great meanings to hotels and large catering houses, and this is one huge blow to all people. And I'm really going to do it again, so you explain what you've done if it's not true, except the good money goes to the PR. I'm not going to open that I'm not advertising, but I can see the minister jumping out of everyone, look, I'll tell you mostly, send the minister, tell him he's a good PR, just tell him how much he's investing in this. So you've got those who 60% of our capacities... tourism? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They have been given the means to collect tourist tax from this government, they have received from this government a ban on providing pension and half board services, a ban on providing pension and half-board services so that they can provide food. So no more like I say all the time building for our guests, and that's not allowed. The government has publicly accused the tenants of unfair competition with large catering and hotel houses, which is why they cannot give food because they are like small renters who are spines they are great competition. And I was talking about the flat tax all the time and I was talking about the anti-law that I gave, the anti-constitutional law, and I gave it to a bail-out of constitutionality right after the adoption, and I also gave the rushes on three occasions to the Constitutional Court to stop this pressure on the tenants and this chaos that Minister Maric legally made in income tax. Because indeed, I will repeat another sentence that I have said and in the opening statement on behalf of the club, we no longer need flossules, Croatia full of life, just don't know what life, so I ask you if this is the way of life, because as far as tourism is concerned after you, it will remain as I said mushrooms, amoebes and wolves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130804	I thank my esteemed colleague, Bull. On behalf of the motionary State Secretary Mr. Tonchi Glava. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130805	Thank you very much, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives. So here, in the final presentation, we have to mention some things here that need to be fixed and corrected. We are again told in this, in the presentation of a large number of MPs the views and topics that are not the subject of this law, so they are not the subject of these laws, are not the subject of these amendments. As we presented in the opening presentation, we are talking about technical changes and adaptation of these two tourism laws to the new State Inspectorate Act. However, there was an opportunity to open some other topics. So here's what's really important is that we explain some things in the context of these two laws that were passed today so that we don't confuse our public and we don't have to worry about accurate information. As a matter of fact, you even mentioned the Law on Renters, the Law on Tax on Renters and the like, it's a basic ignorance of matter and we're talking about something that we don't call a real name and we don't fit into the right category. So we're talking, if we're talking about taxation of private tenants, we're talking about the Income Tax Act, which you know very well that it's not in the Ministry of Tourism's jurisdiction but only in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, so we're talking about another Income Tax Act again. But also in this law that is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, one thing has been done and one thing we are very proud of, one thing that we also weigh at the level of tourism legislation, which is decentralisation. Why is decentralisation good and why do we feel that it is necessary to implement it concretely and why is tourism ready for decentralisation? Because in the new reconstruction and new legislation and the new way that we want to manage Croatian tourism and systematic tourist communities, we want to create competitive destinations, we want to develop destination management and we want to offer our destinations the opportunity not only to manage marketing and branding their destination, but to have a significant share in making all decisions on their destination and thus to offer them more concrete and better to present themselves in the world, so that when we go out to the outside markets, we do not only talk about one brand of Croatia as a single destination, but that within that brand we strengthen our brand of our own, therefore, individual destinations, and they will achieve this power if they have more and more tools to achieve it and which is even more important to have more resources because in the law model we are talking about significant decentralisation of decisions and obligations, but also about significant decentraling of funds. And specifically if we're talking about the case of income tax, the flat-rate, as the distinguished representative has already mentioned earlier, so we're talking about the minimum and the maximum, we're talking about the minimum and the maximum and we're talking about, so 150 to 1.500,00 kn. So, it's very important to point out, and if you look at the information available to you now, therefore, from the means of public reporting in the last few months, you'll see that in the vast majority of our destinations, so this share of income tax paid by the tenants has not grown, it has remained roughly the same and in some smaller environments has grown, but in a large number of cases it's even reduced, so that it's very good, but what's very good in the whole story is that we allow them, therefore, destinations themselves, cities and municipalities themselves decide how much of a certain type of accommodation they want to have, and if it's their 100% income or overall income at the level of the city and the county, then it's very logical and natural that they decide and how much of that amount, so I think it's very good that we're talking about it, and it's very good that we're going to be able to sell all the same experience in the same year, and then, so it'll be able to pay for all of time, and then to pay for all of time, the time, and time. Therefore, this decentralization is very important, but in addition to this decentralisation programme itself, you have mentioned specifically that you are questioning private owners and their number and programs, so here you can refer to the micro creditation of private accommodation that we are doing today, so in cooperation with HABOR and business banks where for the first time our private owners have micro-credit programmes in which they have very competitive, therefore, conditions, in which they have one year of starting and these funds will be used and must be used for the purpose of raising quality, and in any case, a programme that is very clearly focused in any direction, but that all of us are in agreement with the greater value of the market, so that we are able to offer the necessary quality of accommodation. Also, here is the competition for the competitiveness of the tourism economy, so it is one fund of 25 million kuna that the Ministry of Tourism has spent for many years, and in this package, among other things, a special measure has been made for the OPGs. So we're talking about family farms dealing with tourism, we're just talking about those areas that are mentioned here today in your presentations, so we're talking about those who can apply to very, very clear and concrete measures of the ministry, grants precisely for raising quality and raising all those services that are mentioned here today, so very clear programmes for private renters, very clear programmes for family farms that are currently being implemented. Furthermore, as far as the law itself is concerned, one and the other that we are discussing today, therefore, and the conduct of our inspector. So, about 6 months ago, we were here at HS, and we presented the amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act where we introduced a big newspaper, and it is about the behavior of our tourist inspectors, and we are talking about the principle of portitaries. And that principle of the portit says that when our inspectors come into their supervision they must act in principle, therefore, warning and consulting our service providers. So, if we talk about minor crimes and minor offences, we can't punish them, we can't charge the fines, but they're obliged to warn and give the appropriate period to the caterer, therefore, to the catering service provider or tourist services, the appropriate time to correct and meet these shortcomings and accordingly, so only if these shortcomings and minor offences are not corrected, then in this case there is punishment, and here is the statistics that the representative Kleman has presented here today in his presentation, you can see that in the statistics of 2018. More than 80% of all, therefore, inspection controls were not punishable and there were no infringements of more than 80%, so somewhere around 19% of the cases were punishment, which again goes very clearly, and indicates that our inspectors at the most are also acting in the advisory role and the role of someone who aims to improve and raise the quality of catering services, not necessarily that the aim of punishment and this opportunity as such was also introduced into the State Inspectorate Act, so not only the tourism inspection, not just the hospitality, catering activity and tourism activity, but all that is covered, therefore, supervision, the Law on State Inspectorate, will just go according to that principle, the principle of opportunists. And so let it be perfectly clear that this ministry and this government in entrepreneurship and the economy see their partners. And these are one fundamental change in the way we behave in this direction where we send very clear signals that we want these bodies to be a partner, to be an advisory service, to help us, to be a quality service, to aim at raising quality and standards rather than just punishing us. And in that part, that opportunity is very important to us. So I pray not only that this information needs to be repeated and repeated and repeated so that our service providers know exactly what their rights are and what to expect. And here's to the behavior of our inspectors over the past year, it's just the best in itself and it says it. As for continental tourism and the comments we have had on both issues, i.e. questions and questions on continental tourism, you are aware that we are currently implementing a full reform of the tourism system and in this reform continental tourism, rural tourism, so the rural area and the continent play a significant role and that they are approaching in a completely different way and will be the major winners of these overall changes that are taking place. But in addition to the part that we've been carrying out through legislation itself, we've already made some concrete measures on the continent for the past year and a half, which are already very clear, we have activities planned for this year. And if you take the example of Slavonia, which goes, so 5 Slavonia Countys, so Slavonia, as branding Slavonia as a tourist destination, therefore co-financed by HTZ, Ministry of Tourism, into one positioning of Slavonia as a unique tourist region and precisely because of their united way of action which is otherwise the foundation of these future laws which will soon be here, precisely significant financial means for such a performance. In addition to that part in the changes, we are talking about the tourist tax and we are talking about the tourist membership of a significant new income due to the different distribution of the method of coefficients and so on. So new revenues, we are talking about a significant increase in the original incomes themselves on the continent, so also in rural areas. And so what has already been announced, which you are very well acquainted with, is that Slavonia will host the day of Croatian tourism this year which will be one event that will last longer than otherwise in which, apart from the presentations of Slavonia within Croatia and the way we always present the days of Croatian tourism, we will have one significant, significant campaign with foreign media, foreign journalists who will be present there, who will also experience this Slavonia not only as a good tourist destination for special forms of tourism but as an excellent tourist destination, among other things for all forms of tourism. And it's something that's happening right now and it's something that's happening this year. And also related to this issue of co-financing of EU programmes and projects, so in this new, amendment of the tourism laws package, we have put one new option in the Tourist Tax Act, which is that, therefore, outside of the regular tasks, one specific percentage of the budget will be used as part of their co-financing of projects made at EU funds level. So that's one big newspaper we're introducing. And since these laws come into force, all those who are doing projects have written projects, and that is the goal, so the goal is to increase the total revenue and the goal is to significantly return those revenues back to the system will also have this Fund for Co-financing of EU projects. Furthermore, as far as I'm concerned, I have to answer here, and I'm sorry what colleagues and distinguished IDS representatives are not present, because it is also mentioned here and the Tourism Land Act in the context of this regulation legislative. So one more time to repeat that the tourism ministry and this government changed five laws in less than two years... In the process of amending 5 laws, therefore, from the jurisdiction of tourism and one additional law which is not directly in our jurisdiction but within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of State Property is the 6th law, hence the Law on Tourism Land or Unbuilt Building Land. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I have to say that I'm disappointed with my colleagues' comments because they had the whole mandate, their government had the whole mandate, they had their minister when they could change any text of the law and change including the Law on State Property, the Law on Tourism Land, so they didn't, so here we are now. This law will be, therefore, the law is in the announcement of legislative activities and will be passed in the term of this government along with a whole package of these tourist laws and it is the best and most concrete answer that we do, how we do and how we do. And on the tax policy in tourism that we have also had here comments and certain proposals, I will only mention that this government and this ministry are working very actively on tourism policy and at the level of the government of the Republic of Croatia in three rounds of tax reform, this government has charged the economy with 6.3 billion kuna with further changes, and this is one systematic, concrete, very clear approach to tax policy, this is something that this government has done, no one else has done. And this government will be the first government to lower the VAT general rate in line with the announcements made. And of course, this whole tax policy, which has, of course, the most impact on the tourism sector, will have great benefits because Croatian tourism is the most competitive or one of the most competitive business activities in the Croatian economy, so it grows at rates above the average of Europe and the Mediterranean not only under arrivals and nights but also incomes. And these are data that are not our interpretation but data that are recognized. As recognised by the European Commission, it was announced yesterday that the Croatian government has taken significant steps in structural reforms. Accordingly, I thank everyone for your comments, thank you for the suggestions we will consider. The question of seasons, of pausers and seasonal crafts and hopefully, and I look forward to a future debate on these topics and packages of tourism laws that are coming soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130806	I thank the esteemed Secretary of State, Glava. Replica, dear fellow Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130807	Secretary Glavina, we know that this alignment of the Law with Lex Andrija Mikulić, with these, with the inspectorate and it is well known, we do not want to discuss it, but you say that I do not know that this was the Law on Income Tax for Renters, so I went to the Constitutional Court on that same day, where experts were asked by the tenant to write, did I give an assessment of the constitutionality of this Income Tax Act. But of course, you're the smartest, you're, I've given an amendment that's not accepted, but you haven't answered the key question, you, the government that collected tourist fees, which banned the provision of services to pensioners and half boards so that they could cook, feed, no more towns, that's the old story you didn't even mention. The government, so you accused the tenants of doing damage to large corporations, you didn't answer a single question, and how many tenants now don't know what their tax is, how much local self-government didn't make the decision, that's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130808	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. Secretary of State General's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130809	So, these thesis and findings that you have just stated, they simply don't stand, and again and in all of ours, not only of the public performances, but of all our programmes that we are implementing, here I specifically state the two programmes that I have mentioned to you before, so we very clearly give evidence that this part and this segment of the tourist offer are very, very important, very important, and that we are working very hard on it. As to how much tax they have, be assured that private tenants who are only one part of their important part of their functioning know very well what decisions their municipal and city councils make, because that decision is on their city and municipal councils, so, not on anyone else. So, they know very well how well it is, and they participate very well, don't forget that private renters participate in tourist councils in all tourist resorts, given that the law is so made, and the model, participate and they are an integral part of those decisions they make, an integral part of the decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130810	Thank you, fellow Chief, for your response. With this, we've exhausted all the debates, I'm closing the debate. I would like to thank the State Secretary of the Ministry of Tourism, Mr Tonchi Glavina and the assistants of Minister of Tourism, Monika Udovic, for the reasons and answers. We'll vote on these points when the conditions are met. Once again, I remind you of the e-mail you have all received in your boxes, that the work at the session of the Assembly on Friday and tomorrow will take place on the following schedule: at 9.30 we will begin with a statement on the amendments, at 11.00 hours there will be a vote, after the vote will be the presentation of the position of the Club's representatives free speeches, after the free speeches we will discuss the announced agenda points and this Annual Report of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment for 2017, and the proposal for the Law amending the Foreign Affairs Act, P.Z. Number 355. I thank you and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day. SESSION Interrupted at 16:08 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-02-28-0.u130811	Final proposal for a law amending the Law on hospitality, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 571, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft law amending the Household Activity Act. Please, let's vote. I find that most votes, 81 for, 23 abstentions and 10 against the Law on Amendments to the Household Activity Act.
