ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148006	Now it will be an independent representative's position,... You will now say, you will now say if it does not say worse, Mr. Ivan Pernar. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And you'll say what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148007	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there is an old folk saying that lies with short legs. So we can say today that the lies of Prime Minister Plenkovic and Butkovic and all his hips are short legs, and here's why. Because Plenkovic assured us here, together with all his ministers, that he would not collect the price of gas or that citizens would not pay the price of building or maintaining an invaluable LNG terminal. However, as you all know, they will eventually pay, and why? Because insufficiently purchased capacities are of insufficient interest to LNG gas which should come through the Omis and therefore introduces a new imposition into the Republic of Croatia and a new impact on the standard of citizens, this time at 35 kuna per year. Of course, it is clear to all of you that this impose is being introduced exclusively in order to maintain a terminal that is not cost-effective, i.e. our country acts against market logic and classical capitalist principles, but is already guided by the socialist concept of keeping losers alive and on the burden of Croatian citizens. This LNG terminal project is a classic loser project. And the reason why we got into this losing job is no less than serving America, or Brussels and Washington. These two powers we have chosen to serve require us to act against our own interests, or to buy more expensive gas. I told Plenkovic a long time ago that this gas is more expensive, LNG than the one that is pipeline, but it is free to speak deafly and to show blindly, and so this time I appeal to the Croatian people to realize that the government that is puppetically by its nature, that is, cannot manage the state in the interests of its citizens, but only manages for the benefit of foreign entities, i.e. in favour of the forces that have mastered our space. I call on the Croatian people to resist the service policy, i.e. to refuse to pay for the missile the foreign force imposes on us, which the puppet government obediently executes. The price of 35 kn is not great, but it is only one in a long series of shocks to the standard and a much worse blow that our western friends have made to us is the conversion of the central bank into a exchange shop and in fact the massacre of the state with external debt, which will eventually completely paralyze the Croatian economy, society, or people at one point. By agreeing to serve other people's interests, instead of our own or doing other people's will instead of our own, we are making or making a historical mistake from which we will not benefit ourselves, but only damage. Unfortunately, as I said, the puppet government is not interested, and that is why I call on our citizens to support in the elections the only candidate for president who speaks of the country's external governance problem and that the puppet government does not serve the interests of its own people but foreign entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148008	Now it is up to him to make the stand of a respected colleague, Ivan Pernar, as an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148009	Dear ladies and gentlemen, if your child gets sick of the vaccine, or gets some side effect nasty, serious or even dies, you don't have the right to compensation. That's the law of Croatia. While there is, for example, a special court in America dealing with vaccine side effects and paying a number of damages. So far, over $3 billion has been paid through that court. However, in Croatia if you get sick of cattle, it means if your cow, goat or sheep dies or gives less milk, whatever it is, you have the right to compensation if the condition means the animal is caused by the vaccine. The question now arises why the legislator admits damage, or pays compensation for the damage done to domestic animals, and if the damage happens to people, then it does not. Is it possible that this government, as the previous one, is worth a cow's life more than one man's? According to only this banal example, yes. I would also like to warn of frequent practice, which is that side effects are marginalised. So it's said that the child was screaming or that the child had a very high temperature of 39, 40 degrees more days than that, it doesn't matter, it doesn't even make sense to report it. On the other hand, severe side effects are often denied. If, for example, your child develops a very high temperature after the vaccine starts to scream, and shortly thereafter experience an epileptic attack or, say, stop breathing has an episode of apnoea will tell healthcare professionals that it is a mere case. Also, if your child is vaccinated and stops talking shortly afterwards, and until then, say, mother, dad, grandmother, waved hands, responded when called out, etc., and after being vaccinated, it stopped, or developed classic symptoms of autism, the same health professionals will tell you no, no, maybe even autism or diagnosed will be later but certainly not from vaccines. Like why the child stopped talking, we don't know. I also have to say that there are numerous conditions such as arthritis that are even recognized as vaccine side effects. But other than, of course, arthritis you have hashimoto disease it's autoimmune thyroid disease. You have a lot of children who develop diabetes immediately after vaccination. However, the system is usually a side effect or autoimmune disease that develops immediately after vaccination. However, certain side effects are impossible to deny because their occurrence is timed so quickly or as I would say happens immediately after vaccination from one old and on the other hand are very obvious to its symptoms. For example. The vaccineers come to school to vaccinate children, one child is vaccinated and very quickly, so within a few hours or in one day it remains actually paralyzed, immobilized. And in such cases, they can't dispute the side effect until, say, if a child develops arthritis, even if it's listed in the vaccine side effects that it's possible they'll say no, but look what happened to the type a few months after the vaccination, we can't now admit it. However, or e.g. you have in the case of Alma Demirovic, her child's hair fell off after the vaccination, a very nasty thing to my people. But unlike all these diseases, or autoimmune diseases that the system denies, as I have mentioned some like paralysis immediately after vaccination cannot be denied, however, even in such cases no compensation is paid. And how much of this has taken hold of you is the fact that we have fewer side effects than is mentioned in the package leaflets, i.e. the vaccine, which means that the system does not systematically recognise them, or banalise them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148010	The next one will be an independent representative of Pernar, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148011	Dear ladies and gentlemen, there are not many of you here, unfortunately, but I will warn you that my 12.11. trial begins or my first hearing is scheduled in the case of graphics in which the DORH charges me that I have written a political parole on the building in the Sesvets. I would like to say that this case itself is a tragic team more than the EU countries condemn if, for example, a political graphist were processed in Belarus, then the EU claims it is a political repression. However, when a parliamentary representative is tried in the Republic of Croatia for political graffiti, they see it not as political repression, but as the rule of law, and it is the same DORH that was led in a disastrous way. You had a case that recently dropped the indictment against tycoon Miroslava Kutla for the withdrawal of money from Diona, footballer Luka Modrić for giving false testimony, directors of HAC and highways Rijeka-Zagreb Marija Crnjak, Jurica Prskala, Josip Sapunar and Zlatko Korpar for the extraction of money, then for abuse of position and war profiteering against Ante Marijan, Ivan Radosevic, Tomislav Dragun and Lovorko Dragun Mirković from the case of Croatia bus, the court also rejected DORH's thesis on Djura Gavrilović and Ivan Radošević for war profiting, dropped the application of DORH and for, and against Taxi Came for tax evasion, against Željko Bulat from the National Park of Krk due to the receipt of the myth, against Slavin Žalovjevožjevljevića Žirica and the owner of the town of the town of the town of the town of Croatia, the town of the town of Croatia, the town of Croatia, the town of Croatia. I must point out that the public is also aware of the case of Zeljka Pokupec, who was removed from the main place of the County State Attorney's Office in Zagreb, at the request of Dinko Cvitan, because of the failure and irregularities in the work which resulted in a lack of indictment which was subsequently withdrawn or dropped, according to Dinko Cvitan, it is not me, and it is also known that the recently arrested deputy of Zagreb's Municipal State Attorney Ferhat Chančar against whom the USKOK is leading the investigation on suspicion that in exchange for bribery he gave up, he has dropped the indictment against Tomislav Sablje for the criminal part of the threat. The daily HR says it's in June 2005. The chancar had a strong response before the State Attorney's Council because of "the irregular conduct of the case in 7 cases leading to 6 statutes". He says Dnevno that Chanchar admitted before the council that he had not taken the necessary actions or had not taken them within the legal time limit. I'm asking the question is it possible that the allegations of the Daily Truth are true, and if they are by any chance, how is it possible that Chanchar continued to work at the DORH? All in all, the DORH in my court represents an institution or body that protects crime, the DORH represents a body that always requires in those key investigations, always in those cases where decisions were long ago to be made, they were never made or when they were already being made, and, of course, what to say, here's the Kalmeta case, here's how long they've been running this procedure for 10 years. They were unable to complete it or complete it by acquittal, so I ask on what grounds the DORH had in the first place and made a decision to judge this man if the evidence was not as the court considers. So, or, on the other hand, if the evidence was, where are these evidences, why haven't they been presented? I believe that a major shift should be made in the DORH and that, instead of writing graphite, DORH should be dealt with in more serious cases for the existence of the daily life of the Croatian people. Unfortunately, the DORH does not deal with this and, by my judgment, the DORH has become a threat to the survival of the rule of law or perhaps it is a wrong word because the rule of law does not exist, it is better to say one of the tools that prevents the Croatian rule of law from being created, so unfortunately, I am not satisfied with the work of the DORH. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148012	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148013	It is now time to present the position of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats and to speak to Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Miranda.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148014	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Millions of kunas were spent on a promotional campaign that the Minister of Labour at the time assured the citizens that if union demands are not accepted, I quote, a union referendum will result in a reduction in pensions or in the borrowing of our children. That's what Pavić said before the summer. Today Pavić is silent. Today, the government has accepted initiative 67 is too much, and Pavic told Jutarnji List on 26 March this year, I quote, this initiative is dangerous for destabilising the pension system. What was destabilizing in the March initiative, and today in the government it is no longer destabilising and the government has decided to accept all union demands? Today's move by the government is proof that Pavic knowingly deceived the citizens, but not only did he knowingly deceive the citizens, it often works, for the sake of these 20 and more years, it's nothing weird, but he spent our money, he spent the money we're paying in the budget, financing a campaign that tried to prove to the citizens that if we didn't save 40 billion, that our pensions would fail. Right now in the media, the statement by Minister Maric, who says the 67 initiative is too much, will not lead to the destabilising of the system and the inability to pay off the pension. Millions of kunas were thrown into the wind, we could build kindergartens for it, we could arrange schools, and it was only to save Plenkovic's face and Pavic's face from the Brussels Commission. I expect Pavic to resign by the end of the day because the government today confirmed that initiative 67 is not dangerous and is not destabilising the pension system. I am also asking Minister Aladrovic, who seconded Minister Pavic and held him a candle which also deceived the public, why he then raised his hand to the government today for a proposal to accept 67, initiative 67 is too much. If the unions, if the union's demands were destabilising, not long ago, as he claimed, which is today which is no longer destabilising because apparently Minister Aladrovic is more important chair minister than cheek. And my message to Plenkovic, while I was a minister, with the unions I reached an agreement on working at 67, and you lifted it, moved the deadline to early departure only to reach the bureaucrats in Brussels. It's your policy, and against that policy the people have risen with 700 thousand signatures. In the biggest crisis of 2011, we defrosted pensions that froze HDZ. We didn't cut them down, we had social dialogue. It is your fault that Pavić and Aladrović and Plenkovic spent a million euros on a campaign that was completely unnecessary. The peace system will collapse, but not because of leaving at 67 or 65 years of age, but it will collapse because of privileged pensions, due to the awakening of defence pensions that we have more and more every day in the system, but obviously you do not have the courage to touch the nest of privileged pensions in Croatia. We did it in 2014, and by coming to power you shut down and you wanted to compensate it for 67 is too much and now you've got what you got. I call on the trade unions to insist on holding a referendum, once the HDZ has deceived them about the signing of a referendum on the Labour Act, and I am not sure that this government will meet because this is not a credible government but an untrustworthy government and I am not sure that it will fulfill what Plenkovic said today because it can be sent to the procedure within two days. That is why I call on the unions to persist, to take the citizens to the referendum and show what they think of this incompetent government of Andrej Plenkovic, the most incompetent minister of independence of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148015	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148016	Thank you, dear Vice President. The topic I would like to talk about, and through the study of agricultural land in Croatia, the data we encountered in HSS is devastating and I would like to inform the public about this topic but also to appeal to the ruling to take some steps to address this problem. As for the state agricultural land and the private property in the Land Management Strategy whose author was Racan's government when HSS held the Ministry of Agriculture, it is said that 3.187.000 hectares of state, general agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia, of which about 22,000 were owned by both a million and 100 and something state-owned. It was done on the basis of the 1999 Statistics Institute data. In 2016, we have a situation where the Agency for Agricultural Land in the Republic of Croatia states that there are 2,700,000 hectares of agricultural land, of which 738,000 unprocessed, is processed 1,100,000 hectares, and simply 850,000 hectares are gone, not going anywhere. What did it matter? It is important to say that the amounts from rural development funds are much smaller than they should have to have that all areas are in the function of agricultural production, which is the difference of around EUR 2 to 3 billion for this period, which makes up about 5% to 6% of GDP increases. You see, over several years, how important data is changing as if someone were moving that land out of the Republic of Croatia, it disappears, as if someone occupied us, so they took this land, but obviously there's some problem hiding agricultural land and putting it out of agricultural production because it's obviously keeping that area for someone or for something I don't know what. Here's an offer of these differences that I've seen, and when you're working on this topic, there's a lot more of these irregularities that I've referred to the Ministry of Agriculture in which I've been looking for an answer to how many over the past year, and how many years have the area of agricultural land been translated into forest or construction land? And what shocked me shocked me was the answer. The Ministry of Agriculture signed it by a new minister although it is obviously not responsible for this data, the Ministry of Agriculture tells me that in 2018 it was re-purposed from agricultural to non-agricultural purposes 2,716 hectares. It's about 10% of the area that Agrokor used to do, so it's a huge amount in one year, and what's even more shocking is that the ministry has no data for the past 15 years as far as land has been re-routed from unethical, from agricultural to non-agricultural. Not only the Ministry of Agriculture but also manages state administrations by county. How's our administration doing? This is proof that obviously no one does their job properly. Agricultural land in the Republic of Croatia is a strategic resource for food production, but also for preserving drinking water which is stored in lower layers. He says that only women and countries give birth, but unfortunately this state and HDZ authorities are destroying both resources. Agricultural land disappears for agricultural production, also young women leave the Republic of Croatia to live and work and will probably never return to the Republic of Croatia again. Dear gentlemen, dear citizens, let's imagine this information and let's move because this way we won't have anywhere to produce food, and we'll be left without new generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148017	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148018	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues today I will speak in, on one of the three roof laws of the Ministry of Regional Development or of the doing of the Ministry of Regional Development and of absolute dissatisfaction, and that is exactly what I am going to say today and call on the Secretary-General and ask why it is so before the Regional Development Day which should be held next week in Sibenik. In fact, just a year ago in this assembly we discussed a roof law that creates and sucreates the life of 200,000 inhabitants in the mountainous and mountainous region of Croatia. It affects the life of Dalmatian Zagora, Gorsko kotar, part of Croatian Zagorje. Through the whole law, the whole law defined two concepts that would be extremely important and important for the economy in that area and for the inhabitants of that area. The laws of the mountain card have been defined, the concept of mountain card and mountain product defined. The law clearly states that six months from the day of entry into force, and the law has entered into force since 1.1., rules should be adopted that should regulate absolutely all these concepts to make life easier for our residents, but also for our owners in the mountainous and mountainous areas of Croatia. But is that so? Absolutely not. It's been over nine months, we're going in ten months, nothing's been done. Not that it didn't work out, we don't have any drafts of those regulations, so the question is, what are people at the Ministry of Regional Development doing at all? In particular, the question arises if we see the Law on Islands where we now see certain islands problems with drinking water supply. The law on assisted areas where we see that there are no certain shifts towards these areas that are experiencing demographic breakdowns. Indeed, the question arises as to what a number of officials are doing in the offices of the roof ministry, which should talk about the regional unity of Croatia, i.e. a standard of living as well as an urban area of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, Osijek or the like for the inhabitants of the area of the exactly mountainous area of Croatia. I really don't understand that here we are entering the last year of this government's mandate, all of us are full of mouths and Gorski Kotar and Dalmatian Burns, and everyone is expressing regret for this space, coming to many events that are being organised, and we weren't prepared to pass one system law that would make life easier in this area. Not that we weren't ready to pass reform law, we passed a law just to be passed, and that's what we out of opposition and stressed great drawbacks. But this dissatisfaction really fascinates me that six months someone in the ministry doesn't need to pass the rules, and in those terms that were as if for the Minister of Crucial Matter at the time, for the mountain-mounted area of Croatia. 200 thousand people live in the area. So it's not about one city and one municipality, one part of Croatia about 200 thousand people. Six months we can't, we can't, and we don't know how to bring in certain regulations. So if we're not able and they don't know how to go to Switzerland, let them go to Austria and write down everything that these countries have done for their mountain-mounted areas. And now we will come neatly to the Days of Regional Development in Sibenik where the prime minister will come completely, the resolution minister will come, all the other ministers will come and then we will talk again about the regional development of Croatia uniformly, the equal rights of all, and we are not able to adopt regulations within six months to define what a mountain card is, which is a Croatian mountain product, which benefits are given by residents, which the benefits of the economics have. And as we refer to the mountain-mounted area and the assisted area, we have seen now and by the example of Knin, Knin Hospital, the debts are over 15 million kunas. And these executions in terms of one million kuna are much larger, amounting to over 15 million kuna and finally let the public be told which and how much debt, who manages this hospital, who makes the administrative council of that hospital and who is guilty of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148019	Next, the next Club of Representatives is that HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Zeljko Lenart will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148020	Thank you, Vice President. I just don't know if you'll be seen from this smoke screen, but I'll try to be heard by people. All who attended the opening of the autumn fair, the Agricultural Fair at Gudovac, in the speech of the Minister of Agriculture, Marija Vukkovic, heard a promise to the agricultural producers that an advance for support will be paid by the end of October, as is usually the case at the end of the year. All agricultural producers have moved to this promise, some of their investments have adapted to that, but what is now coming from the field, they call daily and say that the ministry seems to have changed its attitude and that it will be only at the end of the 11th month, which of course disrupts the business of agricultural economies, especially family farms. How much do we find out that the European Commission's guideline is that, due to the difficult year and difficult business in 2019, an advance of up to 75% of the total choice for agricultural support can be paid. Therefore, here is the basis of our producers who asked to ask this question at the assembly to ask the minister and appeal to her to really be as she promised by the end of October. Her promise was also heard by all those who were at the opening, but were also conveyed by the media, and so it was written down what was promised and I hope it will be carried out that way. Here's what I want to encourage the Ministry of Agriculture if it's been thinking about not paying off in October, but somewhere later on to do what it promised. And in this part of the rest of the time, I would refer to Mr. Secretary of State Nekic and my colleague, Boric, who spoke of me yesterday, even though I was not present here, demeaning and saying that I don't understand something and I don't know. So there I was, dear gentlemen, because of my statement that Mayor Žinić hired his son as mayor in Glina, I deliberately told the gentlemen, if the gentlemen think I don't understand what it was about, I went through all levels of administration from the local council, as a regional councilman in the assembly, the headmaster, the mayor, the mayor, and to the state secretary and today the representative in the Croatian Parliament, and that the gentlemen know that I have passed the state expert exam from the administration and I know very well how the mayor is elected, and they also know that the mayor is elected by name, and that the mayors are coming in the package. Therefore, Mr. Zupan imposed his son on the mayor in the package and thus hired him because the town of Glina is the poorest city in Sisak-Moslavina County, there is the mayor, the mayor, and the city from which I come Kutina also has HDZ in power, but there is not a single mayor of professionals, although he is far richer than Gline and has a far greater budget. Well, here's another time when gentlemen want to compete let them do so when I'm here and we'll discuss knowledge and ignorance, and I think my statement hit them, saying that HDZ is afraid of losing power and that it's laying down the county administration, is strengthening with the offices of the state administration, because the offices of the state administration are in a certain part of the participants of the election process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148021	Okay, we're moving on. Next is counterpart Davor Vlaovic in front of the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats, please welcome fellow Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148022	Thank you very much, Vice President HS. My colleagues and colleagues, here's the impression that they just finished protesting the nurses, a few words about this topic because these days you've had a series of messages in the media, and what's ringing in your ears is that some of them have said and the health system is dead, 20 hospitals are done, the mayors are saying we don't have the money to resuscitate the hospitals, and here the nurses are going to be the morgues, and when you hear it all, you expect the government and the resolution ministry to react urgently, the messages they're sending to the public are no longer available, the money is no longer available, so the respected health ministers, respected members of the government of the Republic, can and must be increased because if a Romanian could raise salaries to their nurses for more than 50%, then we need to respect the demands of the nurses from the Republic of Croatia, and over 30,000 are looking for only a 25% increase in the basic salary, addition of employment and... A lot of information we got that over 12,000 were missing in the Republic of Croatia. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] If in one department in Petrovo one nurse is on 24 pregnant women, then it is 48 patients, is it possible to endure, I ask if it is possible to endure and rightly gather and protest here, and they wanted to silence them as they declare. So why not shut up and help them, raise their wages and ensure that we have available healthcare because if there are none of them who will give the patient the medicine, then they rest the entire health system, on them and doctors, if they are unhappy, if they are not there, then there is no health system. Yes, and can and must be more, and if the minister doesn't know then it's time to go and leave someone who knows and who can because if you could find 4.5 billion dollars for shipbuilding, if you could find 250 million for Croatia airlines, then you have to find for, for, for 30 000 nurses in the Republic of Croatia because tomorrow there will be even less. It is a terrible message from the transparency, 2020 and Austria abolishing the ban on the employment of foreigners, opening up a space for additional departure of nurses and other professions from the Republic of Croatia. If we as a state don't worry about it, if we don't respond on time, if we don't prevent such events, then there will be more protests, there will be more protests, here next week they announce protests both teachers and teachers, so why? Well, because they also have too little pay, and they want a new law on crafts to build a new future, a new chance for our children, then they can't be expected to have a teacher's salary as a beginner at 6,867,00 kn or at 10. Working internship 7.209,00 kn in Croatia. This cannot be expected from teachers to give themselves and to work with children, to perfect themselves, and there is no money to perfect it, but must be written by EU projects in order to give it some higher salary. So if he writes EU projects and works on the EU project then there's no time to deal with children, we're in college if we want children to gain knowledge and skills that they can enter colleges tomorrow because we see that there are over 11,000 available places left, then something's wrong. So also the rector Boras announces that he's thinking about abolishing the state's graduation, so who's the problem with State's graduation? It is the only test where all students and students have the same tests throughout the Republic and where both their work and the work of their teachers and professors can be evaluated. Who's that bothering? And apparently to some who want to enroll in colleges by birth certificate or by party card, let's cut state graduation and create power centers in Zagreb and some other centres, and the University can't, there's no money, there's no nurses, there's no teachers, there's no for the University of Brod, so what kind of society are we building? A society of equal opportunities, a society that will give young people a chance to work in the Republic of Croatia or a society that will emigrate, that will sit on Croatia's airports and leave the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148023	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148024	Now it's Mr. Zeljko Lenart's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148025	Thank you, dear Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, here I am today going to talk about a family abuse that enables Article 424 through paragraph 4. Family law. This article reads: On behalf of the child, the Centre for Social Care is obliged to initiate the procedure for restraint if the parent with whom the child resides does not exercise this right for unwarranted reasons for more than 3 months from the day of the child's birth. What does this article mean? It means that a person who is obliged to pay alimony unless three months consecutively paid for the alimony only then comes under the obligation of a social care centre to initiate proceedings against that person. Unfortunately, over the past three months, there has been a number of abuses of this article and avoidance of obligations, and with that, harassment. The abuse of a child, the parent with whom the child lives. Thus, Article 309 states that child restraint is always determined in monetary form. The abuses resulting from this article are the irregular payment of the amount determined by a court solution, meaning three months consecutively only sanctions, and many of the abstention payment bonds use it in a way that they pay one month in those three, to pay when they want to, not to pay the total amount determined by the court solution, to buy the child gifts to obtain the child, and then to the other parent with whom the child is resident as if they paid the alimony. So this law allows most of them to be. Some parents avenge their other partner through the look of this, that, through the lack of alimony or gift, they fight for the child’s affection and turn the child against another parent and a series of other options that occur here, and they suffer mostly mothers who are mostly concerned with the child’s child care, who often cannot find a job or work for lower paid jobs and are very important to them that part of the restraint that the other parent is obliged to pay. They struggle through life and through this problem very hard, they find it hard to raise that child in their lives because they have no help or do not regularly have the help of another parent who is obliged. And many of those who have sued for not paying another parent have been prosecuted for years and often until the age of a child who, in order not to resent that other parent, simply does not want to take that amount. The HSS will propose to amend the Family Law in this section where we will propose that after 30 days of non-execution i.e. from the beginning of the obligation that the social care centre is obliged to initiate proceedings against parents who do not fulfil their obligation i.e. does not pay the alimony i.e. doesn't pay child support. These three months consecutively from practice have shown that something is very suitable for manipulation. We do not know how the law - making person did not take care of it, knowing what family relationships were like after the divorce and what problems we face in this regard. It was not enough to take care of a child who suffered most often in all of this because of his difficulty in schooling and his life because his parent did not pay for his support. So here's my appeal when it comes to supporting all of you to help those parents who are being abused because their former partners don't want to pay for their child support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148026	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148027	And we are going to the last debate, the club of representatives of HSS and Democrats, respected counterpart Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148028	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here today we attended an act of government and HDZ on the withdrawal of laws in which it was tried to define that up to 68 years in Croatia, and apparently the Government realized that this is a path that is not good and that it is simply about working relationships and the working conditions themselves in Croatia. These laws will not lead to improvement, and the government here five minutes before the elections has withdrawn those laws, which speaks about how much the government is able to understand labour relations in Croatia because the prime minister deals with issues that are holidayed and mentioned, its conflict of interest or how to offend the legally organised strike of teachers, along with his Minister Aladrovic, who his secretary of state clearly said is still not in line with the system itself. And this discrepancy is also seen by the fact that in Croatia today we have not received information from the government what will be the minimum wage. Fifty thousand workers in Croatia expect the government to give a minimum wage in Croatia by 31.10, as defined in the law. What I consider to be a person who has been Minister of Labour, who has defrosted the minimum wage in Croatia that HDZ has kept frozen for years, that instead of establishing a variety of commissions, we have come to a point where we can define minimum wage in a much simpler, acceptable and more transparent way. I therefore believe that the minimum wage should be defined as 60% of the median salary, which in June of this year was 7.324,00 kuna and that the minimum wage in 2020 should be 4,095.00 kuna gross, approximately 3,515,00 kuna net. And that's something the citizens of Croatia expect. And what the government has done, it has made one commission that has ten members, each month receiving thousands of kuna for its work. They met at the 4th month of this year, held three meetings, and there are at least three minimum wage proposals that should be defined in the government very soon, which says that we are throwing out money instead of simply solving the minimum wage issue. This proposal offers flexibility, predictability and security of the minimum wage proposal and clearly provides for what this amount should be. I call on Minister Aladrovic, who is still in place in the system, so this morning he also withdrew the laws that we have been saying for 68 years is something that will not lead to a better situation in the labour market and will lead to young people unable to work because they will be blocked by their jobs, especially in public services, and in the private sector and in the real sector rarely who will remain behind 65 years of work. The government should therefore consider, instead of 68 years of extension, one more thing that should be defined in Croatia, which is a trend in Europe, which is that it is time to start cutting hours in Croatia. It's 40 hours a week now, and I think I should, and I'm going to suggest that in the amendments to the Labour Act that I'm going to refer to as a parliamentary procedure, that all those over 60 should work 35 hours a week. And that is one step towards reducing the number of working hours in Croatia because it is something which is also a trend in Europe and I think Croatia can do at this time. Unlike those who receive pensions under special regulations, privileged pensions that know how much their pension will be, Croatian workers, 50,000 Croatian workers who are on minimum at this time do not know how much their minimum wage will be, and on the other hand, the government is throwing money with various commissions, while Minister Aladrovic is still managing the system, while Prime Minister Plenkovic defends his conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148029	We've come to an end. So, as I said with the first item of the agenda: - The Annual Report of the Government of the Republic of Croatia We leave at 10:30, so please be in your seats. Thank you very much. It's 10.25 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148030	The next club of MPs is that of HSS and Democrats on behalf of whom the respected representative Davor Vlaovic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148031	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here yesterday, the Prime Minister spoke a lot of things in his report on the work of the Government, and somehow little or no mention of Croatian agriculture and the situation in Croatian agrarian and it turns out that agriculture is irrelevant and irrelevant in the Republic of Croatia. And here is why I wanted to remind the Croatian public today that the HSS and Democrats club was supported by the signatures of the other opposition colleagues to request that the discussion of the government's work be discussed or do nothing to request the European Commission and the European Council to extend the moratorium to the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners. We have the right to do so, it was signed on the basis of a pre-accession contract when Croatia entered the EU, we received a moratorium in seven years and we have the right to submit a request for another three years. Of course, it should be well explained and substantiated by what we have done in the implementation of land policy and what is planned, and we from the HSS are asking to submit this request to the European Commission and to extend the moratorium for the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners because our agriculture, our village, is not yet ready for the competition of European agricultural producers. This item has entered the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, but it is not yet in the debate, so I ask the vice president to inform the Croatian Parliament to include it in the agenda next week. Why wait? Why should the Croatian public not know about this because we have information that, after submitting our interpretation, the Ministry of Agriculture has stepped up preparations, talks and contacts with European officials and that certain documents have been sent and answers are waiting, comments are waiting to be answered. Shouldn't we, as the Croatian Parliament, know what it was in an argument to extend the moratorium for the sale of state agricultural land to foreigners to the European Commission. I think a stronger position would be Croatia in these negotiations if we had the position of the Croatian Parliament. So why wouldn't it be next week in the debate here because me and we're afraid that because of the slowness of our administration we'll be late with that request and we won't make a good argument. And in addition to that, I asked the Ministry of Agriculture for 13.6 more this year how much of this we have for the state agricultural land, how much was sold, how much was leased, how much in the concession, and here it took me four months to get an answer with two rushes. Today I received the answer that the state agricultural land of the Republic of Croatia is over 890000 hectares, that what particularly hurts and stings in the eyes until 2013 while the programme of state agricultural land was managed through the local self-government unit of the Ministry of Agriculture has no data. Watch out, that's what the answer says. There's no data. From 2013 to 2018 346 hectares were sold to domestic family farms, it was leased 97,723 hectares and 55,047 hectares in concession. What about the difference between over 700,000 acres? In what form are they available, who is there with them? I cannot believe that the Ministry of Agriculture has no record of how much state agricultural land is until 2013 and after 2018, when the basis of the law gives it back to the management of municipalities and cities, in which it is available to this main resource, more than 700,000 hectares. So here's a public question, why doesn't the Minister come and the Prime Minister come and give the report to the Croatian Parliament how the land policy is implemented in the Republic of Croatia, is it planned to apply for a moratorium for sale to foreigners, or is this prepared for just some farmers from Europe who have capital and will raise Croatian agriculture and Croatian agricultural production? Unfortunately, that is probably not the case because there is only a matter of political courtship, vote buying, and there is little concern for the village and agriculture. And on the other hand, we see what's going on in the country. Bombs are being planted under the vans, bombs are leaving at the doors of the OPG because there is a need for state agricultural land, people want to round up their property, and apparently our administration is silent and now the municipalities and cities are finally wrong, and they haven't received complete documentation. More than 205 municipalities have not yet received agreement on state-owned agricultural land programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148032	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148033	It is now up to Mr Davor Vlaovic to present the position of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148034	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. On this day 23.10.1847. The parliament decided that Croatian language is an official language in public services and institutions. Today, after 172 years, we have to wonder if all institutions speak Croatian, if everyone who participates in these decision-making processes understand Croatian. Why am I stressing that? Well, because apparently the government and the prime minister and teachers, teachers, teachers don't understand each other as if not everyone speaks Croatian. And once again here is the HSS, and I personally support teachers, professors, teachers in their protest, who will still be here with the song today, reminding the prime minister that they speak Croatian and that they are looking for dialogue in Croatian. And the prime minister says he needs dialogue so why don't she sit down and solve the problem. And it's not true that they violate fiscal stability and financial stability of the state with their demands, they're just looking for equalisation of rights. Why would they, by the complexity of the work, be underrated by the same rank, of their fellow public service. It can't be solved with a 6.12% salary increase. And it is good that public officials will increase their wages but not only can this injustice be solved, but here we should listen to teachers, teachers and teachers and sit down with them, talk and reach an agreement. Because there is no state development unless it is invested in science, education, unless it is important to those who carry that burden, which are teachers, teachers, teachers. Because if he's not motivated then there's no quality transfer of knowledge to students and students, then there's no qualified workforce, high-skilled labour force, then there's no development. And this is when we compare it with GDP growth data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce that we had 51.5 billion euros for 2018 and that this is growth compared to the previous period of 2.9% but it should be recalled that it is still only 1% less than the pre-crisis year 2008. And what should be pointed out is that Zagreb is 75% more developed than the Croatian average and the worst situation is in Slavonia and Lica. And what bothers me and us at HSS is that, unfortunately, 4 out of 5 Slavonian counties are at the very bottom at the height of GDP. Požega County, Virovitic only 1% participates in the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. The most developed is Osijek County in Slavonia with 19.28 billion kuna. And why is that? Well, because part of the industry has been preserved and because it has been invested in that industry and because it has co-operation with the university, which has scientific background and support. And so is Slavonski Brod and its surroundings, that we have a university, that we have cooperation in science and production, that we have investment in science and education, but that we also have investment in production and new technologies. It does not go without investment in science, it does not go without opening new opportunities to study in its place without the University of Slavonski Brod. In 2015 a law was passed here to establish a university, in 2018 it was the Constitutional Court that there was nothing against the constitution to establish it and we in the budget for 2019 envisaged 5 million kunas for the work of the University of Slavonski Brod, and zero kuna was spent. It's a shame. Why is zero kuna spent? Who's stopping the University of Slavonski Brod? Is it the Rector of the University of Osijek, Mayor of Osijek, Mayor of the Ship, Prime Minister? So here's what I call for them to sit down in Croatian and do it in dialogue because also at the last Council on Slavonia, the prime minister told the Rector and both mayors to sit down and solve the problem. It's not settled. And with the right of the Brodjans and the Posavina of the Brod, and also the Posavina of Bosnia is rebelling against the neglect of this part of Slavonia. And that is why we will continue to lag behind in GDP by all else and have a great move from Slavonia because Slavonia, Slavonski Brod and the wider surrounding area is ignored. Who's cutting their heads off in Slavonski Brod, who's bothered by Slavonski Brod and the development of this neighborhood? Take care of it, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148035	Thank you very much, Mr. Vlaovic. It is now up to Mr Davor Vlaovic to present the positions of the Club of Representatives of the HSS and Democrats
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148037	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, these days we have witnessed waves of strikes in Croatia and it is not just about climate change, because of the grandmother's summer and high temperatures, and now someone's got a dream we're going to protest a little bit. The nurses and technicians, teachers, professors protested, and here we see and the colleges joined what we welcome from HSS, but unfortunately here is the strike from this morning and 600 workers from Đuro Đaković, special vehicles companies, industrial solutions and groups d.d. Why are they strikein'? Well, because they didn't get paid for September and there's no indication of a solution for the next period, and the prime minister is on a wave of these good temperatures somewhere in Brussels and he forgot about Slavonski Brod, Djur Đakovic and more than 600 workers. Why do I say forget? So even in July, the trade unions sent him a letter saying that the situation in this group is not good, that financial problems are being seen and that those trade unions are looking for, be careful they are thinking proactively to establish crisis management for Djuro Djakovic. What's the government's reaction? Nothing. Pass. We hear the leak again, they missed three months, they missed something to do for this group. And remember three years ago when this company, along with some others, was removed from the list of strategically important for the Republic of Croatia, when I protested that it was not good, that Slavonia and Djuro Djakovic did not deserve it, they said nothing to worry we will fight for this company with a good master's marm, as if on the list of strategic companies. So is this a good master's marina? To get the company into a situation where workers don't get paid, is that because of the good master? That's when Croatila Airlines was downloaded from the list of strategically important, and I see these days 250 million kuna were found to save this company financially because we are a tourist country so it's important that tourists come to the Republic of Croatia for our national air carrier. So I'm calling the prime minister, so bring them in and into Slavonski Brod, make it obvious to you that Đuro Đakovic no longer works to be the museum of industrial plants, the museum of the metro-trafficking industry, so you tell the tourists, but here you can see there was once the most modern locomotive, there was a radio tram here, there was a radio tank, there was an armored combat vehicle, there were bridges built here, there was a modern facility. Is this the government's goal, did these 600 workers in Đura Djakovic deserve it? So they don't get paid and the government doesn't react for three months. To be the Djuro Djakovic Museum of Industry, and they, where are they going? Ireland, Germany or where? Well, here, I also call on the Minister of the Bear because most of them were defenders, members of the 108nd Brigade and 159th and 139th because apparently when Tomo Bear takes matters into his own hands then he solves something for the defenders, so take over then be you crisis management of Đura Djakovic's group Mr. Medved because obviously Mr. Plenkovic doesn't care. And I also invite the workers to, as they brought out here this morning from the Pernar Assembly because they asked for your salaries, so you bring out that commendable management that has done nothing for you that is not our solution to the Zagreb bank that cancelled the monitoring of this group. Take that administration out because obviously they don't know how to run this company, you be that crisis management and finally the boaters take the lead of this company because we see that those from HNS who came to our side obviously are not interested in Slavonia, that they are not interested in production and jobs in Đura Djakovic, but obviously some other interests were. So let's wake up more and more finally say, if you don't let us work, if you don't pay our wages, if you don't let us educate ourselves in our city that we have a university in Slavonski Brod, what do you want us to do, what are you planning with Slavonia and Slavonski Brod, Mr. Prime Minister? As early as July, workers warned you about the problem in business and that there was no money to pay, and they have contracts until 2021. Whose interest is it, and are we really going to turn all of Slavonia into a museum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148038	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148039	We are now going to the 10th debate, dear colleague Miranda Mrsic, the club of representatives of the HSS and Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148040	Dear colleagues and colleagues. With Croatia's entry into the EU and the beginning of the application of the European arrest warrant, a significant group of dual-citizen criminals simply moved east and highest in BiH. Any such man who has dual citizenship in Croatia and BiH is clearly feeling far more secure in Bosnia because in Croatia he is then exposed to criminal persecution. How many such people are de facto there are no records and I remind you that the legal legislation of the EU Member States is arranged in a way that there is no way that any criminal in any Member State can be protected. The European arrest warrant shall require all States to extradite the suspect regardless of whether he has either dual citizenship or nationality of that country. Because we have entered the EU of BiH and Serbia has become richer overnight too" for many capital copies of Croatian criminals with dual citizenship whose status in the society of Croatia's entry into the EU has become insecure. In the Ministry of Justice of Croatia, there is no database on requests for the extradition of people with dual citizenship, which is a disgrace to the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, the big question is how many authorities in BiH and institutions are ready to face this security threat before due to the rigid rules and provisions of the BiH Constitution on dual citizenship, most such criminals will remain protected and remain free as a bird. According to the latest data from the BiH Ministry of Justice after giving a powerful verdict, only to say that not only did our criminals escape to BiH but they also fled to Croatia so that we have an exchange of 282 suspects, 110 fled to Croatia and 100 to Serbia until they know where they are in 60. At the same time, about 58 people legally convicted in Croatia are hiding in BiH, mostly in the area of Herzegovina from which most convicts are encouraged. Let me remind you, the most famous criminals who fled Croatia using dual citizenship. Ante Jelavic, a former BiH presidency member, sentenced to 10 years in prison, fled to Croatia. Miroslav Kutle or another name for Croatian privatisation, fled to BiH, is now in business there. Ivan Bender, Croatia, fled BiH because he would like to avoid a 4.5-year sentence. Ognjen Simic, a Rijeka cardiologist, Jozo Curkovic, Josip Gučić, and our Parliament colleague Branimir Glavas, who took advantage of the benefits of dual citizenship and then even led his party in Croatia from BiH. The most famous fugitive is Zdravko Mamic, which is obvious that he will not be convicted but on the other hand, Dominic has fled to Croatia... A.K.A. Komo who was sentenced to 15 years in prison for war crimes in Varesh and Kiseljak. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Zdravko Mamic is the last in a series of people to flee from the prosecution of judicial authorities, go to BiH and, as he is a BiH citizen, the minimum possibility of him being extradited to Croatia. A major aid is neither a extradition contract signed between BiH and Croatia, because the contract clearly provides for extradition in the case of organised crime and corruption, and if the fine has been prevented for more than 4 years but the practice shows that the contract is not respected at all and that there is simply no wish on the part of Croatia or on the part of BiH for the contract to be respected and that criminals using dual citizenship, fled either to Croatia, or to BiH. Isn't it time for some things to change? What I ask is whether these persons deserve Croatian citizenship and is it not time to introduce order in Croatia and that people who have dual citizenship when they flee to BiH, this dual citizenship, Croatian citizenship, loses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148041	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148042	We move on to the next debate, or the presentation of a position on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSS and Democrats, dear colleague Davor Vlaović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148043	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues on behalf of the HSS Club and Democrats here are a few words about the current political situation and should say that we are currently in the Republic of Croatia in a situation that citizens cannot exercise their rights by normal democratic means, but must show their civil disobedience by strike. And here and today is the general strike of teachers, teachers, teachers and will be here in Mark's square, and I think we all must support them in this effort to achieve their rights, because other methods couldn't achieve it. For 17 days now, this strike has taken place and could have been resolved and last week that there has been political will, and now there has been criticism towards teachers, teachers and teachers that they are not important children and their education, and there are some criticisms from parents who have been nervous about what has been going on for so long, and the main culprit is the Government and Resort Minister who have not solved it and I think we need to support it to get rid of it today, and not that it has been delayed for another week, because it is embarrassing for teachers, teachers and teachers in the rankings, to be able to do professionally prepare for the same rank jobs to have the lowest coefficients and minimum wages and, as long as it is so far as we cannot expect quality education, their motivation in working with children, and finally to do harm children and their families because they do not acquire those skills that they need, and tomorrow they will be more difficult to work, so full support the teachers's and teachers and teachers's call on the government's still to work day. And that the model of functioning that has to go to the streets and the strike is here and Đuro Đakovic in Slavonski Brod, 600 workers still have not been paid for September, it has been announced that it will be this week and everyone wonders now what they strike, maybe they haven't earned a salary, they have earned their salary, they have arranged jobs until 2021, but those who have managed society, means management, supervisory board, and even the government as the single largest owner, haven't responded in time,... In July, warned by the union that the Zagreb Bank had given up funding and company monitoring, and it should have come to the fact that the workers had to go out on the street and strike, I hope that they would get the wages for their salaries, for 600 they only need 6 million kuna gross, it is embarrassing that they have salaries between 3.500,00 and 4.500,00 kuna and that these 6 million kunas cannot be found and that there is no longer a long-term solution for this society, because I will remind them that two companies have been shut down in the meantime, that more than 500 labour contracts have been cancelled and that here are finally and for these 600 million kunas, and this is a tragedy, and that this is what I am asking for the competent services to check, that no more than 500 contracts are being paid out of compensation as agreed, and that the tragedy is also for the wages paid so far is not all the tax paid, and that no one has responded to the solution again. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, if so, I think that agricultural producers will have to strike on the example of their colleagues from the Netherlands and France because the only budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is reduced by 2020, and even in 2019 what was to be paid to our agricultural producers, the largest part of the paid direct payments from the EU, and that part of the envelope that we have and we can pay up to 100% to our farmers from national sources, is not paid to our agricultural producers, is not paid for the sugar tail 20 million kuna as the government's decision, but only 7 million, is not paid for the sensitive sectors for the beef, for the goats, for the livestock industry, but is not paid for the next year, and the new blow is now on pork, the regulation strengthens veterinary surveillance due to the prevention and entry of African swine fever into the Republic of Croatia, and needs to build a barrier, but not on the weight of pigs. Why is this not paid if an order from the Ministry of Agriculture or the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no money for it but to sell the pig our farmer must give 180,00 kn for a clinical examination of the veterinarian, he must give half the pigs to the veterinarian, so there will be no Slavonia, so there will be no project Slavonia, so there will be no life in... Neither in the Posavina, save the pigdog, let us strike. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148044	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148045	Well, then we move on to free speech. The first is a respected colleague, Miranda Mrsic, on behalf of the HSS and Democrats' Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148046	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday in the daily paper as in Monty Python Show, we read the government's savings plan, and the government's plan is to abolish the assistant ministers we currently believe 88 and here we don't believe, but here we read to hire 98 management directors or directors and we'll save 10 earrings more. In the run-up of group talks and candidates for HDZ president Plenkovic's growth, he opens up ten new well-paid jobs, thus providing himself with a clear new mandate in HDZ, and over the back of the state budget, Plenkovic provides himself with a new mandate. Shameful, but not unexpected from HDZ, which is otherwise synonym for corruption, the other word for corruption is HDZ and the state, which I am, will soon say Prime Minister Plenkovic and will further employ party listeners as director of the administration. To remind ourselves, the competition for directors of management organisations in the ministries was launched on 9 October after the Law on the State Administration System entered into force. The government then abolished ministerial assistant posts, but as 20 ministries now see it, they are looking for more management directors than they had an assistant. At that time, in the debate over the law, the HDZ swore there would be no increase in the number of perpetrators. We haven't heard from the ministers what the increase in the size of the job is, which are projects that need to be implemented to hire new people, new directors of the administration, and some ministers haven't heard for months, so it's hard to see at all what it is to explain why there are more directors at once than there were assistants. But clearly this will cost Croatian citizens because buying the chair of HDZ president is difficult about 2.8 million kuna because the basis for civil servants has been increased and this will cause each of these salaries to be 600 kunas higher than the ministerial assistants had. 2.8 million kuna will cost more Croatian citizens the employment of ten new assistants, or ten new directors, former assistants or members of the HDZ. The price of the HDZ chair in this case is 2.8 million kuna. Is that what the citizens of Croatia deserve? Instead of reducing the bureaucratic apparatus, we rationalise the country's particular number of cities, municipalities, the Croatian counties turn into an office, a country of loyal party listeners in well-paid places. Optimism for Croatia yelled at the president yesterday at the presentation of the programme, and now we see what optimism is, optimism for the obedient. And I'm going to quote to the president once more her slogan "Croatia knows better" and I'm going to say Croatia knows that this HDZ must be disposed of to move towards better and that Croatia knows better, but only if HDZ is not in power. Mr. Prime Minister, it is not normal to buy yourself a chair of HDZ presidents through the budget of the Republic of Croatia and across the back of citizens, it is not normal for teachers to strike for weeks, it is not normal for half of your party to live off-limits, it is not normal for a country of 4 million people to have such a big bureaucratic state apparatus. Do not turn Croatia into an earful, there is a new crisis at the door, and if you continue this way, Croatia unfortunately has no help, more citizens will move out, we will lose youth and Croatia will become a real old earring. This is what HDZ did to Croatia and that is what Croatian citizens do not deserve. Let us not let Croatia become "Uhlebistan". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148047	Finally, Mrs Ljubica Lukacic will speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148048	... I'd say the problem that came up at the beginning of this school year. [[Speech is not enabled.]] And I therefore feel that, as I said today, it is necessary to talk about it even if we do not speak for a moment. Do all students with developmental difficulties need help? I don't know if any of you have ever wondered. A colleague of Sabina Vosovac here today said, an extremely large number of students with developmental difficulties as much as 10 to 12%, which of course is not true. The fact is that there are a large number of students with developmental difficulties, but not those who need an assistant, and not all people with disabilities need a personal assistant, as well as all students do not need a teaching assistant. Each child through his primary school education and a high school student, of course, is obliged and must show all his abilities. If someone else does it for him, learns for him, takes his books out of his bag, that kid will never learn that. I hope not all those parents who may be listening to this now will be angry because I mention many have called me and certainly one who needs an assistant and gets it. But since this year we've been applying a new rule, we've wanted it so badly, and now that we have it, when we have the criteria, of course there's been a problem. Many schools have made late requests, and I would say all of that in some way normally in this first year of applying the rules. We've got problems to solve. Tomorrow at the Ministry of Science and Education will be a meeting at which most likely everyone will present their views on how this should be resolved, but the Regulation is in force and it must apply. Do you also know that a large number of children who have never received an assistant this year are never artificial, you know what that means, that no one has ever diagnosed them, that it is like, or some school board, not underestimating anyone or someone said that this child needs an assistant in the follow-up. We started to create a parallel system of art. That can't be allowed. We wanted a unique body, and it will have to tell who the child with developmental difficulties is and who needs an assistant. I am sure that the ministry, as well as the government as a whole, as so far, will solve this problem in a satisfactory way because this government has shown so far that the problems are solved, but of course when a hand is pushed into a bag of problems, some are not satisfied. I'd like to ask all my parents and all my students for a little more patience, and I'm sure all those who need help will need help and get help. And the students at the rehabilitation centers are a special story. I also ask you here, and the entire Croatian public, whether these students need a teaching assistant, in the centres for professional rehabilitation there are defecologists, educators, social workers and a number of other experts from teachers and teachers who are educated to work with children with developmental difficulties. There were never any assistants in those facilities, it's more recent. If you ask me, all these people need to know how to deal with these students, they're paid for it. And that's how it's supposed to be, you should give them more pay, but they have to work. Let's not let getting an assistant relieve the responsibilities and classmates and any teachers and parents, I hope that's not going to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148049	Thank you, too. We've given more time because of the problems with the microphone, and we apologize for these technical problems, which I hope won't happen again.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148050	The next club is the HDZ on behalf of which the respected representative, Suncana Glavak, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, a few words in these less than five minutes. Grief prevailed in the SDP. After only 6 years, Croatia has a chance to get the Vice-President of the European Commission, and imagine the SDP is not in power and has nothing to do with it. They are hypocritical, for example, when they did not ask for the property card of the then Commissioner Mimica, you may not remember him because he may not have been very impressive in his term as Commissioner. And imagine not asking Zoran Milanovic to announce their candidate for president of the Republic of Croatia to whom, for whom and in whose interest he worked as a consultant. So my question is, will it ask for SDP and GONG? The grief seems to have prevailed after yesterday's statement by Mr Juncker that Croatia has met all the conditions for entering Schengen. I will remind you, the biggest national project since the release of the Republic of Croatia was the achievement of Croatia in the most significant alliances and institutions. Joining the NATO Alliance and the EU. As the youngest member of the EU, Croatia today has a chance to get the Vice-President of the European Commission. Instead of supporting the strengthening of our country among the most influential countries that create European policies, there is an obstruction and attack, and I would dare say the destruction of the country's reputation by SDP, and the same with rhetoric and GONG. The SDP does not seem to me to want any influence among European countries, and what else is Croatia's obstruction. It is about dangerous intentions, political damage, reputations in all the efforts of the Republic of Croatia to have a Vice-President of the European Commission. Due to Croatian citizens, including my fellow MPs, I would like to point out clearly that so far it has not happened that a country has obstructed and ministrated the selection of its representatives in any of the EU institutions, that what SDP and GONG organisations are doing has recently been the current SDP executive secretary Dragan Zelic, a disgrace to a country full of EU members. The SDP members of the Assembly Committee on Foreign Policy raised the same questions at Mrs Dubravka Shuice's hearing as the GONG is now asking, and they clearly received answers to all their questions and did not vote against her appointments on the same-named committee. They were restrained. Now cowardly undermine over their satellites what they were unable to do alone. Ms. Shuica has also passed the Committee on Legal Affairs in Brussels and nothing is disputed with her assets. The SDP wants to bring Croatia down to 3 leagues. Don't do this to your colleagues. Our policy was and will remain, a strong push for Croatia, its interests and its strengthening within European institutions, whether candidates proposed by the HDZ or not, if that is in Croatia's interest. Such party plantings and destruction of the reputation of Croatia and the ground floor statements of some SDP representatives such as Peđa Grbin who is loud against the Croatian candidate, and those when, for example, it must appear at the government's meeting in its electoral unit, and it does not come at all, in favour of the interests of its citizens where he is elected. The position of Mrs Dubravka Shuice is recognition of the reputation of Croatia, our government and all of us who can be proud because it is something for the country we love, in which we want to work, in which we want to live and for whose interests we must fight. Everyone here in their own way in the Croatian Parliament, and especially as Croatian representatives, when someone outside our borders looks at us, regardless of the political omen. It should be in everyone's interest to me, except for those who work against their country today. My colleagues and colleagues, I think once again that we are all together so that Croatia has as many of its representatives as possible and that it is as prominent in any of the European or world institutions. And I call once again to see who Zoran Milanovic worked for and how he did not question the property card and we see how much Mr Mimica now has at the end of the term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148052	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148053	And we're going to Club No. 10, Club of HDZ Representatives, esteemed colleague Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148054	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So listening to nine of my predecessors, as a rule other than Mr. Mader, were representatives of the opposition clubs, they wanted to point to total grayness in the Republic of Croatia, a difficult situation in the economy, in all the most important systems in the Republic of Croatia. This is the measure of the government's poor moves that even the growth of credit in kunas is attributed as a success of the opposition and not in fact the confidence of citizens in the kuna, in the financial system in Croatia in stabilising the budget, in the fact that for 2 years the Republic of Croatia's budget has been in surplus, so that clearly through the growth of the economy, through the increase in wages, through increased pensions citizens have more faith clearly in the financial system, thus... and kuna and then comes up, as is said to grow, for example, housing loans right in kunas. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And despite the fact that the opposition thus shows the situation in the Republic of Croatia almost undetected. The data we are listening to these days, not based on the impressions, of an individual opposition politician, but on indicators, mathematical indicators, based on figures we hear from international institutions and which talk about the growth of the economy in Croatia, about the use of eu funds. For example, it was announced a few days ago that the Republic of Croatia, although it has become the last member of the EU above the EU average when it comes to the use of EU funds. In this financial envelope, we have agreed 78% and 9.8 billion euros, respectively, above the EU average of 77%. More than 25% has been paid, total contracted funds, something below the average, but therefore Croatia is above the developed EU countries when it comes to, for example, over Germany when it comes to the use of European money. Or, on the other hand, we heard that, I think it was published a few days ago, that Croatia also grew on the competitiveness scale, i.e. that the Croatian economy in relation to other countries in the environment grew faster and when it comes to the conditions of business in Croatia so that Croatia increased by 5 seats compared to the period before that. So these are data that specifically speak about the state of the Croatian economy, about the state of the country much more than is the impression of an individual opposition politician. Now suddenly we are bothered by the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has announced an amendment and the adoption of a new law on national holidays and working days and mentions because it is a populist performance of this government while on the other hand there are concrete problems that are not being solved. I think exactly the opposite that in these 3 years the Croatian Government has dealt with precisely the specific problems in the Croatian economy, from Agrokor, the increase in wages, the regulation of the agriculture sector, about the state of construction, etc., about the situation, through tax reforms that allowed the reduction of tax pressure on both citizens and entrepreneurs. Because if the Croatian government had dealt with these populist ideas, such as it was said just before, it would not have been possible for the growth of the economy all these years at 3%, it would not have been the fact that it has never been employed in Croatia since 1990 until today more employees than it has been, but it is this year. So, dealing with these very specific things rather than with the populist topics that Mr. Beus Richembergh had just mentioned earlier, the data of international financial institutions spoke, the data of the Croatian Statistics Institute etc., etc., etc. I therefore agree that the time is pre-election, that we have before us elections for the president, that is, the President of the Republic of Croatia, but we are better off being objective and really being the state of play as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148055	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148056	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Bacic, injured Article 238, paragraph 5, because he disrespected lawmakers when he said that everyone was talking about blackness which is false. All MPs in the opposition except for your ruling Bandic club, which is not true. On behalf of the club MOST, my colleague Grumo called for a common ground in case of problem resolution... And I think that problem is a huge problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I don't think it's invited to the community, and it's not called for ink. [[Intruder President: Thank you, colleague Bulj.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148057	My colleague Bulj and you know very well that this is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure and do not do such things because it has nothing to do with the violation of the Rules of Procedure, nothing at all. There were 10 debates, each special in its own way, there was...... And what's black is, from now on, if I give him a violation of the Rules of Procedure now, then you will have a violation of the Rules of Procedure in each of your discussions because you use the heavy words. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] So I'm asking you not to abuse the breach of the Rules of Procedure. We're going to the agenda now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148058	The next club is the HDZ Representatives' Club on behalf of which the respected representative, Zarko Tušek, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148059	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, in front of the club and in my personal name, I would like to speak a few words about the very complex substance of the ossuary property, and in the context of the amendment to the executive law adopted in the right reading, and from the position of the units of local self-government and the problems they have with that property. By way of derogation from Article 6(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 6 of this Regulation. Inheritance laws are prescribed to quote “Death of an heir who does not have an heir has passed over to the municipality or city determined by this law which thus receives the same position as that of the leaver’s heirs whom they cannot give up. ” Legal heirs are generally familiar with the trustee’s property, or that his debts exceed the value of his inheritance and give up his inheritance. It is therefore considered that there is no successor and as provided for in Article 130(4). Inheritance laws that move on the desert to a municipality or city that does not, of course, have the privilege of giving up such an inheritance. This means that the municipality or city is in a specific position because they have to accept the legal consequences resulting from liability for the debtor’s debts. Ossage assets usually inherited by local self-government units are mostly low market values,... book ownership in the possession of other persons should be maintained for the sake of the environment and other people while the debt of the leaver is significantly higher its loans, loans and general debts. We know that banks sell their claims to various agencies and that's where they start nightmares for local self-government units. Since the heirs are responsible for the leavers' debts to the amount of property inherited throughout their assets in practice, it happened that certain municipalities or cities were found in a difficult position than they were before the inheritance because the trustees had achieved their claims on the entire property of the municipality and the city and, in general, on the accounts, which led to the question of the carrying out and those underlying tasks of the local self-government units. For this very reason, for the protection of units of local self-government as early as 2013. Inheritance law, and paragraph 6, which reads, quotes "The subject of the exercise or the insurance of the investigations of the creditors of the municipality or the city to which the excess property has passed can only be things and rights which are an integral part of the legacy". So it clearly writes only things and rights that are an integral part of the desert. Therefore, if the component is not monetary funds, the local self-government unit cannot be seized by an account, and that is exactly what remains in practice despite a clear legal provision. Why? For the reasons that I have stated earlier, which is that the creditors of the leaver are looking for cash claims because it is mostly about banks, and since 2012 the Executive Act has introduced provisions on direct collection through the FINA applicable to monetary obligations, and so the creditors in the capacity of the prosecutor to appeal for the outcome of the ruling. a final ruling requiring the defendant in a specific case of the municipality to settle a certain cash demand because it is irrefutable that the debt exists. The verifier shall not initiate the procedure for the implementation of the proposal for enforcement in order to collect the debt by applying the general arrangement of the prescribed rules of law under which it would have to comply with Article 139(6). The law on inheritance as an object of the exercise lists only things or rights that make up the oscillating property, but by law since it is a monetary demand that enables it to immediately go with a request for direct payment through the FINA and thus the blocking and confiscation of accounts, while the ossuary property remains intact. In one such lawsuit for payment of municipalities, the Court referred to Article 139(6), which stated the following decision as regards the provision of Article 139(6). It is pointed out by the law on succession that no proceedings are being conducted in this case for the purpose of achieving or providing for a claim, which is why the defendant cannot be personally referred to the application of that provision, or that provision, may be relevant only in the procedure of the conduct or insurance of the claimant's creditors. Yes, but it's not about the procedure of the execution, but the outcome of the execution was carried out on an object that wasn't meant to be on. The local self-government unit was put in a more difficult position than it was before the inheritance. The direct payment has simplified the collection procedure in favour of the creditors and despite the legislator's intensities to protect local self-government units in such a way that the collection only goes out of excess assets in the case of monetary enquiries is also irrelevant. So in fact, in some ways, by suggesting the position of the unit of local self-government as they have found that this property is really worth little or nothing, we suggest that in the current amendment and the addition of the executive law that it is made in such a way that the units of local self-government which are heirs to the excess property, if they have not inherited the funds, that, independently of monetary demand, the creditors can be charged only with the subject-matter and in this regular executive procedure, means only after the sale of that property, to the extent that it is possible. Well, thank you very much, I'm sorry for making it a little longer, but matter is relatively complex and important.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148060	And finally, Mr Branko Bačić, who will present the position of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to say a few words about yesterday's decision, the College of Commissioners of the European Commission in Strasbourg, which adopted a communication assessment of the full implementation of the Schengen acquis and the continuation of compliance with the commitments made by the Republic of Croatia in relation to the application of this acquis in accession negotiations. The day yesterday by which the Commission confirmed that Croatia has fulfilled all the preconditions in technical and legal terms to become part of the Schengen area, to become part of a European border-free area, is a big day for Croatia, it is a big day for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This is also an important day for Croatia, also important for Europe, and it is especially important for our neighbours, as well as for the neighbouring Republic of Slovenia, who in this process had more significant reservations about Croatia's entry into the Schengen area. What is important to say is that in June of this year in Croatia he was the President of the European Commission and announced that he hopes Croatia will meet all the requirements so that in the mandate of his commission it could practically give the green light to Croatia to move towards full membership in the Schengen area. So Croatia has met all the technical conditions and is the only step further, that is to make a decision of the EU Council on the accession to the Schengen area. The success of the team is as high as possible up to a few years ago, and according to the Commission, Croatia was very, very far from the Schengen area and had not met the basic assumptions that it was obliged to enter into the Schengen accession procedure. And that is why the government's success is greater when it is known that in these not few years, conditions have been resolved and met in eight key areas of entry into the Schengen area, which are areas covering the rules relating to firearms, data protection, return and readmission, police cooperation, common visa policy, the Schengen Information System, judicial cooperation in criminal matters and the management of external borders. Therefore, in these past 2.5 - 3 years, a huge step has been made in all these areas, conditions have been met, but also in an infrastructure sense, border equipment, construction of new border crossings. In addition to these jobs that I mentioned earlier, Croatia received EUR 270 million from European funds, which was practically possible to complete and prepare Croatia to enter this Schengen area without borders. At the same time, Croatia is working on its second priority, which is the entry into the European zone and in July, as we know, we have sent a letter of intention to enter the European Course Mechanism, which is the first step on the path of joining the euro zone and a sort of lobby in the process of introducing the EUR. So, all of these jobs, Croatia is identified as a responsible country which, its own, implements its obligations at the highest level and thus practically fulfils its foreign policy and above all European objectives. But in these remaining 1 minute, how much left for a free statement I have left, I would look back on a few words from my colleague Bauk, in which he resents the government, which has announced to all state and public officials in the Republic of Croatia and will increase the base by 6% next year. Here, I cannot understand that one Social Democratic Party, a government-disputed party, as an employer, is going to make it possible for all its employees without additional borrowing, which through work consisting of the sustainability of the state budget without deficits will have the strength, the ability of all their employees to increase their salary by 6%. It is clearly a story to the SDP that is impossible for them, not that they did not raise salaries in their mandate but that they had abolished just as professors and teachers and regresses and abolished all those duties that were prescribed under the rules for educators. Therefore, my colleague, Bauk, is no one's ego, but only cares for all employees in the public and state sectors. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148062	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148063	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148064	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's something I'd like to say, given that two days ago we witnessed a major event here in the Republic of Croatia. Namely, then a famous declaration was signed that created an anti-corruption alliance in the Republic of Croatia consisting of parties SDP, HSS, HSU and SNAGA. Of course, everyone who looked at it had what of course and saw in view of the expressions of the people who signed it. Because what did they sign? They say they have committed themselves, as well as everyone else, to fight corruption systematically, to insist on transparency, to pass laws that will prevent abuse of positions and corruption at national and local level, and to demand that laws be regulated and the issue of origin of property. I say once again when you see these characters Bernardic, Beljak, Hrelj, Alexic, this one acidic expression when you sign something so important that you don't fit in, you simply know that you can't support it, that at the very event of this signing, it's more important to wait for the end of the signature itself than the content you sign if you're aware that such a smile on your face or with such a smile on your face you can't justify the document you're signing. It's clear that then every citizen has the right to say, you're not the son that needs to be led by something called that. Why did Bernardic look bad inside that self-proclaimed anti-corruption alliance? Because he's a hypocrite, he's silenced his own moral discrepancies. And the question came up a little earlier in the Croatian media, which is the issue of NBA diploma, the simple question that Mr Bernardić started to explain that it was a lifelong education and knowledge acquisition. It doesn't matter in this case, we're talking about an official, a politician. In this case, it is important to question the cost of costing such a diploma, who paid and how. We've seen from the media the amount, 260,000 kuna or 36,000 euros, that's only 525 times the gift the official can receive. Only 525 times more, and that's what the gentlemen of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest should know. That's a huge amount, and I hope those gentlemen didn't open the way to this decision that they made to get all the other officials into that space. That would be an unauthorized gift to us. Unauthorized gift. However, in that verdict that we have seen in the media, only parts because it is not out there on the Commission's pages, it says something else, that this scholarship has been awarded to discretionary school law, which means it has not been as accessible to everyone as the municipalities and cities share it, etc., by competition. The question arises whether this falls under the Income Tax Act, Art. 9, paragraph 19? Is there a tax on such a scholarship? And we saw something else from that verdict. That Mr Bernardic has committed himself to 120 hours of consulting, scientific and research work. Such work in a regulated world requires different contracts, which are also cited, some amount and other income should also be paid tax. Our question in view of all the opportunities we had to learn about such a degree is Mr Bernardic, is he paying taxes on everything you have committed to the scholarship and the way the scholarship was assigned? It's a question today, so it wouldn't happen to you otherwise if someone had to call you that the tax has been hidden and doesn't work for us here, it's more for my colleagues Maras, he's probably going to ask you first today, and it's the worst thing that bothers him, so Mr Bernardic, be honest with yourself so we don't lie to everyone else because we're simply asking you to reassure us of what we asked you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148065	I thank my esteemed colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148066	We are going to the last debate, the HDZ Representatives' Club, respected counterpart Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148067	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here we say on behalf of the club something in the morning in these free topics because we see that again this morning we have the lies of former Prime Minister Milanovic's government, Mr Mrsic and Mr Maras, who are turning here into some kind of main Milanovic flock. To make one more convincing, he founded a party of several members and would again like to co-ordinate with the same SDP he came out of. And in order for him to do that and possibly be here, he must prove himself in the morning with attacks, completely unprepared and of course with lies. Because he himself had the opportunity to edit and create a system especially in the Ministry of Labour and to provide our generations of older people with better pensions, better salaries, those employees, better contracts and all that someone in the public service can get. However, they have done everything the opposite and it is clear to them that this poisoning and Hitting of the Government is trying to make an impression on them every morning, but I suppose to Croatian citizens, too, to continue to be current. So what did they do in public administration reform? They immediately increased the number of officials as soon as they arrived, increased the number of agencies and replaced all those who were at the head of the agencies by then. What is this government doing? It reduces the number of agencies, institutes and institutions, reduces the number of officials, the exact opposite of them. It's the only truth, it's verifiable, and we can watch it every day. As for some other situations, we heard the relationship i.e. The issue of yesterday's gathering, yesterday's winning event of the current and future president of Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic. They're angry, jealous, public and all the world is asking for bills, and we've been looking for and asking their presidential candidate's accounts for days to show who he was working with, how much money he got from those clients, who these people are so that he could normally move from some private function to some public duty tomorrow, nothing more than that. But there's no answer, there's no answer. As for who's attacking us, I say once again, the ministers who normally left us the situation with this government 70 billion public debt more, 12 quarters of BPD's decline, credit rating in the trash, 40,000 closed jobs. No one at one time could count all the unemployed in the Republic of Croatia, let's remember that dial that at one point crossed 400,000 unemployed. Reduced salaries to everyone in the public sector, especially teachers and teachers plus those supplements that had a regression, a Christmas card and everything else that this government is paying them back now. So let's just remember Mrsic's relationship with the worker and the employee, he's raised his retirement age to 67 years, today he's against it. But we also heard from the candidate, their candidate, that there are no workers and workers in Croatia, that the SDP and he have no one to represent, is said at that meeting of their candidate. Whether it is enough for workers, a signal that they imagine who might represent them in Croatia and the world, that there are no workers and workers in the Republic of Croatia, the basic message of the meeting. So what's SDP today? And as for these relations they would deal with within the HDZ, gentlemen of the SDP, you and your own problems. Even today, according to four mildly suspended men who must not behave in a party, but are allowed in the Assembly or elsewhere. Why? They were probably good, they were probably the best, one even specifically marked because he said he would never take 260,000 kuna scholarships that we never learned about again, and we asked for answers, whether the tax and all relations involved and such scholarships were paid. So gentlemen, you're dealing with your own problems, you've got it in the SDP, and HDZ will handle it as it has always been, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148068	With this we have reached the end, we have one breach of the Rules of Procedure but only before the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to welcome students and students of the OSCE of Antun Mihanović from Slavonski Brod, welcome. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Mrsic, please. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148069	A colleague, Boric, was injured by an article. In 238, he spoke of things that are not true, in the first place, Mr. Boric, how to convince you that neither I signed the initiative to get 67 out of the Pension Insurance Act, nor in any of my statements can you hear it, so stop lying about it, remember once, and on the other hand, HDZ has left 14 billion in the budget and frozen pensions, that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148070	Thank you, colleague Mrsic. ... Comrade Shuker, please. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] So, like your colleague Bačić, you hurt the Rules of Procedure, this was a replica, and you get a warning. Good morning, dear colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. The first point today is: - Proposed executive law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 676 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 172. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. I would now ask the proposer's representative to give an additional explanation, with us is the respected Drazen Bosnjakovic, the minister of justice. Minister, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. We have already had a lot of discussions and a lot of conferences, round tables where we have presented the solution to the new executive law. I'll do it in short lines more or less. Why the whole new law of law? Because we've already had a whole series of changes and we think it's necessary to come up with a whole new text to solve all of those nomotechnical things that we don't have too many changes than to have one whole new text. This new executive law that we propose today in the first reading offers a whole series of newspapers, I will apostrophe those key ones. We are returning to the jurisdiction of the courts again, today it is related to a credible correction in the jurisdiction of the public notaries, but it is obvious that the Court of Justice does not accept this jurisdiction, does not recognise and therefore, in the performance of our citizens, are not equal with other EU citizens. So we're going back to court and there's a clear question here, it's important not to endanger all these processes that we do in the judiciary, we can't, by returning these cases to the courts so burdened to cause new delays and a new number of pending cases. We all know that we had about tens of years ago a million and a half unsolved cases in courts, and today we've come to some number of 350 thousand that's tolerable and that we're still bringing down all of these changes in the judicial system, and we're making things work faster. These executive cases have been over the past years and 800 thousand and 700 and 600 and if we were to return all of this to court only if we didn't have any other tools, then we would compromise the system and lead to a new number and increase number of pending cases. Therefore, by returning these cases to court in the jurisdiction of the court, we have, however, left in the system both public notebooks and FINA in a manner that assists, Commissioners of the court who have their duties throughout this new procedure, and these tasks are for the purpose of discharging the court and in order for this procedure to go unburdened, not to cause new delays that have caused us quite a burden. So the notaries remain, and they will be the body to which the perpetrators will make suggestions. After that, the public notary will deliver a conclusion to the perpetrator where you will be told against a proposal for an execution, pay if there is a basis within 15 days or already which time limit is foreseen, so that we will solve the good part of the objections that exist in the public that people have not received any notice that they are obliged, that people did not even know that there is any demand from some believer and in this way I think that we will reduce the good part of it. FINA is the part that implements that technical, clean technical support, and related to the seizure of giro accounts, related to the transfer of money and things like that. What is a big step and what I think will be perhaps the biggest thing about speeding up the process itself and the very existence of the process itself is digitisation. Digitalization means we're going to have prescribed forms in the form of forms. When someone initiates the procedure of the execution, then they will fill out that form and the digital path will take the matter to the notebook and the digital path will go from the notebook to the court. And that way, we won't have too much of a piece of paper, we won't charge the system, and that's something some countries have for a long time. This law will make it possible to assume that it really does. When we take into account that we've created conjectures and that in commercial courts we already communicate in this way, when we see that we're going to spread it to all the municipal courts then we're going to go towards that goal that we've set ourselves, which is that we have files without paper. We live in a digital age and this is reflected in the judiciary, which will certainly lead to acceleration and easier treatment. This law also offers a reduction of costs, which was also a lot of words. These costs were quite high and exceeded the claims. We are throwing out some of the actions that have been charged so far, and that means there will be no cost of making proposals for the performance, since it will now be filling in the prescribed form, so we will fix that cost at some level and it will not depend on the value of the dispute and should not depend. Secondly, there is no issuing of that certificate of power because it will also be automated, so on this side we are removing this cost which is also present today in the existing system and we have fixed the exact costs related to the actions performed by FINA and which are carried out by the public notary which essentially depended on the height of the case. We today for those items that are up to 5,000 kuna we fix it at 200 plus VAT kuna and these above that at 300 also plus VAT. So we think that in this way we're going to reduce these costs significantly that this is going to be tolerable. It is clear that every community, every society should be based on the principles of responsibility in taking on obligations, on the responsibility of fulfilling obligations, but the executive law is the law that actually takes place on stage when someone has not fulfilled the demand that someone has had to fulfill on the basis of a judicial verdict, based on some soloized contract or act of another body, and in fact has not come within the envisaged deadlines to fulfill the demand, whether someone has not paid someone, whether someone has not carried out some kind of action that they needed, and then the Implementing Law applies. The executive law of this eye we propose it has in it and a whole series of social ones so I say the elements, shows social sensitivity, with that I must say that there and with the last amendments to the executive law we have made important steps forward, so for example this property cannot be sold for a value where the principal is up to 40,000 kuna, so nominally it can really be more when costs and interest are added to it, but we said that for that principal which is up to 40,000 kuna that there is no enforcement on the only real estate. We have a whole series compared to the existing system, we have a whole series of Christmas gifts, a resurrection, a diary that we have included that can't be done. We already know that we have this protected account where there are certain receipts that are excluded from the commission. So I think that this proposal has improved the system that exists and we are socially sensitive, we make sure that we don't bury the court and that we don't burden it and cause these new backlogs that we certainly wouldn't be welcome at the moment that we're doing all the work and to speed up the proceedings and to remove these items to a decent level that we're not solved. Also, what is important to say here is that we relieve employers who today have an obligation to implement the obligation to do so whether, when there is a rightful decision or when there is another act that requires the implementation of the exercise. We're now saying it's all going to work out for the FINA, it doesn't have to do it anymore for the Pensions and the Health Service, it's doing it for the FINA, and that's why we finally have it in the system. Thus, the salary is continued to be protected 3/4 by the fact that this amount cannot exceed 2/3 of the average salary and that amount is higher as the average salary increases. As we can see, she's in the Republic of Croatia today, about 6,300 almost 6,400. So it seems to me that with all these changes, with all these novelties we have taken a very serious step in designing a new executive system. It is extremely important that I repeat these procedures once again, it is extremely important to return them to the jurisdiction of our courts in order to actually equalise our citizens with all citizens of other EU member states. So here we will hear the debate of course in the first reading, we are open to everything that is good and positive in the debate and what contributes to the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148743	I thank the minister. We've got nine replicas. First up, buddy Bull. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148744	Thank you very much. Ministers no longer have the meaning of this law of enforcement on real estate from 20,000 to 40,000 kuna for evictions. We have to remember that the executive law proposed by the MOST Club in 2017 gave to be 50,000 kuna amount, you were then defending it that both the interest of the creditors and debtors simply couldn't accept it, and now you've actually done the same thing. It's been two years, basically, to get to the same thing. And I think that's a shift, too, but it would be good if you increased this amount to 50,000 kuna when you were two years late. We see here that public notebooks are essentially court commissioners, which in Croatian legislation they are already at.../incomprehensible/... and of course here in this case it is most important to stress that there are no larger measures in this law So you can count them if there is. [[Intruder: Thank you]] What measures are radical to keep the perpetrators equal in Croatia as in other countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148745	Thanks, buddy Bull. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148746	Like I said, we're in the first reading until the second reading we'll consider these questions that you've opened. This proposal you spoke of, the amendment to the executive law that was at the time of the MOST coalition and the ruling majority, I took part in it, and we came together to those 20,000 that were then, but we're open to discussion and we're definitely open to seeing things for a second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148747	Now it's time for fellow Vucelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148748	Dear Minister Bosnjakovic, the proposal for the Executive Law shows that the executive mafia remains in the government of the Republic of Croatia. From 1996 to today, you've all changed in power, both of you and the third and the fourth, all but the Living Wall. The citizens are getting harder, the number of blocked has doubled, the debt has become tenfold, the law has been passed so far, you and your colleagues from the SDP are now four executive laws, you've had over 20, you've had dozens of amendments and additions to the law. I have to tell you that the only thing that's improved is your bills. If you worked for the people, the people would stay in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148749	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148750	Thank you very much. Okay, here's your political stance against the Executive Act. I'll tell you that all the countries in the world have a system of performances, that system comes to a stage where demand is not being fulfilled voluntarily and that's why I've particularly stressed here. In an orderly society, we all have to be careful when we take on our obligations, when we take out our loans, when we buy things so we can be able to do it together tomorrow and pay off, then no one with the tip will be in trouble. A whole series of measures we've taken to make things easier for the perpetrators, for those who have been blocked. The state, as you know, is linear to all those who have been in debt for more than three years and have been blocked for three years, linearly fired everyone's claim because it's the only thing that's possible for 10,000 kunas, so the number of blockeds is shrinking. And we believe through these other measures that it will fall further down.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148751	Comrade Grmo, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148752	Dear Ministers in response to you, you said one inaccuracy, namely the Bridge has proposed an amendment, 50 thousand kuna if the amount of debt means that it cannot be carried out to this amount, you then refused the amendment and then you said it was some kind of best ratio to protect the interests of both creditors and debtors. The government now proposes after two and more years, two and something, it proposes 40,000. What changed in that period, that's what interests me? And I think that all of us, we're trying to fix the situation with these amendments to the executive law, but I think the concept has been missed and we're not going to achieve anything with this bill either. We need to get out of the system of executions and out of public notebooks, they're some kind of tycoons that have profited precisely on other people's accidents, and I think the concept is missing. And in the presentation, I'm going to present what the Bridge's position is.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148753	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148754	Thank you very much. Anyway, I don't think the concept has been missed. We can't throw out at the FINA or the public notebooks at this point what many people want because, as I said here in the introduction, we would then have the courts, we would have with 350 thousand unsolved cases related to litigation and all of these others come back to a high number, and we didn't want to have that anymore, so as to this whether it's 40,000 or 50,000, we'll discuss it in two readings and we'll see where we're going to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148755	Comrade Alexic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148756	Thank you. Dear Minister Bošnjaković. I have already proposed several amendments to the executive law and amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, this new proposal will not help the blocked debtors but rather be something better for future enforcement procedures so I will insist on those proposals that I have so far. We know what it's about to limit the tight interest rate to the principal's height, change the bill order to charge the principal first, then tighten the interest, ban the real estate that's based on the debt from an unfair loan. We now have the power to establish 150,000 loans with unfair contractual provisions and, according to EU Court of Justice C 407/18, in such loans, the real estate should not be implemented until the judicial procedure is completed, until the unfairness of the contractual provisions is established, we also have 200 thousand euros and kuna loans with unfair interest. So, I'm going to insist on everything I've insisted on so far, and I hope you'll finally accept some of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148757	Thank you. Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148758	We have already discussed the interest advocate and, as far as interest is concerned, they are regulated and orderly payments to the Law on Mandatory Relations. I think there are interest rates in relation to religious debt relations, and they're fine because if I'm in your debt, I use your money that you can't use at the same time, and on the other hand, you're in damages and damages are corrected by interest. If we find some kind of model that we wouldn't damage a believer to introduce some sort of balance between a believer and a debtor, we're willing to talk, but I've never seen it on stage before.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148759	Comrade Sagar, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148760	Thank you. The Honorable Ministers. So in your opening statement, you said, our citizens are not equal to EU citizens. Unfortunately, you said that in the context of this law, and unfortunately that's true in many segments. My question is, since you said yourself that it is returning to the courts precisely from that fact, are you aware as a minister of danger that many citizens who have left the country for this very reason they are blocked, because they have no business here now being in danger of being blocked by accounts in countries where they are currently working? And on the other hand, I don't agree with your claim when you're talking, I agree in this part when you say that everyone needs to meet their obligations, which they signed, but the same thing is that it has to be done by the state. What about thousands of double-crossed workers whose state didn't stand up for protection? It's their rights, and in that sense, we disagree. And finally just one more question, when we're talking about the Mandatory Relations Act, how can you explain to me why that 3%-to-point supplement goes to the average interest rate, why is it exactly 3%?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148761	Minister's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148762	There is a verdict here by the EU court in two cases that clearly indicate that solutions made by public notebooks that the EU does not accept them as an act of judicial authority. And we must therefore change this situation in order for our citizens to truly be equal with other citizens, other citizens of other EU member states. As far as interest goes, that's one particular question. You know how interest is made and you know how it's basically calculated. Therefore, this law speaks of the order of payment, it is even with the Law on Mandatory Relations, and when we go into interest, we would have to touch the Law on Mandatory Relations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148763	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148764	Thank you, Mr. President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The SDP representative club has proposed to you a balanced model related to interest payments, and please consider it once again by which 50% of the debt amount would definitely relate to the principal and 50% to costs and interest. This would protect the believer, but would allow the debtor to pay off the debt again. We've done a calculation based on the protected amount of pay, there's real opportunities for a whole series of credits that when they come into service and charge from pay they'll never be paid back just because of the amount of interest they're participating in. However, I would warn you once again, you did not answer Mr. Alexic's judgment 407/18, which was brought in June, and I will read it to you. The court which decides on the proposal to implement the mortgage agreement must have the possibility either on a consumer's proposal or on official duty to examine whether the provisions contained in that contract are unfair. Will you put that in the final proposal? The law, is it the decision of the EU court? [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148765	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148766	I know about your SDP Club proposal and we're going to further analyze it before the second reading because it's really saying that it's a payment that this sits down to cut off interest, and part that goes to the main. As far as this verdict is concerned, the court still has the possibility when someone asks for the basis of an open procedure, when it means someone asking for this order to be postponed, to wait until then, the court still has the authority to terminate the case, but that depends on the case to the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148767	Dear fellow Luc-Polanc, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148768	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have stated in your opening statement that this law remains public notebooks in the process of enforcement, all for reasons that we do not yet have additional burden on the court. However, I would like to ask you if, at the same time, when the bill came about whether it was being considered in a way that the backlogs of a million and some items on today's 300,000 were reduced by the fact that the minor inflow of the case, therefore it was not quite the impression that the judges had accelerated the work or that something in the work itself improved as much as the inflow of the case has been reduced, and on the other hand we have the offenders who have now entered the system of municipal courts. So, they're now available for work in the performances. In addition, it must also be taken into account how much, that every public notary who performs the subject will have to do the same case now and the judge, so it doesn't make any sense to me where you see the court as being relieved. That is why the book’s participation is necessary. [[- Intruder. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148769	Thank you. Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148770	You see, if I were to design the system now and say that we're going to remove both the notebook and the FINU, I'd probably like a lot of them. However, I have a responsibility to arrange the system for it to be sustainable. At this point when we in the courts, last year we have almost 1,200,000 cases, if we add 400 and 500 or 600,000 cases to them, we would then create chaos, we don't want to, we don't have the right to do that. And that's why we're going to follow the system and we're going to follow the tides over the next few years as it comes in if it's set up, if these numbers are set up, then maybe we can talk about it. However, these jobs that FINA and the notebook will do are very complex jobs and we can't put that on the judge right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148771	Comrade Stier, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148772	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the government is really making an effort to resolve or at least try to alleviate the problem of costing this executive process too. I welcome both your willingness and your openness to see possible and the models to resolve this interest issue, or the relationship of the principal interest as it goes in order and ratio, because if you want to see one democratic perspective, it is clear that the debts must be paid, it is clear that the interest must also be resolved in order to solve the damage that has been done, but also at the moment when in the capitalist world there are very low interest, somewhere even negative would not be good if, apart from solving the damage that someone is going and earning someone else's trouble. So your openness to reconsider how much space there is, I think you should say hello. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148773	Here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148774	Your Honor, I can only repeat once again that until the second reading we will specifically address the issue of interest but there are a whole series of issues on how to regulate it, and perhaps the question of the height of the legal tightening interest, we need to see it in fact, and regarding the economic moment in which we are located, related to the financial stability at which the Republic of Croatia insists, concerning our journey, regarding the introduction of the EUR. So there are certain criteria everywhere, certain criteria that we need to meet. The executive system must be designed so that it is balanced between the interests of the perpetrators, to be as painful as possible for him as possible, but also for the executive to come in one quick way and actually realize his claim as he has. Because if it wasn't so I don't know who would come to Croatia if he wasn't sure that some kind of claim would take him so long I don't know how long or won't be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148775	And the last replica of the esteemed colleague Glavak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, we were witnesses, and last year when the government made a kind of effort to facilitate our accomplished citizens, so some colleagues said it happened three times, I think this is already seven times that it's trying to change the law, that it's trying to get out to meet our citizens, but I think maybe we should remind ourselves of the structure of the blocked citizens, you probably have it. And how it actually made it easier for the citizens last year, because according to the data from FINE August 2018. - In 2019, however, about 24,000 are less blocked. And I also welcome the facts and efforts to take into account some of the proposals that are coming to simplify this whole process and, of course, make it cheaper for those people who are in these procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148777	Here's your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148778	This is a law that will act in the future, so compared to all those people who have been blocked, we, you said well last year you passed a set of laws that we helped these people. We today have nearly 70,000 citizens less blocked than it was, which is the consequence of these laws, so I think the government has hit those measures. And one measure still lives in some way, and that is simply consumer bankruptcy. We have almost 80,000 cases in the courts and which in the next period will also lead to a reduction in the number of blocked citizens. But this is one system that will act pro futuro and I think we hit this system and we just balanced the interests of both creditors and debtors.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148779	My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148780	Thank you, Mr. President. In addition to this item of the agenda, the Club of Representatives of the SDP is looking for a 10 minute break, and allow me to explain the reasons for this break. The bill that is now in front of us is bad. That's what everyone said, the professional public said, the representatives of the debtors' associations said, the representatives of associations that gather and the creditors, so employers because they will neither protect the debtors nor protect the creditors, will only create additional costs and burden the work of the judicial institutions. I'll give you just one example, a year ago we set out in a fire department that my predecessor from the HDZ Club was about to help the blocked. But what happened? What happened? A large number have been blocked after a year since the fire strike because nothing else has been tracked down again. And you know the difference? By contrast, according to the new law that we passed a year ago, when you submit a new proposal for implementation, you must give one advance, one advance which has already created additional costs charged by FIN in the amount of 80 million kuna that will be poured on debtors under the provisions of that law. We said we'd help someone, and you know how we helped? We've created an extra cost for them. This will also happen with this law because the measures are embedded in it, precisely those relating to the collection of cash demand, but we will also bury the courts because any action that is done by the public notary after it will have to be re-applyed to the court. This is, I have no other word and I have no other description, no garden or past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148781	Thank you. Is anyone else picking up? If not, we'll continue at 10:00 and 15 minutes. MEETING IN 10.05 HOURS [[CONTINUATION AFTER THE MEETING AT 10:17 A.M.]] If not, I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party and Solidarity and Independent Representatives, esteemed colleague Rechim Varda, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148783	... Access... [[The speaker is not enabled.]] let us write off all debts or at least in principle, given the number of articles of 404 in this law, and in relation to the time available, in principle something to say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What would the pensioners say on this bill? In fact, it is known that pensioners in the largest number regularly comply with their obligations and have at least the debtors by the structure of the pensioners. If it's a debt, let's say for HRT, then you could say populistly, let's cut the subscription, cut the subscription, or at least to the ones in relation to some kind of censorship. But it's going to go to the budget again. Someone's got to settle those costs. And then we'll get back to the pensioner and the pension budget position. So, colleagues and colleagues, I borrow money, if it's a normal interest, so not a loan shark, not a vegetable, so give me back my money. You bought a cell phone, so who tells you I have to spend on impulses? What is the necessary means? Or is it fashion? Someone needs it. And I'm not paying the teleoperer's expenses. My pensioners would say the following. Let's help the debtors, given the number and mass in the performance, reduce the costs of the execution, preserve the dignity of the debtor, ban the operations during the winter period, ensure the contradiction of the procedure, what is most important to me as a lawyer in this entire system. Let's get right to the debtor to plead. Maybe he settled the debt. Perhaps in another way, in agreement with the believer, he can settle his debt. That's what my pensioners would say, and I think that this system proposed with all the improvements that will definitely come out of the amendment, and my club will probably when we work out all these 404 articles or with some amendment, or we'll support the amendment no matter what side of the assembly it comes from, if it's about improvement. But it's basic, you're obliged, you've made a commitment, and you have to settle that obligation. The state can only do what it does with this bill to preserve its dignity and reduce its cost and provide it with a contradictory procedure. On the Committee on Legislatives, there was a question, which is a contradictory procedure. So we're not all lawyers. Very simply, we give both parties in the process to plead. So far, that was not the case and it was the biggest problem that the debtor was getting the upper hand, and he didn't even know that he owed it, and FINA was taking it off. Now it's being disabled and the court is actually taking over the whole thing. The public notebooks are only the assistants of the court, and as soon as you challenge the claim, you state the complaint, you come to court and the court solves it. Second, we've limited the cost. As far as I'm concerned, the government will set that cost in the final line, but we can limit the government in that part by amendment, the maximum or the minimum, whatever we want. Second, therefore, only in principle on the bill. We've improved the delivery provisions for the debtor. This, therefore, falls into the same contradictory procedure. So far, that wasn't the case. And the public notebook actually, what does he do? He receives a proposal from the believers, the law says to the executive, I now speak layian language and invites the debtor to fulfil his obligation within 15 days, or to manifest or dispute the demand within that time, and to actually reach the court. So it gives him a chance to manifest himself. At the very end of the line, we're also giving him a chance to make a deal with the believer. Gives him that chance. That wasn't the case so far. In short, I'm... In principle, five thick pages wrote, but I'll shorten the debate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] My club, our club thinks the solutions offered are good. I can be better. I'd like to invite you colleagues to the second reading, to prepare the amendments for the second reading. This club will support every amendment, I repeat, no matter which side it comes from if it's about improving the system and nothing more. We believe that the proposed system compared to the previous 25 changes is aimed at improving the position of debtors, however, I have only one remark. If I have understood Article 116 of the bill correctly, you have 9 items there and paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 are repeated in the text of paragraphs 4, 5 and 6. Well, it seems to me too much. Same text. So nomotechnical remark. But in short, in any case, the club will support this bill in the first reading and in the second reading what I said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148784	Here's your friend, Thunderbolt.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148785	Thank you, Mr. President, on behalf of the MOST Club, I'm looking for a break to discuss, so after this presentation of fellow Varda, where he calls on the opposition as part of the ruling coalition to make its amendments. We have witnessed here in the Croatian Parliament on several occasions that we have made amendments to the legislative proposals of the ruling coalition that have not been accepted. Likewise, when the government of the Most and HDZ already came to an end, we gave 10 amendments. Some of these amendments are now in this proposal, and I was talking to the Minister about asking for the sum of 50 thousand kuna and then it was said that 20 thousand kuna is something that is rational, now the government itself is proposing after the past two years 40 thousand kuna. And what I would have said most controversially, should be said that this system is laid out so that neither the creditors nor the debtors of it ultimately profited from it but was profited by those who are intermediaries, who have become real tycoons of this executive procedure and these are public notaries. I do not agree with the Minister that they cannot be removed from the executive procedure, it is quite possible, we have an example of neighbouring Slovenia where it works very well and where we do not have as many problems as we have in Croatia. I call on all colleagues who will participate in this debate today to consider how in Croatia we can have more compassion for dogs or cats than for Croatian citizens who are under the burden of action. We can't change the executive law every little bit, we should think about changing the concept, if we don't change the concept, I don't think anything will change for those who are affected by these things, which are in a difficult situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148786	I approve of the break, of course we continue at 10.40 hours. It's 10.29 p.m. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.40 HOURS]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148788	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for a new executive law that we have already heard a lot from the minister himself, and we have also heard some views.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148789	My colleague Jelkovac, just a minute. Please, colleagues, my colleague is speaking. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148790	Thank you. Some attitudes from the clubs. I would first of all do a cross-section that has happened with the Implementing Law so far, so the first Implementing Law was passed in 1996 in independent Croatia, then a new Implementing Law was adopted in 2010 together with the Law on Public Executors, and these two laws should have been the basis of a new executive system in which public perpetrators should have played a fundamental role. However, this has not happened, and in fact, the 2010 law has never entered into force in most of the provisions. The third Implementing Act was adopted in 2012 and was governed by the procedure for the forced pursuit of the search and procedure of voluntary judicial and public records of the search, together with the Law on the implementation of the law on cash law, constitutes a legislative framework for the implementation of the extrajudicial exercise carried out by FINA to the greatest extent possible. And because of all the shortcomings that have been seen so far in the application of the existing legal framework, and also because of the harmonisation of the Implementing Law with other laws, above all for the simplification and efficiency of the executive procedure itself, and of course protecting the dignity of the perpetrators, the new Implementing Law is proposed. The most recent amendments to the executive law that we have had have improved the status of debtors and this shows how socially sensitive this government is. With these latest changes, we have introduced that the only real estate is excluded from the performance, that there is no implementation of the property for a debt where the principal is less than 20 thousand kuna, and the court has been given the tools that, even if the principal is greater than 20 thousand kuna, do not allow the execution if it is unfair. A newspaper was also introduced where an inexhaustible part of the salary or pension was increased at that income, but no more than 2/3 of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. So already with the latest changes, this government has shown how important it is to address the problem to the greatest extent possible and the problem blocked. And then the minister announced the establishment of a working group that will propose, within one appropriate time, a new draft implementing law that will address in the best possible way, all the problems that have been identified, above all, which will redefine both the role of public notebooks and the role of FINA, and also address the costs of the executive process itself. As far as this current bill of law is concerned, I think it has really met all the goals that the task force has put before it and I think it is important to stress that all those to whom the executive procedure applies, of course, participated in the task force. This proposal for an enforceable law shall initiate the enforcement procedure on the basis of a credible document by submitting a proposal to the competent court, as has already been said and the court will be a general and regular competent authority, but, as a result of the discharging of the courts, public notaries shall be detained as commissioners of the court. A few remarks were made here, and it seems to me that from everything I've heard, it's the only and biggest remark to this bill. I would say of course that we would always like to bring ideal solutions, but sometimes it's really not possible given the objective state we have in the system. The Minister also stressed that at this point in time, given the burden of courts and the number of executive cases we still have in the Republic of Croatia by restoring jurisdiction completely to courts, excluding public notebooks completely from this process, we would re-commit the courts, the proceedings would be long-term which we certainly do not want, we want the proceedings to last for a short period of time, to lead effectively, and thus to meet what is the meaning of this procedure itself. Of course, the minister also said when the conditions for such a change are met, it is certain that this will happen, but at this point we are not objectively in that position. As regards the further sequence of proceedings, it is the public notaries who will carry out one part of the procedure where they will call on debtors to declare the debt, to dispute it. In that case, he goes back to court in a case where there is no dispute against demand or part of demand, the public notebooks will draw up a draft draft decision and return by electronic means to the court where the judge will make a decision to which the perpetrators also have the right to appeal. What is also important to say is that the role of FINA is kind of redefined, it will be the one to implement the tasks. For the sake of a more efficient procedure, electronic communication is introduced but also forms which will really have a significant impact on the reduction of the costs of the procedure itself, are improving delivery provisions because after 2 unsuccessful delivery, it is carried out through an ad panel with notices sent to the mailbox or to the personal mailbox of the E-Citizens. They remain in force of those provisions that show how sensitive we are to the perpetrators but therefore we must be aware that the executive law will never and can never be a social law, it is primarily one tool for the forced achievement of demand, and in this bill they are indeed the elements of social sensitivity if we can thus say that which protects above all the dignity of the perpetrator himself. The only real estate is still or is not possible in the winter months, and this becomes a rule, however, it should be said that it is also increasing the amount of the principality of the demand for whose settlement is not allowed to be applied to 40 000 kn and is also expanding the circle of those receipts and compensations that are excluded from the application. What is most important to me is that a major step has been made in reducing the costs of the process, and I think it is also very important for the perpetrators as the one at which this cost is actually being taken down. Here is what I would say in the end that it is certain that this law is in addition to those laws that we have previously passed, which is primarily the Law on the implementation of the implementation of the law on monetary assets and amendments to the Law on consumer bankruptcy adopted in 2018, one of the laws that actually seeks to facilitate the position of debtors in the Republic of Croatia and in one dignified way towards them still achieve the purpose that this law must have in society, which is that every search still has to be settled. So we must also protect the position of the credentials. What is important to say is that compared to last year, the number of blockeds so far shows that all the laws so far have also had their effect, the debt of the citizens from the basis for payment is smaller by around 27 billion kuna and I think that in any case we can be satisfied with these effects although, of course, those who have fallen into the position of the performers will certainly never be satisfied with the bill's proposal because the law protects above all both the creditors and the religious demand that must be charged but I think it is important that in some way we have achieved a certain balance. The HDZ Club will certainly support this bill and we believe that it will significantly increase the efficiency of the procedure once it is implemented, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148791	Thank you. Now it's the Club of Representatives of the SDP and esteemed colleague Peja Grbin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148792	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Often in this House I spoke about the fact that in Croatia we deal disproportionately with the consequences and disproportionately little about the causes. That's how it is with problems blocked and problems solved. The best example is that my predecessor from the HDZ club, the prominent representative Jelkovic, said that as a consequence of the law we passed last year, was unblocked in Croatia by a whole series of debtors, according to data from the FINA, it was about 21,000 people who owed about 900 million kuna, but from that number unblocked, within just a year, so the law began to apply if I didn't cheat in August of last year, here we are in September, in just a year, 1/3 was blocked again. And those 1/3 who are again blocked because of the measures provided for by the law governing the implementation of the funds now owe more because the creditors also had to pay advances for the re-implementation and the exercise which, of course, according to the rules of the executive and litigation procedure, is borne by a debtor who did not settle the request of the creditors. So the creditors have a loss, the debtors have to pay more. And none of that benefited and why? Because we deal with the consequences, not the causes of the problems. The colleagues who spoke before me and were critical of this law correctly pointed to one of the biggest problems arising from this law, which is the fact of the order of reckoning, or when the debtor pays and the amount is not enough to settle the entire debt. I'll give you one example. I think each of us can imagine some citizens receiving about 4,000 kuna. Unfortunately, such citizens have many. Out of the salary of 4000 kuna, 1000 kuna are the means on which the implementation can be carried out. If, for example, the debt due to some loan for the purchase of an apartment or something other than that debtor amounts to more than £200,000, according to current rules, that debtor will never be able to repay the debt through the performance and do you know why? Because it's a tight interest amount of £200,000, 13,000. Its purpose is to remove 1,000 kunas per month, which in a year is 12,000 kuna and not only does it not pay back the debt, at the end of each year, he owes more, therefore colleagues and colleagues, please forget the ideological fences, let us forget the fact that it is a proposal initiated by the Club of Representatives of the SDP, adopt the proposal that we have referred to in such cases 50% of the paid and 50% on interest and expenses. In this way, we will satisfy what you said to the ministers, which is that the believer still has a certain fee for using his money because I often repeat it, and it is often forgotten, not only are the debtors of the damaged side, but they are often also believers. Just imagine a situation where someone is seeking compensation because someone else hurt him, hurt him, or otherwise hurt him, such as domestic violence or violence among neighbors or any other cause that does not result from consumer relations, and we must protect him. So we're protecting him because he's being assured that interest is being paid, but we're protecting the debtor because we're allowing him to pay back in this hypothetical situation that I've described, because you can only imagine the situation, 4000 kunas of receiving and the debt of 200,000 kuna, and we all know at least one or two people who have found themselves in such a situation. Under current regulations, this person cannot repay his debt, he cannot because he will forever pay only interest and that is not, must not and is totally unacceptable to the purpose of the executive system. That's what I'm gonna start with because that's the key. It's about the consequences, sorry, it's about the cause and not just the consequences. And now we're going to the matter of this law itself that says that in the case where the debtor has failed to comply with his obligations, we're going to settle the same by force and yes, that's the fact. There is no state in the world that does not have such a law, there is no state in the world that does not regulate the way the demand that the debtor did not want, could, wanted to do whatever he wants, but this system can be better, this system can be worse, that system can have a human face and may be peeling skin. Unfortunately, this system that is here is not going to be any of it, and at the same time it will be all because it has one problem in it and that is the problem of the lotion that arises in determining the purpose itself. Most citizens in the Republic of Croatia think and I will join them and say in good works justifiably that public notebooks no longer play their part or have no place in the executive procedure. At the time of the introduction of the public-booking performance, we did have huge delays in Croatian courts, but I carefully promoted Justice... for a judiciary that shows that the inflow of cases to Croatian courts is no longer as great as it used to be. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The inflow to Croatian courts is not even comparable to some other Member States, so we are not by the number of residents if the number of cases is seen, at the top of the inflow of the case. So we can now let ourselves do this job to the end and do this job right and that is to completely exclude public notebooks from the executive system. If it isn't for me to just sting, I'm going to have to say a little commendation. Of course, we are pleased that you have taken a step towards the electronic performance, or that you have gone to neighbouring Slovenia and seen how he has solved this problem and accepted good practice, and that is good, thus reducing costs, thus reducing the pressure on the debtor, thus making it easier for the believer that he does not have to hire a lawyer and creating himself additional costs, that some things can be done alone. However, if you have already defined that the exercise will be submitted in forms, you have dramatically facilitated the work of those who, on the basis of that pattern, will make a decision, in this case a solution and therefore there is no need for such complications as you will look at now, you come to court through the form and from the court you are asking for a solution on the issue, this case is being brought to court. After that, the court assigns the case to the public notary, so we have one store, the court sends something to the public notary, then the public notary studies the case, decides whether it will continue to act, contacts the party. We have another store, if the party pays, the procedure is over, if the party does not pay, the party can object, it must then be shown by the executive, it is another good action and contradiction that should certainly be commended. If the complaint was sent by the archduke, excuse me, if the archduke gave the evidence, the case goes to court and it's quite similar as it has been so far except we have one store more and it's the original address of the court. However, if there is no objection, the public notary does not make a decision on the performance, but prepares the draft and then sends the draft to the court. We have one public notebook shop, we have a delivery and then we have the fact that the court by the provisions of the article. In 44th of this law, he must re-examine this subject. If we know that about 2/3 of the cases are returned, either by appeal or by the fact that the debtor will not carry out his obligation, then we see that in the end of these 500 000 cases that the Honored Minister spoke of, at least 2/3 will end up in court again. The court will again have to deal with 2/3 cases, or to act on a complaint because the debtor has disputed his claim or acted on a solution and made a solution, to carry out further proceedings, to generate new costs, to delay him. And if it were worse, we'd set deadlines for the public notebooks and not for the court. When the court gets that solution or a draft prepared by a public notary, the court will be able, as has happened many times before, to keep the case in the drawer because it is too crowded for them, not to be able to generate new costs for the executioner in the form of interest and yet make life difficult for the believer because his claim simply cannot be charged. So I'm saying what you wrote here is not good. You're headed in the right direction, you may have even had good intentions but you haven't realized them all the way. So on the one hand, we worry about the causes of the problem and, on the other hand, when we come to the consequences of the problem, we complicate the situation. Dear colleagues and colleagues can therefore not support this proposal. If you want to continue with this law at all, and we of the SDP Representatives Club believe that he is in this form so much guilty that it is questionable whether it can be corrected without going to work again, for another reading you must prepare something completely new. And this new one has to be decided, either you leave it with public notebooks which we think is not good, or you will completely return it to a court that won't have that many problems precisely because of these provisions concerning e-delivery and treatment. Let me look back in this debate on a few problems with a law that I think might even be corrected. First, delivery, we have a system of e-Citizens, every delivery for every citizen who uses the system of e-Citizens must go through its user compartment. If we go towards electronic delivery between courts, notaries, lawyers, etc., we also go to citizens who use the system of e-Citizens. Let's make their lives easier so that they don't have to wait for mail, that they don't have to worry, but that they can get it through their user compartment. When we talk about those provisions, it seems to me that it is the article 145, 146, and 147 that speaks of the housing of the perpetrators. Three years ago, we discussed it, then we showed you. It is not possible for residential care to apply solely to the collection of financial claims. On the one hand, they're protecting someone who took out a loan to buy an apartment and on the other hand you're not protecting a person who, for example, didn't take out a loan but was hired and could no longer pay for the rent of that apartment. With all due respect but their consequences, their lives are the same. Both of them, according to the provisions of this law, must come from that apartment, but one company protects and the other you won't. Why? Because this guy took a loan and couldn't pay for it, this guy took an apartment and couldn't pay for it. You can't act differently in the same situation. It's not human and it's not constitutional. And lastly, two things, firstly I pointed to that in the replica, referring to the decision of the European Court of Justice in Case C407/18. The decision of June of this year states that the court which decides on the proposal to implement the mortgage agreement must have a future either on a consumer's proposal or on official duty to examine whether the provisions contained in that act are unlawful. So we need to enable the Court of Justice, the Court of Justice, so the court that is conducting the procedure to take into account the matter when it comes to the mortgage loan concluded between the trader and the consumer, that is our obligation under EU law. And if we don't put that into law under the second practice of the EU court in the Köbler case against Austria, the state will be responsible for the damage. So read that decision and install it in this bill. And lastly, I would like to show you that you have a little ambitiously predicted that this law will enter into force on 1 January 2020. Everyone who spoke before me, including the minister himself, said this was important, that this was a major change. We're introducing a new way of delivering, a new way of deciding. It's September 19th and we're only in the first reading of this law. At best, this law can only be passed by the end of October. After that, various ministries have to bring a whole series, and here in one article there are 10, 15 regulations and other sublegal acts. And you expect that, after that, it can enter into force on January 1st and apply in practice. Yesterday on the board, a colleague who works as a bankruptcy manager described what it looks like in practice in bankruptcy proceedings. The system's been revived and then they've implanted a limit that the mail it sends can't be greater than 5mb. In today's communication, limiting the contributions to 5mb is the easiest thing to say is funny and it can't work. Don't let that happen here, if you insist on these solutions delay them, let them take effect at least on 1 March if not later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148793	Thank you. Let's move on. Now it's on behalf of our esteemed colleague, Marin Škibola, on behalf of the NLM Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148794	Thank you, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Ministers with State Secretarys, MPs and MPs. The new Executive Law was certainly often the subject of debate in the Croatian public, Croatian citizens were really interested in the issue. It has often been discussed how to solve the problem of the in charge, how to solve the problem of the blocked. And here we have today's proposal for the Republic of Croatia -- there are close presidential elections -- there are close parliamentary elections -- in the year that holds the elections, we have a new executive law. Whether this new Executive Law is rooted in solving the problem or overly affecting certain changes is now up to us to judge, it is also for Croatian citizens to judge. However, we are currently going to learn about certain problems. It should be said that HDZ and SDP would never consider making any changes to the Executive Law that the public did not press, that certain initiatives did not push. Let us only remember the previous presidential elections, after the first round when Croatian citizens gave great support to those candidates who advocated in charge and who put it first, means, evictions, executions, etc. in the second round, and Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic and Josipovic, they all kind of monopolized the topic, and they all said in a campaign that they were the ones who would solve the issue of the Executive Law, that they were the ones who would solve the problem of those in charge, who would solve the problem of those who were done. And here, what happened? Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic won those elections, however, how much effort has she made to make those changes? I know that it cannot necessarily initiate changes to the law as the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, however, by means of instruments it has as president, initiate certain things, it can be pawned, it has a large media space, it can organise frequent conferences, lobby with the Government to get rid of it. But it wasn't like that, I didn't notice. Nor did those who have often opposed this executive law notice that Kolinda Grabar Kitarovic has done something significant about it. As far as this new executive law is concerned, it should be said that in this task force for the new Executive Act, there were about 20 members, and de facto there were, in fact, 90% of all religious representatives. So maybe we had an association that represented debtors. We also had an association, an executive uprising that today shared with parliamentary representatives materials that significantly advocated amendments to the executive law and which are extremely active on this plan. That at one point they entered that task force and after the 1st meeting were expelled from that task force. I asked them why it happened, they told me, that when they proposed to kick out the FINA, to throw out the public notebooks, that you in the ministry didn't want to talk to them anymore. I don't know if it's true now, I don't know if it's true, you, Minister, will have a chance to say if it's not true. However, at the entrance to HS, they gave me, behold, their symbol, the symbol of that association, the Executive Uprising. Their symbol is a debt noose in order to sympathise with all those who are in debt slavery in the Republic of Croatia and told me to give it to you, so here, Minister, I will give you that symbol, don't be offended. ... It's just because of them, so it's that we're solidarity with this association that's extremely active. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] When we talk about the judgments of the European Court of Justice which were on the subject of the Executive Act, meaning the European Court of Justice of Luxembourg, I find one thing very disturbing. And it bothered me that this judgment of the European Court of Justice was going in this context that public notebooks cannot be competent in the executive procedure of foreign natural and legal persons, however, according to domestic natural and foreign persons, the European Court does not see the problem there. Therefore, positive discrimination against domestic natural and legal persons according to the European Court's position is permitted, however, according to foreign natural persons, e, this is a problem, it is not allowed, so public notaries cannot be competent there. I am bothered by these double criteria of European institutions. Certain European institutions, I must say. The European Court must represent all EU citizens. The European Court of Justice cannot therefore suggest that public notebooks are allowed to be responsible for the conduct of domestic natural and legal persons without having jurisdiction over foreign persons. A similar situation was also the issue of the law on integrity, the law I proposed in HS. So, there was no problem with the European Court of Justice that these institutions were operating illegally in the Republic of Croatia, we had a large number of tasks in relation to these unauthorized cooperatives from Styria, but their problem is when the law goes to sanction this business. And they say, you are doing discrimination between domestic and foreign credit institutions, however, we are not with this law that was lex specialis, we have solved the problem of domestic unauthorized creditors, we have solved the problem of foreign unauthorized creditors in the form of these RBA cooperatives, and then in that judgment the European Court of Justice inaugurates these articles within the law and creates a problem. However, in the judgment itself, he will not, in any part, touch that these cooperatives have acted illegally, so if he has already ordered that the law be amended, it means that it is in line with European law, I really have no problem with it, it is the simplest thing to do if there is political will and if these people want to protect themselves. However, I have problems if this European Court sees this discrimination and does not see the illegal business of these credit cooperatives, it does not see that these credit cooperatives have not checked their creditworthiness, it does not see that these credit cooperatives have violated many of the laws of the Republic of Croatia. That's what I had to say and here, from this place, Mr. Bošnjak, you said there was a working group on this matter, for the amendments and additions of that law, to comply with European law because we have a problem today. People come to me, they say, some judges don't want to follow the law anymore. And the errands are coming again, the raids are coming again. So let's change as quickly as possible, these people need it, let's do it and sometimes comply with European law, you said there was a task force, so let us know what this task force has done so far. Is there a political will to change that? Or don't you care about those people anymore? The new Implementing Law increases the number of actions in the very executive procedure with undefined deadlines, which could lead to an increase in debt due to tight interest rates if the process slows down. High-tight interest rates are one of the main generators of debt slavery. And that's a fact. So those high-ranking interest rates, they favor the executive mafia, and that's what the same respected professor Lovrinovic was talking about. And in fact these tight interest rates should be regulated more because they are so high in the Republic of Croatia and that they are suitable for this one interesting client group, I can't understand it. I can't understand that so much of our judiciary, that so much of our system has committed itself to these interesting structures, to this minority that benefits and most of the citizens who cry out for justice laws, most of the citizens who cry out for justice who cares about them, who cares about them. We're in a ping-pong situation between courts and public notebooks. So you've solved the issue of the public notary now, but it's not quite solved, you've solved it in a way that you've transferred jurisdiction to the courts, you've left it in the public notebook process. The fact is that this is delaying the whole process and we could eventually re-supply the debtors, so because they always have time for them because of these and interest, etc. Not to be too critical, not to be too critical, there are those changes that are positive, there are those changes that are positive. So it's a good thing you increase the number of receipts that are excluded from the performance, that's good. It's a good thing that there's an increase in the amount of demand that's not allowed to settle the real estate, so that's good, but it's not enough, it's not essential. I think it could have been much more rooted in these changes. The purpose of the current Implementing Law is not the actual collection of the existing debt of citizens, but rather the duty of a citizen is brought into the inability to pay off a real debt because the income through the number of fees is taken away by means of FIN, public notebooks, law offices, debt collection agencies, etc. So they should all be removed from the executive procedure if they're not necessary. I don't think they're necessary, so let's get them out of the executive procedure. So the point of this executive law is to make peace with the faithful and to make it easy for debtors to repay their debts. So it's not the point of the executive law to suit some groups that are attached to this executive law, and then that's their food chain, that can't be the point of the executive law. The point of the executive law should be to get people out of debt slavery and to charge the creditors, to charge the creditors, means to respect the same thing those creditors who gave their money and expect that money to come back, and that's fair enough, that's how it should be. But let's not burden the debtors with different non-existent costs that are only accumulated and then finally, in the end, neither the believers nor the debtors are there, they are not satisfied. Digitalisation of the whole process is important because it meets the effectiveness of the mass processing of the requirements. So the Executive Law must enable effective implementation of the performance which does not allow it so far. Modern information technologies would remove the long-term data collection necessary to decide on the Executive Procedure as they would be linked to court registers with all necessary registers of the procedure. Once again, less bureaucracy, less cost of the whole process. Therefore, for these reasons, we also consider, there is no need for any additional charges to be imposed on the whole of the procedure. The executive law is the black spot of our country, and these are some of the suggestions I made today that they feel they are restoring dignity to our people, that the ministers should consider them. It is a debt and must be paid, as I have already said, but it must be possible for it to be both repayable and not as was the case with the current law. And where this debt citizen is already turning into a life-long debtor. So that shouldn't be the goal of anyone being trapped in those debts, that these people can't function. People have their families, so it has a wide impact, after all, society as a whole, climate in society, on the system, on the economy. So the consequences are broad. The law must be effective in the finality, if the payment is made, the person is protected by law and not as the law so far that even enters into fundamental human rights and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Here I think these proposals are realistic, that they should be further considered in the second reading before you come with a final proposal before voting on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148795	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the Most Independent Lists, on behalf of which will speak the respected representative of Nikola Grmoy, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148796	Thank you, dear Vice President, dear colleagues and dear colleagues. In today's debate on the Government's proposal for an executive law, we are not only addressing each other but also addressing the entire army of people who, due to their lack of property, difficult life opportunities and different circumstances, have come into one situation that you would not wish for. As a result of the inability to pay off their loans, to pay the directors and other municipal and similar obligations, they have been thrown out by one forced debt collection mechanism that sells their assets, their money in bank accounts has been blocked and taken away from them every month. All of us who are going to participate in this debate today must show empathy for these people, and above all we must show that we have the will to make their difficult living position easier. First of all, we must understand that there is an enforcement procedure in some form in all regulated countries with a free market economy. It ensures that everyone who has provided a favor, sold a thing, did some work for it to be paid. Without that mechanism, without the purpose of the economy as we know it wouldn't work. So here I am talking about what is an objective need for the functioning of the modern economic system. The shortest said debts must be paid and the obligations carried out. But that medal has its other side, and the other side are debtors, doers. Unfortunately, Croatia's executive right has been treating these people as objects for years, not as entities of the executive procedure. My colleagues and colleagues, as I have already said at the break, is the real tragedy that we live in a country where we are willing to have mercy on dogs or stray cats, and we treat our neighbors and builders under every level of human dignity. The problem with performance reached its peak during a major recession which was officially recognised in Croatia only in 2008 and lasted longer than in any EU Member State, almost a decade. People suddenly found themselves on the street without a job, and after spending their savings they could no longer pay off the loans, they also found it difficult to pay for their directors and regular expenses of life. And while this was happening, someone or rather, some have created the system of performance as we know it today. The system in which the balance in the rights of the participants of the proceedings has been greatly violated. The system that was set up so that it ruined the debtors, and even the believers didn't get happy, but that's why the pirates in the system got their hands on it. To be perfectly clear, and I've also said that, that's what I mean by public notebooks. By handing over a large part of the country's executive proceedings in a cheap and reckless way, it can be said that the executive procedure and the tycoons of the privatisation were public notebooks. This is where the mess and the verse in the system is remembered, which is in effect all the time. So not so long ago in this country there were three executive laws at the same time, so you hang out in that system of performance when you're naturally found out, and some of them have been doing well, and they've got a good thing on other people's troubles and disagreements. And here we are now coming to this latest proposal of the Executive Act, which is being presented to us by the Government. I ask you colleagues and colleagues to read the opening arguments carefully. It is at the very beginning that our government boasts that it has come up with an idea to bypass the decision of the EU Court of Justice which makes it impossible for public notebooks to carry out their duties. They came up with a brilliant solution and declared the notaries to the commissioners of the courts, someone would say it's not a neck but a neck, and this is exactly the government's decision that directed the whole concept of the new executive law, and precisely because of this concept of major shifts it won't and can't be, that's what I mean now clear to everyone, and what the PR team of the Government and the Ministry of Justice will place in the media as positive steps of the law will not significantly help the perpetrators. And I think most of those who took part in the debate from the ranks of the opposition brought it out, and here's a colleague before me too. So MOST takes this kind of alibi proposal by viewing it as a whole and the continuation of the old bad concept can't agree. The ministry has again made minimal efforts, no other solutions exist in other countries have been considered at all, and nothing has smelled good since the start of this law. Let's remember very well about the work group that made the law. When the public sought the names of the people to be written by the Ministry of Justice, only the list of institutions and associations involved in the task force, and instead of specific names, concrete people were published only blank lines. I'm asking the question here, Minister, can we at least now get an answer to that question, who was all named and included in the making of a new Executive Act. I'm sure there's a lot of sound and familiar names. As you ministers would say, ‘Quod ab initiosum est non potet tractu temporis convalescere.’ in the translation ‘When the coat of arms is born, the time is not corrected’. And with this proposal, there is no discussion of the proposal or amendments that can fix this. So instead of trying to fix this irreparable article, I'd like to say what we stand for at the Most. The view of the MOST is that the system of enforcement should be fully different and so implemented by means of courts only, that unnecessary intermediaries and costs should be thrown out of the system of enforcement, that the system of communication of parties with the executive court will be established to the greatest extent by electronic means, and most importantly, we are in favour of an executive system that will be based on agreement between the creditors and debtors in good faith. Only such an executive system guarantees dignity to the debtors, but also an increased chance for creditors to fully collect their claims. So we could do as we did two years ago and give some amendments, of course we might do it in another reading, but I think it's an incorrigible repair. You need to change the concept, you've had plenty of time, I'm aware of the needs and some kind of fire measures, but we've had a lot of these fire measures and some minor improvements. You've had a lot of time to prepare the root changes to the executive law, but unfortunately, here you are not going in that direction. And here's our opposition to warn, and then we'll see what changes until the second reading, although I doubt that this kind of conjecture system can ever improve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148797	Thank you very much. The next club of MPs is that of the HDS, HSLS and HDSSB on behalf of which the respected representative Darinko Kosor will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148798	... I'll state our club's views. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] So on the one hand, I'd say we have an executive industry, on the other hand we have debtors. In the broader sense, the words include the agencies for the collection of the due claims and the notebooks and lawyers, normally and themselves creditors who are more trained than the debtors themselves as a rule. Here I exclude those debtors who deliberately remain in debt or legal persons engaged in such a way that they do not pay their bills. But we still have to consider that 95% of all debtors are citizens who can't meet their obligations. I must say in the introduction that this bill has at least 10 good things and better things than they had previous legal solutions, and I think that it should always be underlined and, technically, I think that the procedure itself will now be greatly facilitated. This must not be forgotten, this should be highlighted, but I must point out that in our opinion, four key things that interest the largest number of debtors are not changed in my opinion. Public notebooks, regardless of the fact that we are transferring executive tasks to the court in European experience, remain court associates. I think that's a worse solution than the one we've got today. Today we have it because at some point we felt that it would make it easier for the court to act, we are now coming ourselves that no decision by the public notary is valid beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. We're going back to what we had in the 1990s in court, and when we get back, we always have to get the job done by the end, never have to do the job half the time. We have public notebooks that are going on in fact with the same job, and I would even say with eased work because by changing certain laws, you've simplified the procedure, the forms of filling those forms, so they'll have less work to do, and they'll still have their own compensation. So it doesn't make any sense in my opinion, and that's what I've been saying for the last six months, which is why I organized a round table in the Croatian Parliament to keep the notebooks in the business. If there are fewer judicial advisers who usually solve these problems, a number of judicial advisers should be employed. We have statistical experience in the 1990s as many as one counselor can solve the case. You won't believe how much one counselor can handle it, I think with a small number of judicial advisors, not judges, we can lead to only courts doing the job. The second thing, legal fees remain the same. That's the same thing to say, so in all the conversations we've had and on the round table, we've discussed everything with lawyers except their fees. And the proposal in the law relating to the sale of real estate at the auction was raised from 20 thousand to 40,000, in my opinion it should be much larger than these and 20 and 40 thousand if there is no real estate in Croatia and even the least not worth at least 400 thousand kuna. If you're the least real estate, and we're starting to protect those most endangered who don't have 150 square-square apartments, but who have 30, 40 square-square apartments if for a 20-square long, and after this change of 40 thousand kunas can go to auction, and these apartments are then sold there at the end, maybe even for 1/3 values, it's certainly not a correct solution in this amount. And the fourth thing, it's about each other's ministry, but I think the government is acting as a whole, and that's especially the legal regulation of the collection agencies. That's out of the regulation of HANFA, I would even say out and out of the CNB itself is the CNB in one sentence only regulates the work of such agencies. I was making proposals six months ago, for our majority to settle this parallel to this law, for the Ministry of Finance to propose a law that will detailedly regulate the work of law enforcement agencies and put their activities in the jurisdiction of HANFA. Here I want to say the amount they've already taken over from the credentials is about 38 billion kuna, if it grows by 5 to 10 years, 100 billion kunas of debt will be mostly citizens, slightly less legal persons, but mostly citizens will be owned by several such agencies. We are a small country with a small number of citizens, unfortunately the number of citizens continues to decline, so all citizens who will be in debt will be obliged to some strange agencies with owners from the Czech Republic, Serbia, Slovakia for what I saw in the register, and what everyone in the towers is saying, and in fact, owners are the biggest creditors of telecoms and banks. So, through these indirect agencies, only balances are cleared, debts are transferred to such agencies, such agencies are harassing our citizens, they're not in the jurisdiction of the HAMFE, they're regulated in one sentence by the CNB, and I don't see why we as a state allow it. Now it's 38 billion, in five years it'll be 100 billion. These are four important things, there's still a lot of things we could talk about, all of which you've read the law, you've seen how fat it is, and I've done my best, so I've read it all over, 2/3 of the law actually refers to a visit to real estate and mobile citizens. So that's 2/3 of all articles, and 1/3 applies to everything else, so obviously the legislator is starting from the fact that in monetary terms, it's going to be worse to collect claims and that more of it has to go into real estate and movement, even predicting some huge car lagers, I don't know exactly where it's going to be, maybe at the fair, maybe it's some new purpose and actually that space in Zagreb. So we're starting to have 10,000 cars, our citizens' apartments somewhere on some lagers, and then we're going to sell it at auctions. So the law itself has 10 good things, first of all things that, in a technical sense, facilitate procedures, reduce from administration, throw out some of the forms that have been sought so far, regulate the maximum fee of FINE that has not been regulated so far, but the question is whether there will be any change for debtors. So the law is better than so far the legal solutions, but it hasn't solved these three most important things that need to be resolved by this law and we don't have a parallel law that.../incomprehensible/... agency to collect the due claims. I'd like to ask the minister, his associates, to consider these suggestions from our club until the second reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148799	Thank you very much. The next Club of Representatives is that of the CNS on behalf of which a respected representative of the Goddess Makar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148800	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The respected ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues, so this executive law we all expected for a long time, and he caused a lot of attention and only the Ministry of Justice put a lot of effort into it and worked on it for almost 2 years if not more than when it started to actually discuss it. It was the ministry, there were many conversations with various stakeholders, round tables, workshops, working groups, discussions were held through the media, and it's no wonder because it's really a very sensitive law. And we at the HNS have debated a lot in this law, because the issue of enforcement is not only a legal issue, it's not an economic issue, it's a social issue. We all know someone who has found himself close to us in an uninvited situation of debtors or perpetrators. It was a long time ago when there really couldn't be a job, when it was out of work, when there were various loans, when even in a very suspicious way, contracts were concluded and offered to sell different packages from telephones, to some loans, quick loans, there was everything. After that, the situation came that the debt should be paid back, the debt was often less than the cost of the payment. These people who have found themselves in such situations often did not even know how real their debt was until they got the upper hand or the constraint that they could no longer be paid and that they would open a protected bank account because they were sitting on the bank account and they could no longer be paid over the account and so on. Even worse, they found themselves when their debt was bought by the agency and what we are saying here and what in this law is really well proposed to regulate, and that is one dignity of the debtors where he must be first informed, your duty is to invite him to collect that debt by the agency still by the system of calling, insult, demeaning. It has been presented to us on several occasions, and indeed they are in line with EU legislation, they are doing their job, but is this the way to do it? It really should be seen who will control them because our executives, regardless of all the good that is proposed in this law, will be in a very, very difficult situation and in the situation that they, however, are not only belittled, harassed, literally, by verbal attacks on the phone and everything else that I have learned in the conversation with those debtors or perpetrators. I've already said it's really good that it won't be any more public notebooks that will send an account from the law firm and Finna's doing everything she can. The dignity here is now regulated, but this is what we should do. The price of the execution was extremely high, it is now limited, it is significantly reduced for those up to five thousand kuna and it is for every praise. Also, what's really good about this law is that they're exempt from the Christmas Day, Easter, regression, jubilee awards, convenient cash prizes, field logs and everything else, and it's been known that when Christmas cards are paid and we all expect it, and yet we'll still have for that Christmas to buy gifts to children and everything else, these people were also cut off, that I'm not telling you that there were often tears in the matter when the employer actually paid them off, and they didn't get anything from it. One good thing is to increase the performance or principal of the trade when the settlement is carried out through the real estate to 40 thousand kunas, that it is still placed there that from 1 November to 1 April there will be no eviction. I say a lot, there's a lot of good things, but we'd all like it not to come to that. But also, if in law we protect our debtor, we protect the doer, we still need to take care of the believer because it is the believer who gives something, it is the one who receives and he commits himself to something. I say, there are many situations where the debtor cannot honor what he signed or arranged with the believer. And that's why there needs to be one bilateral relationship, one relationship of agreement, and only when it can't be realised then you should be performing this further procedure of enforcement which is now run by FINA and everything should go through FINA, and not that we had a situation to block at the same time, but the ban on administrative and employer or on HZMO is still being sent to the HZMO, and then, from a number of grounds, you don't know who it is before, who after the order of executions and everything else, so we're going to support this law. However, once again I appeal to be seen and found a solution for these demand collection agencies in which to regulate it, and I say first of all not because of the amounts themselves but also because of their relationship with the perpetrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148801	Thank you very much. The next club of representatives is that of HSU and Independent MPs on behalf of whom the respected representative Tomislav Žagar will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148802	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to ask a few questions to the Minister in a brief discussion and try to raise some current questions concerning not only the content of this law but all that this law implies or what might happen to it. But before that, I would like to highlight a sentence that Alexic, in his replica this morning, said, seems very important to me, which was, it was. It should be clear to people that this law does not apply to all the fates of people who have already come into debt slavery, this law will eventually help those who are in the future, they have found themselves in such a situation that they can no longer pay their obligations. I fully agree with the minister that everyone in the Republic should pay their dues, there is no doubt about it. However, where the two of us seem to disagree so we can't avoid one historical context, we can't avoid everything that was in the Republic, close our eyes and say nothing happened, that's all, there's the rule of law always working, there's everything going on as bad and these people are guilty themselves. No, it's not like that, it's not like that. I'm going to mention one example, just one example, these are the workers of Gaia who were deceived in the bankruptcy proceedings, in various ways being deceived and not using all the legal means, whether they were deceived by a bankruptcy manager, whether the lawyer who worked with them was someone else. I'm not accusing anyone of just saying that they're simply accused in that procedure, they've lost their claim. The minister said well on one HRT show, there's no statute of limitations, there's claims, but we can see that there's an out-of-date somewhere not. If we went back to the content of this law, I would have divided it into three groups. The first is to comply with EU legislation as the minister also stressed in his introduction, he said our citizens are not equal to EU citizens. And again, I ask the question of the Minister, if I get it wrong, I'm glad it is then, but if I get it right, it means that our citizens who went off will be able to make this law possible, not by saying it's a bad provision, if that's how it has to be, we have to coordinate it, but it has to be said to people that it will allow their accounts to be blocked in the countries where they've gone to temporary work right now. If that's what they're going to get into huge trouble. The second thing, when we talk about the functionality that this law wants to achieve, it seems to me that this someone has called ping pong between public notebooks, courts, so much I have no objection if the courts are to be involved, but what the minister warns in which the courts can be involved in the whole story or whether it will just be formal inclusion, even though the main work will be done by the public notebooks, and the courts will only serve to cover the job. Because I think if I'm wrong, Minister, correct me, I think you said that this morning, someone else mentioned, that the problem was so far, in the very act during the executive procedure that the citizens were not properly informed that they were actually in the process. If that is true, and if so, and we are witnessing that it has been paid so far, and I particularly welcome the ministers, which is being abolished, the estimated costs that have been defined so far, if that is true, how is it possible that FINA, which is a state institution, FINA and lawyers, is natural, they, they, it was convenient, how they could have charged from the citizens the intended costs, if it was not in accordance with the legislation. So someone did something illegal then. If you could, please, answer that question, and I particularly welcome that you have abolished that provision. And the third dimension of this law is that of course, socially, I welcome all these measures leading to cost reduction. Of course, no one can be reasonable against it. They will certainly enable those in a difficult situation to pay less of these costs, to settle it, because let's not forget, it is mentioned poorly in public. Nearly 100 billion kunas are charged by citizens through executive procedures. 100 billion kuna. We see in the latest legal decisions since 2018, which I also welcome, that around 25 billion kunas have been wiped out of debt. How he wiped out that money, I don't know. The minister was saying there's no statute of limitations, there's... there's no... there's no, if there's a will, there's solutions. Someone mentioned here this morning that when we look at the structure, I think a colleague from HDZ, that if we look at the structure of the debtor, then we actually see a blood count of the debtors and we see that most of these debtors owe less than 10 thousand kuna. It's a good part of the teleoperers. I don't like it when colleagues and colleagues from this pay phone and in society say people are guilty, why they took phones, so people, we live in the 21st century, these people have kids, these kids go to school, so they have to, today's not a luxury, it's a means. All young people today use cell phones. Some countries have banned it in schools, and we're going in the opposite direction, and here's the minister announcing the introduction of pills, so we're going in line with technologies, and people don't have the luxury anymore, people need it. When they lost their jobs, they could no longer pay and sometimes the low ones amounted to debt, and then these tight interest rates brought them into the situation. Of course, here I am, now reacting the day after, I didn't think about it when it was, last year there was a debate on the Law on Mandatory Relations, indeed here I am, an engineer of engineering, so don't mind me, one of the economists says, so we learned, right. Why is the average interest rate +3 percentage points? Why 3 percentage points? Who thought of that? What economist has determined that a tight interest rate is 3%, a percentage point? For legal entities 5%. Why isn't it 2.5%? We're talking billions here. Why isn't that? Such a solution could have happened. We were 94 in May and June 94, the tight interest was 30%. And we're here, of course, that it's progressed, and there's now 6.3% of the tight interest on that, and someone here mentioned, that's the essence of the whole executive story, that interest and the cost of the process, primarily interest has made people this situation where they are. Therefore, it should also be guided in the future by tight interest. And finally, to conclude the debate, the HSU Club and the independent representatives will support this legislative proposal, very simply, if you, Minister, respect the proposal of your colleague Alexic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148803	Thank you very much. We are going to an individual debate and will be the first to speak to the esteemed representative Goran Aleksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148804	I thank the esteemed vice president of HS. I have already proposed amendments to the executive law, I have also proposed amendments to the Law on Mandatory Relations, all these amendments that I have proposed, would help people who are currently completed and blocked, and I think that the intensity of this law that is being prepared should also be an aid to these people, not just executive procedures in the future. Therefore, the executive law, as it is imagined, is not enough, I will not even enter these technical details, if that is the case, so be it, it is not a problem, there are good things, it is not that there is no. But I'm going to suggest again what I've suggested before, and I hope that between the two readings you'll re-analyze and that you might accept some of it. Because it's good for people who are now in blockades, not for those who are just going to be blocked. Well, first of all, something that should be worth everything, the question of hiring a lawyer. I have proposed, and I will suggest again, that if a legal person who has traffic per year over 3 million kuna hires a lawyer to initiate an executive procedure, then the legal person has no right to ask for the expense of a lawyer from the perpetrators. What's this about? It's not about a lawsuit. It's about the initiation of an executive procedure. It's about the expenses of a lawyer to a lawsuit. So if someone who has, such as holding Zagreb, such as HEP, such as HRT, such as some, any large legal person, such as banks, if she would hire a lawyer to launch an executive procedure, she should pay for it herself. It is unacceptable today for individual law firms to make money on debts. And that those debts, then, that's where their profits come from. That doesn't make sense. Running an executive procedure isn't creative work. Run an executive procedure, I say, a high school student can teach him. It's not, it doesn't take any university education, it doesn't need a judicial exam, it can run anyone who's written and has at least a little mathematical spirit in them, and that's why the big legal people who have legal services can start it themselves. I don't think that's the problem with that. The second thing, despite the fact that I proposed it in the Law on Mandatory Relations, I believe that this can also be resolved by the Implementing Law to specify a tight interest in such a way that when it reaches the height of the principal to stop running in the executive procedure. Thus, the tightening interest charged in the executive procedure when it reaches the size of the principal debt ceases to flow and this applies retroactively, the retroactivity of certain provisions of the law is not prohibited by the Constitution, the Constitution is forbidden only to be retroactive as a whole of the law. If a provision is justified that it is good for society, that it is good for the whole economy, for the people, for the citizens, then it is possible to do so, what does that mean? That means, for example, I'm going to speak out of my stomach right now, I don't have the information on how to do this in certain cases, but that means if someone's been doing it for 20 years because of the same debt, which is possible, and if he's already paid a tight interest in this process at the height of the principal he's owed, then even if the extra interest he paid above the principal is denied from the principal and that the tightening interest is not charged, it would be that retroactivity, and it wouldn't be damaged because it's something that's completely normal to me, and it can be done. As far as the provisions on the suspension of the current tightening interest after it reaches the top, we already have the decision of the EU court that it is permitted, the Slovenians have so prescribed, and the Slovenians have asked the EU court's opinion in this, and the EU court has decided that it is okay, that it can be prescribed, so it is not prohibited to prescribe such a thing. EU law does not prohibit that. That if someone forbids it, then we forbid it ourselves. So, that's possible. Furthermore, the order of payment of debts also prescribed by essentially the Law on Mandatory Relations can be prescribed for the executive procedure specifically for the tightened interest in the Implementing Law, in what way? In a way that we do not charge a tight interest in the executive procedure after the cost, but we charge the principal. The SDP colleagues have a 50%, 50% proposal to pay the principal's costs and tighten interest rates and 50% to the head as the first one to charge. My proposal is different, my proposal is to charge the costs first, which is a normal thing because if someone had the cost, that cost must be paid to him, that after that the principal is charged and only at the end of the tightened interest, and that won't be damaged by the believer, it won't, because, when the part of the principal is taken away, the tightened interest until that moment has run and has not been wiped away and there will be a tight interest on that rest of the principal that remains after that one part of the principal has been paid off. Therefore, the interest continues to be tightened, there is no problem. What I have proposed is supported by the Croatian Bar of Law. So we have the support of an important institution in the Republic of Croatia to prescribe it and I don't see any reason not to prescribe it. The following thing I would like to propose is to terminate the executive procedure or prohibit the enforcement procedure on real estate that is burdened with a mortgage loan that has unfair contractual provisions. In the Republic of Croatia, we first have a final ruling in the case of Franak, which means that 150,000 people have negotiated an unfair and thus worthless interest rate, an unfair and thus worthless currency clause of CHF. If someone wants to execute a debtor from such a loan, they must not be allowed. On the other hand, by 10 January 2013, in 95% of the cases in consumer contracts, banks negotiated an unfair interest rate, an interest rate that is changed by a decision of the Bank. Although not all these loans have been decided in a useful process because it has a specific period for which it is valid, I claim and know that banks have negotiated such unfair interest in almost all consumer loans until January 10th, and that such loans must prevent the implementation of the property if the implementation is due to debt and all because it has an unfair contractual provision. The basis for what I am saying is not only my wish but it is also the verdict of the EU Court of Justice C-407/18 where the EU court ruled C-407/18 clearly and unequivocally stated that if there are unfair contractual provisions in a contract, that the court is obliged to terminate the enforcement procedure on the property until such dishonesty is established. Therefore, again, we have the EU's right to protect consumers who are damaged by unfair loans and who will be further damaged by the fact that someone is going to do them and they did not pay their debts precisely because their debts are too large, because banks charge for something they should not have charged. Here, in short, that is, and I will deliver my proposals to you between the two readings, deliver exactly where I should add, in which way and if you accept my proposals, I will support the Implementing Law, if you do not accept my proposals, I will not raise my hand, I will not press this button for your law, here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148805	Thank you very much, we have one replica of the respected representative Davor Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148806	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate you and my colleagues from the Franak Association who have been fighting banks for 8 years, with what they have done unfairly to Croatian citizens, and it is an opportunity to support you in your debate and to point out that we have tools now, and these are the judgments that you mentioned where our judiciary is safe and that the Ministry must also react to protect citizens through such unfair credits being deceived and not be left without their property. And here I am also using the opportunity to ask how many citizens are already in the meantime where the real estate has been completed and who have lost their apartment or house and for sure that they should be thought of making it up to them or for that property to come back to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148807	The answer of the respected representative Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148808	Thank you. Dear colleague Vlaovic, you see the real estate problem that has already been completed, is that the one who bought that property is not guilty because he bought a property that he had no right to buy in fact because the property was made on the basis of something that was unfair, but therefore there is an institute of damages, so such a man who passed so has the right to sue on the basis of a collective verdict, to get back the money that was overpaid, but also additional damages could sue and seek damages for what he suffered. And if the state has any morals, it will then respect Directive 93/13 which says that the state can adopt a legal solution and systematically damage all citizens. I even received an answer from the EU Commission, which I forwarded to Minister Bosnjakovic and Prime Minister Plenkovic in which the euro commission gives me the right to the state to pass such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148809	Thank you very much. We can go to the next individual debate, and she will be a respected representative of Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148810	Since the Phoenicians invented money, there have also been debts, debts in money and demand and the return of these investigations and the state is there whenever it could regulate it on the part of the religious side, it has made sure that the comrades return. Once the punishments were harsh, cruel, sometimes slightly milder in history, here in any case this government had enough time to study all this and propose a good law. What's the point of the execution? So certainly the insurance of the collection of claims, that's the only purpose, and that performance must be effective on the one hand in order to ensure that, on the other hand, it has to be just. So all citizens are in the same position, and in my debate I will prove to you that this is not so, that you are not such a government and that we are not such a state. And a third, if possible, to ensure the dignity of the debtors, that the debtor be protected there, not only in his dignity but also in what he said to his colleague, Alexic, from one unfair charge, excessive charges, excessive shelling of that debtor. So the purpose is to pay back the debt, but in the amount of a sevenfold bigger because then it's not just. And how do you protect the dignity of the debtors? You say there's no dissection from the only real estate in the winter period. Well, that looks like a joke to me, not a protection of dignity, because when temperatures rise above +5oC, when a little snow baths, when Vakula announces a little more beautiful weather, then you'll start with those conjectures. This law serves the executive to charge as soon as possible, not to save blocked citizens. Now, it can only be so why lie about it, why don't you honestly say why you talk and write, and look at me now we're protecting blocked citizens, when that's not the case. It doesn't have to be like that, but it's really not like that in this law. What are the scales of that? Currently, 1,932 items are in public auction of 630 apartments and houses. Prime Minister Plenkovic spoke yesterday at the current morning about the government's many successes over how it is a wonderful state, and he would ask the owners of these 630 properties what they think about whose houses, whose apartments went to public auctions remain on the road. How does the state take care of them? Here's Vice President Reiner was surprised yesterday that the citizens live so well, and they don't know that, and that was his question to the government. Today, everyone's making fun of it on the portals. What are the reasons for this citizens' debt? Well, it's not all con men who took speculative loans with the intention of not returning them. There's probably part of it, but not all of it. People were raising credits in good faith, hoping they could pay them back, and then they lost their jobs because there was a tycoonization of the country, their jobs, their jobs were ruined, they got fired, they couldn't get a job anywhere, they just couldn't pay it back, without their guilt. And how do you protect these people now? A colleague, Marija Jelkovac, in her debate today, said on behalf of the club here on behalf of the HDZ, every search must be returned, so you see it in Croatia is not so, it doesn't have to, it doesn't have to. The government recently made a decision under the radar on the forgiveness of loans received by the Croatian defender, it is 3,656 credits with an interest rate of 3%, amounting to 319 million kunas, of which 2% were returned, 2% were forgiven, meaning 240 million kuna. Now some citizens can, and others can't, one real estate goes to the drum, and the other is forgiven, but then we're not a state because that's not how the state works. The state has a duty to all its citizens to take the same attitude, benevolent, less benevolent, stricter or lighter, but to all. When I read this, I asked if this was a joke, is it some kind of jujubetic prank, is it a sickle-boy joke, but it's not, it's not. All of us obviously live in capitalism, defenders live in socialism. Because what did it look like in socialism? The interest rate was below inflation, citizens raised loans, they bought what they needed from it, and inflation ate this amount of credit compared to the pay received, so there was no need for it. The worker was a saint then, unlike today. Today it falls into this debt slavery because what we're talking about is debt slavery that should be avoided. This can also be compared to the country, so as well as Croatia as a country has passed and fallen into debt slavery. In fact, Yugoslavia is in October of '90. The year had $16 billion foreign debt loans, or 14.6 billion if it was recalculated through German marks. Croatia has 38.4 billion euros and returns only interest, such as capital. And when you can only repay interest, and you can't return the principal, you'll never get rid of your debt, which means you've been brought into debt slavery, whether as a citizen or as a state. Here are some citizens, most citizens are in this unfavourable position as is the whole of our country. Now how do you avoid it? There's a few suggestions, here's the SDP proposal... to return 50% of the principal, 50% of the interest, that would ease the problem. A colleague, Alexic, also has several extraordinary proposals. It is up to you whether or not they will respect them, and they and one and the other are going to ensure the believers, but to protect the debtors and the debtors as much as possible. Because look, when you fall into that debt slavery, when you can't, but you can't pay back the debt then you come into a position that Krleža is in his ballads when he says, "that would be somewhere before someone else... that a farmer would not pay him a penny either, only that's why he never found it."
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148811	Thank you very much. Your exposure has caused more replicas. The first one is the respected representative of Ivan Pernar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148812	Dear ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor, Representative Stazic. This law does not solve a crucial matter, and it is that miserable debts can continue to be carried out. So you can re-open the executive procedure for a debt of one kuna and again there will be great executive costs. Why? Well, because debt is miserable and whatever these costs are, they're more than twice the amount of debt. The legislator could have resolved this in a simple way so that the costs of the implementation amounting to 20 kuna go to the burden of the executive and solved the problem. No one would ever force a debt of five kunas or one June, 30 limes, etc., but the legislators apparently regrettably do not care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148813	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148814	But I don't think there's a fellow Pernar that's the problem with these little debts that make it possible for you to come to an end, I don't think it would be fair first that the executive would bear the costs he didn't cause, caused by someone else. But there are large systems, let's say the HRT, it has a huge legal service, so the launch of the operation is one simple legal job. So can't their lawyers learn it, but they rent law offices that do nothing else, that's what their deeds do. It's a stamp, make a proposal and just change the name, last name and address upstairs. And then this debtor because he didn't pay one war of 80 kuna or two wares of 160 kuna when he started that exercise doesn't pay 160 kuna, he's going to have to pay all the legal expenses, representing HRT in front of the court, and it suddenly grows three times. But why grow three times when this one is only 80 kuna. Well, let's put some kind of cost of the HRT service on it, even though it pays through the fee. That's what I pay for and their legal services, and you, anyone who pays the fee. Well, if that's what they do, then if that fee was 20 kuna, no one would say anything. But this is unfair, this is deeply unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148815	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Maria Jelkovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148816	Thank you very much. My colleague Stazić, I know that you do not like excessive Croatian defenders, but whenever it comes to the rights of Croatian defenders and the privileges they exercise, you resent them very much and forget that you are sitting here at the expense of what the Croatian defenders have chosen. And you also forget that this government has written off debts to our citizens totaling more than billions of kunas, so it has done so by amending the laws of this government in the last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148817	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148818	There's no need to insult me. I bear the monuments of the Homeland War and the medals "Glass", so much for your information. So this is your insinuation about me loving someone or not loving someone being not only unnecessary but also intelligent. Yes, some citizens are unblocked that's right, a third of them have fallen into the blockade again, which means that the measure was bad, poorly prepared and even worse implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148819	The violation of the Rules of Procedure was raised by the respected representative Jelkovac. What's the matter with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148820	I was injured by an article in 238 by a colleague who called me not intelligent, which means that it offends me, and I did nothing to offend him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148821	Yes, it is true that it is not appropriate to talk to each other like that. Of course, I don't want to sharpen the situation, I don't want to make any warnings if it's not necessarily necessary, but I ask you to stick to the fundamental principles of competence in communication. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Gordan Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148822	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, in your debate, you correctly mentioned that unfortunately we are not all equal in our country and you have set one example of the government's debt write-offs from this year amounting to 700 million kuna, but you did not explain it well. You said that one part of the write-off was according to the defenders but most of the write-off was related to 660 million kunas from the Development and Employment Fund, which from 2004 onwards, in the famous Sanader era, had been accredited by hundreds and hundreds of HDZs, you have about it a mass of articles on the Internet and data on who got all the credits and with whom these people were linked, which are also written off in these unfortunately activities. So six hundred and sixty million kunas were written off by the government this year by loans distributed in the Golden Sanader era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148823	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148824	I don't know what the membership of those people who got those loans is, whether they're all HDZ's or not, but since they've been doing it honestly in the voice of the famous Sanader government, I'm inclined to trust you. And now something else about these defense loans. 2% was returned, which means 2% of honest people were there who returned it. So much so that my colleague Jelkovac realizes that I don't think everyone here is an unfair defender. No, no, I'm sorry about that 2%, they turned out naive, they turned out stupid to the ones who didn't come back.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148825	The next replica is the esteemed representative of Steve Cule.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148826	Sir, I may have gotten you a monument but she's probably from '45. of... who, returning from the battlefield, received a fourth-room apartment in Draskovic on the 4th floor, which the defenders could not get but received a miserable self-employment loan when they returned from the battlefield of some 20 thousand marks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the Kukurik coalition, when it came to power, gave the wife of your Prime Minister Milanovic 2 million kuna loans from HBOR for the opening of the car wash and the loan was later taken over by HBOR, it was your way of hosting, incarcerating, taking care of your honest cadre. And don't touch the Croatian defenders, while there is one here that will answer you in an adequate and appropriate way that you go, shame on you either.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148827	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148828	As for your allegations about my family, they're incorrect, false, which I'm not surprised at. I'm not surprised at that. It's only natural for me that you're lying. You're a man of such a car. As far as this second one is concerned, for my colleague Milanovic, I really don't know, I believe, if you lied about this, you lied about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148829	The Honorable Representative Maras has committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure. What was hurt in the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148830	The 238th Mr. Culej speaks falsely, although he is informed of these half portals that do not check his information, so no credit has been given to Mr. Milanovic's wife, these are nonsense, unfortunately we are not the first time...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148831	Good, false, false, they're not here...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148832	...even heard such nonsense from fellow Culei, but what we can do, we can't forbid a man to talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148833	My colleague Maras, for one thing, is being told here all the time, every day and every day, and I intend not to punish anyone in accordance with my Rules of Procedure, but I warn you because of your words that you have said that you have offended your colleague Culei. Therefore, you have a warning. The next replica is the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Let's not go with...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148834	... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148835	You're getting a warning from your colleague Culej. Here's your colleague, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148836	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic is... I believe that today it is difficult for those who listen, who are blocked, who listen to this debate and it is about justice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's one piece of information to contribute to this debate. The city of Orahovica was forgiven for a debt totaling 23 million kuna, a Virovitica-Podravska County of 105 million kuna. Although the State's Attorney's Office said it was a political issue, the ministry at the time said it was a legal issue. However, it turned out to be a political issue, as then Minister Tolusic boasted, all local portals announced it and thanked the government for forgiving the debts. So even though this is about units of local self-government, even though they were guarantees to someone, even though they are units of local self-government, we are in a position to forgive someone and not to forgive someone. And then of course the citizens with the right question why they can't be forgiven too. And it shows, these decisions show that it's exclusively a political decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148837	The reply of the respected representative of Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148838	First of all, people have a problem with injustice, and that hurts them. Not that they have to pay back the debt, but just like this. To see that HDZ mayor, the mayor will be forgiven for his ignorance in management or the city or county, the creation of debt boasting, perhaps stealing, I don't know, he created debts, he'll be forgiven, the second unit of local self-government won't be done, the citizen won't be expelled, he'll be expelled, not snowed, not in winter conditions, but as of spring he goes out, and the mayor or HDZ mayor stays in office still to be able to rob and do what he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148839	Thank you very much. Now we'll move on to the next individual debate, and she's a respected representative of Damjan Vucelic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148840	The esteemed chairman, respected ministers and associates, respected colleagues and colleagues, have doubled since the beginning of the Living Wall to this day. When we warned of criminal law, you said we were lying, and to this day never again poor, blocked and accomplished citizens. Even when the number of blocked citizens accidentally falls a little, I assure you that the total debt is always growing, it keeps growing. It's a problem that none of your proposals i.e. Your executive law cannot be resolved, it will be worse in the future. You've all been in power here at HS, all the parties and you haven't done anything, and you're fighting each other, and those who are acting up they're pretending to want to do something. Do you realize why you're even sitting in HS? You're here to represent citizens, not the interests of banks, the interests of law firms, the interests of the Agency for the collection of claims, the interests of your own. Only so far has the Living Wall submitted a bill against the Agency for the collection of claims. You turned him down. Instead of the people, you chose eos matrix and B2 capital. You're here at HS because of the people you seem to have lost any contact with long ago. You've never talked to ordinary people, you've never talked to pensioners, you've talked to your parents, you've never talked to your workers. You live in your balloons. You must understand that every decision makes only misery and misery. The life of a decent man can only be seen on paper today. How many of your decisions have your families destroyed? How many people have moved out? How many people have suffered from stress and died? How many people put their hands on themselves? Remember my words when you go to sleep if you have a conscience. You're here for the people, we've been defending people from the Living Wall who, because of your laws, wanted to throw themselves off the roofs, we've defended them, we've defended them and we'll defend them. The result of your work is four executive laws, another 20 amendments and additions to the law. What's changed? Why can't a man pay off a loan? Why can't a man pay the bill? Why did he get fired or couldn't he get a job? Why is he trapped for the rest of his life in debt slavery, in debt and blocked? And what I said to the minister was about all of you here today at HS, you working for the people, the Republic of Croatia wouldn't be left without the people. These are the facts and results of your work. I'll read you the letters we got from the citizens now. This letter was received by the Living Wall by Mr. Tonchi. Your Honor, since everyone's lying, messing around, and I'm not working, I've got social welfare $600,00 a month, a woman works seasonally, a son is in high school, I've taken two loans and paid for them until I'm out of a job. I have two stents in my heart, one stent in my leg, bypass and two bypasses, no prostate and bladder, I'm an oncological patient. Mr. Vlaho writes, Your Honor, I had a run-in from those mobsters and the elos matrix lender because of the telecoms, and I paid the entire bill a year ago, and I have their e-mail about how the debt was settled entirely and they took me out of my account. It came to me in the mail today that I owe them another £2600,00 from that case and they're threatening to do it again. Is it worth suing this mob or pay for it? Here, look out, this is what people are wondering. Mr. Borislav writes, I received an assignment from Hanžekovic's office because of a TV fee that reads on my late mother, I was the sole heir and the commission is £2.500,00, and I complained to the court in the place and the higher court where I received the refusal of the dispute. And you know what I inherited? 3.77 kn. A letter from Mr. Hrvoje, we are a young family and because of the naked cutting of the forest by the Croatian forests, the house has been insecure for a second time and we are just waiting for when it will collapse, and we have two underage children living in that house. Yesterday we were fired from the loan agreement on the house or the whole amount of credit we did not pay because it was established by the examination that the rink was responsible for the guilt of the Croatian forest. Question, is there now a mirage? Here, gentlemen, these are just some of the questions we get every day, this is a real example of work. We believe that this law, if it stays like this, will solve nothing. These sorry debts you've had, so far the two who've been at a good time the same thing, nothing helps either. Already today, colleagues here have said that again many of these same people are back on the list of blocked ones, so nothing, nothing helps. This is what you have done here, and what your colleagues are complaining about with the right to remove the principal first, and then interest or as a colleague, Alexic, who says first expenses, then interest, it is actually the right way to get rid of the completed ones. You have to understand that these debts are non-paymentable, you'll never charge these debts, so you don't have from where, they don't have people to pay you for it. This way, this model would give some hope, some light to those people, not to be slaves for life, and what's worst you're encouraging and working on black. Every man who has that kind of debt won't hire you anywhere and won't let a quarter of his salary be taken off. Why? Because they won't have enough to live on. A man like that will work for you for the rest of your life on black, never knowing if he'll get fired tomorrow, but he's got to work like that, and what happens when he retires, he'll have nothing from retirement. So you're doing a long-term problem with this, long-term, this is never gonna work out, until you figure it out, there won't be any progress, there'll be more and more, now you've taken off a little bit of the short-term, they'll increase again. And what I said at the beginning, the debt keeps increasing, you can reduce the number of blocked by some amount, but the debt keeps growing, it's one balloon, you'll have to think about how, how to solve it, here's thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148841	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the respected representative Alexic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148842	Thank you. I now direct you from this place to take a legal expert to check the situation with the EU court in a way that finds the verdict of EU court C-407/18, the EU Court of Justice C-407/18 prevents the implementation of the property if the credit is agreed with unfair contractual provisions. All Loan Contracts, all agreed before 10 January 2013 they have an unfair interest rate contract and the EU court prohibits the implementation of real estate coming from such loans, prohibits. Therefore, it is for us God and the beating, they are stronger than the Constitutional Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148843	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148844	My fellow Alexic, thank you for your advice, I would just like to point out that the Living Wall has handed over its Executive Law, its proposal for the Executive Law that you of course refused to us. We would have dealt with the problem with and blocked, but here someone is not in the interest of putting the bill into effect. And why is that? Of course, because the interests of the Agency for the collection of claims, the interests of public notebooks, the interests of lawyers, the interests of the FINA. So until we here at HS people realize that as long as we don't work for the people that there won't be any improvement unfortunately nothing, he's not the only law that you're doing against the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148845	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative of Snježana Sabolek.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148846	Honorable Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, respected MPs and MPs. Unfortunately, the new Implementing Law does not address the problems currently of 260,000 blocked citizens who remain blocked with enormous costs. Since 2011 Since the Living Wall has seriously entered the political scene so far, all of our doubts have come true, of course, that we have warned about. Of the 160,000 blocked, you've reached 260,000. If you were really interested in how to help the citizens, we would have adopted our law that was done naturally in the field with the people of the first hand. If you were really interested in how living citizens would not have changed that law of yours many times. Why do you keep changing it if it's so good? Why? You've been in power both of you, and nothing on this matter has been resolved, that's not what we're saying, that's what the numbers and cries of parents, mothers, people, children who appear to us in the Living Wall every day unfortunately. I'm asking you who you specifically helped? Here's what I'm going to tell you, stop guessing the executive sheriffs and similar lawyers and public notebooks. The living wall has distributed 1,000 donations to single parents in cash of £500,00. Why? If they don't have basic needs, some of them literally have nothing to eat, 500 pieces of school bags, 15 families with children we have provided vacation at sea because some of them have never been at sea, you can imagine that some of them have never seen the sea, they're just some of the human works of us from the Living Wall. I'm asking you again exactly what you're with as many MPs as you have specifically done for your citizens, and they don't and don't have to be your members? As we are known as activists and in the field with people, I'll give you some of those people's cry. - Mrs. Crescent. Gabriela says, how is it possible for the execution to take the child's disability, should the disabled be taken from the disabled, and is it a child for a year and a half? I don't have anyone to ask for help because this only leads to emigration. And then, Mrs. McNally. Hope says, I've written to you several times, I support your work in HS because you're talking about the problems of small, ordinary people, my name is Hope, I'm a retired, I'm blocked, my husband passed away this year, she says when politicians make mistakes to anyone, the last examples of the minister, and I remember the words of Minister Tolusic when he says I was wrong, and when we make mistakes, they come in blockades, executions, punishments, and a hundred times more. The president didn't beat her hand off the table, she did nothing but take a picture. It's best when the prime minister and politicians say that's the law. Who makes such laws? Change them. The prime minister says he can do what he wants, it's true, so he can help but he doesn't want to. Do any of them know what it's like to be blocked for years, to wake up and lie down with the same question of how to go on? We weren't irresponsible, we weren't buying cars, cottages, traveling around the world, we weren't taking anybody else's stuff, the husband was paying other people's loans, we paid the agency 5.600,00 kn a series of unfortunate and clumsy circumstances, we were lining up one after another, I have a house 72m2, pension 3.000,00 kn, I'm blocked, so I get $2.300,00 kn, when I pay some commitments I have left 600,00 kn for life, we've never denied our debts, we've never sat down and waited for someone to solve us, we've visited countless addresses, we've called and wrote, I've also written to the Justice Department, they've answered what can be read on all the educational bankruptcy portals that I don't care about. I want to settle it in peace and grieve for my wife, so make these terribly difficult days at least more bearable. Thank you for your time, and I'm asking for your help. And then, Mrs. McNally. Anica writes to us, asks us, you can help us, the mother of a schoolboy, the school starts soon, and I can't help my children because I don't have any workbooks, I don't have any school supplies, our receipts are small, children's allowance and our husband receives 1.400,00 kn permanent rights of defenders. Of course the Living Wall helped these people, too. These are difficult situations, and you're playing with the fates of these and similar people. I'm asking you what social measures you've taken to keep things from happening? Since my policy is humanism, and nothing else I can't mention that with cases like this I meet on a daily basis, I know very well how these people live, I've looked at the plight of old people, children who live in inhumane conditions, and I assure you that this really is no longer an individual matter, but we all can't turn our heads against such problems. Since the principle of equality before the law is not a guarantee of justice, we should therefore point out in this HS that the social and health status of citizens must be respected, and those in a more unfavourable situation must have certain privileges in the account and the principle of solidarity before the law. This assembly should be an example where it will not represent small or perhaps even large political interests, but always only citizens' interests. But unfortunately, the figures don't show that. Eight years of 160,000 completed and blocked numbers increased to 260. You're still trying to convince us that it's finally going to get better. Someone here mentioned fire measures today, but unfortunately they're not fire measures either, we all know that firefighters are very valuable people and that they're putting out the fire. This is an attempt to put Band-Aids on the workpiece from which long-sharp blood all over the place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148847	The next individual debate will be that respected representative of Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148848	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After these earthquake testimonies, what's the matter? Sabolek here reads and stories like this are thousands. So these are not individual cases, nor has anything on this issue in the Republic of Croatia improved, nor has it been repaired. Unfortunately, our country is in many cases an example of the injustice of a part of people who are very hard to live and who come from year to year into all problems, and on the other hand of those privileged elites who live without any problems and without any worries, even when they fall into a problem with the law, debt, there is always someone who takes care of them. Earlier, he spoke about a fellow Stazic where he showed an example of 700 million kuna how simply the Government wiped out those debts that we in some way all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia paid out of the state budget to certain companies associated with the powers that had taken place since 2004, most of them until 2011. in Sanader's day, and on the other hand, hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens get almost no help. And I remember here it wasn't that long ago, but a year ago there were amazing announcements about Mr. Plenkovic's magical solutions that she said would solve the problem blocked in the Republic of Croatia, that the government was writing down billions of dollars, that it would free people, that there would be a lot less blocked and a lot less people who were in trouble. In a year, it's like nothing happened, so that tiny, minimal step the government took was defacto erased in less than a year, and we're back in the problem that we were in about blocked and then. More than 260,000 people are blocked at this point, the most benefits of this process are not even those to whom people are obliged, and I am not saying that people are being helped to resolve this debt or to enable them to function, the most benefits of which are by those intermediaries or certain law firms or those who buy these debts, etc. etc. And as long as we don't solve this problem that it's possible that when we buy out the debt, let's say we try to make it possible for a person who is in debt and who can't pay the bank or someone else, a teleoper, anyone, sees that they won't charge their debt, and as long as they always have the opportunity to sell that debt for 50, 20 or 30% to someone else, and not write off a part of that debt to someone who's really obliged, we'll have it that those who are intermediaries ultimately earn the most from that whole process and make people defacto sometimes and life in that circuit because when you're in debt, they follow other costs and you can't get out of that whole process. Such solutions should be sought and something was said by fellow Peja Grbin, or this law does not allow people to be in a better situation after its adoption and as he said not to solve the problem but rather to seek a environment which can generally not be found and in the end again we have a situation that people from their existing difficult situations cannot come out of 260 000 people very skillfully used these people in election campaigns, even the president, the president, or Mrs. President of the Association, were blocked on the list of HDZ during the Karamarks, that was some 4 years ago, it seems to me that the lady from Rijeka, had been very loud, promised, offered, shared in the elections, and in the end there was nothing and the problem was even bigger than it was then, even bigger than it was then. Some solutions, I said earlier, are on the border of bizarreness, says you can't carry out the performance during the winter period, so it's a message to people to move you on the road, so here we are as legislators so generous and good that when it's colder time we won't let it work, but wait until spring, so you can find a bench in the park or under the bridge somewhere to find your hideout. So it's not the point of protecting someone for 2-3 months, it's the point of finding people a solution to get out of their real estate, and it's a good idea to exist, and that we're all going to support them because of a small debt that can't be done and evicted because trust me with some of the moves that the government has made will grow year after year. Now I'm going to tell you an example that includes over 3,000 families in the Republic of Croatia who, at this point, cannot pay the taxes imposed on them by the HDZ government. It's about protected tenements where the government, on the incentive of probably a minority partner in the HNS government through the Ministry of Construction, made an incredibly unfair law where people who didn't find themselves guilty of their 90s in apartments that had to be returned to their owners in the process, put them in a position not to have two at this moment, and perhaps some today, a roof over their heads, but would be executed and forced out of their real estate until yesterday, a defect of their property because they were in the same situation as everyone else in the 90s because they lived in social property and they weren't guilty of being exactly in those properties, and not in some others that everyone else could buy. And instead of the state finding a solution to allow people to be in the same status as all the other citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and to mark those whose property was eventually 70 or more years ago or slightly less, excuse me, was taken away, not the state insists that exhaustion, higher costs try to push those citizens on the road and put a burden around their necks and in some way make them homeless at their very often older age, means at the end of their lives. So at this point he's looking at us for sure, believe me, thousands of protected tenants who are now thinking about how to pay twice the amount of rent that the Government of the Republic of Croatia imposed on them compared to what they paid until a few months ago. How do they pay? He won't pay. Tomorrow they will be completed, tomorrow they will force them to the courts and drive them out of the properties they invested in and maintained and had almost their whole lives with them. I'm saying, it's about 70 and more somewhere, in some situations and over and over. And the benefits of this situation will often be those of the 90s when the issue was not settled for small money or perhaps even later bought those properties and eventually will now make an extra profit. So what I'm saying is, we have to give final solutions, we have to allow people to try to solve this problem, and it's amazing that the RH that has a job problem means very often when you're looking at some cities you can't find someone to hire them, you can't find someone to hire them, instead of trying to get those people to get legally hired, so they don't go straight to pay, they're even in some situations and there are more of them, we don't find that solution and it's not obvious because otherwise it would be because there would be a reduction in the number of blockeds, they're constants, they're even in some situations and there are more than there are in the past. So, since this is the first reading I hope here's some things to be solved, that power will make a certain step. People who are in the association, here it is, and I read their proposals, today they shared them in front of HS, should be supported, should be sincere, and not only before elections as it is quite often, here today we see that Prime Minister Plenkovic has finally seen it and around the Law "67 is too much", now we will accept everything, I think the Government will accept everything, but only until the elections pass, after the election unfortunately all things are forgotten very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148849	Thank you very much. The next individual debate is the respected representative Ivan Lovrinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148850	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister with Associates, and I especially welcome you respected citizens who follow us through the media, I hope they let this go and they won't interrupt me. This is the 26th attempt to pass a fair executive law, 25 times the previous political elites since the establishment of the Croatian state have offered false hope to Croatian citizens, to you who have been blocked, who are at the top of the line, and this 26th time, despite the efforts of your team, Mr. Ministers, from which apparently those who were most interested as it was said here, will come out the same will remain a false hope. This Implementing Law will unfortunately not change anything, the number of blocked will increase, and in particular the total amount of debt will increase. It's a clear math. And right now, I can say, I can have the political structures that have run the Republic of Croatia for the 30th time, but I'm sure they won't, dear citizens, that you won't give them that opportunity again, that they will never solve it again. What is the only solution for you fellow citizens, for all of us? Only new people, people who have knowledge, people who are not chips, people who are not interested in certain groups and, above all, more honest people and who have knowledge and courage, are waiting for the Republic of Croatia. But dear citizens, if you think that a few of us here in HS are enough to solve this bloody difficult problem without you going to the polls, that 45% of the citizens don't go to elections, so there's nothing we can do here. Well, you see, I've been talking here from the back bench for two, two and a half years, why, because I didn't want to get into someone's coalition, being someone's coin, so I could come to the front row and talk behind the main speaker. You see, I'm fighting for you, for the citizens of the back bench from here, and I'll fight to the end if I have to, until new elections, it doesn't bother me. But I urge you to make this effort, go to the elections to finally clear the political scene of those who enslave Croatian society. Debts have become the most dangerous problem in the world, not just in the Republic of Croatia because the world swims on the ocean of debt. Let me immediately say on behalf of the Party we change Croatia, the fair debt must, should and must be returned from as long as the world and century is so, but the unfair debt does not need to and does not have to be returned. What's that unfair debt? The one that was created on the basis of unfair provisions. So what can be unfair provisions in a contract that the two parties place in an unequal position? So it could be a question of tight interest, currency clauses, regular interest rates, etc. etc. We've already seen in the case of Franak that produced the currency clause, it's a means of mass destruction of citizens. I'm going to talk to you today as an expert on the problem of tightening interest, so you have Mr. Ministers after you run that team, you have a chance for another reading, put it on, so do something to keep you in mind, not to be remembered for what you said a year ago that the Republic of Croatia has one of the best executive laws in the world, I think. What's going on here? I won't go too far if I say, if the last weeks have been about hybrid warfare against the Republic of Croatia, that this is a matter of finance and debt in the Republic of Croatia hybrid forms of war against the Republic of Croatia and Croatian citizens because debt, credit, financial oligarchy, they produce these new products for mass destruction of citizens, slavery and this is the war, no one sees who shoots, and many die, many flee the country. More has escaped from the Republic of Croatia than 300-400 000 citizens due to debts they cannot repay, than from a dusk rifle during the war, we all know that well. But you SDP gentlemen are called the Social Democratic Party, so you, in your term of office since 2011-2015, have passed the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, have appointed this way of calculating the tight interest. Dear citizens, I can see that some of them are still in possession, so they're giving support to that foreigner because they think they've come to their senses, so now they're going to do it, that they're other people. They're the same people. I repeat, in their term of office, the Financial Business Act and pre-departure settlement were adopted. And what's an important word there? Well, there's an important point in saying that they've appointed a way of calculating the strained interest that is immoral, unfair, which is tremendously raising the debts of all citizens, and now I'm going to explain what's going on. You see, tight interest in the Republic of Croatia was 30% for a time, then it was down to 20%, 18.12 etc., today it is 6.3% for citizens and 8.3% for businesses. What is the problem, and why is tight interest a fundamental problem for blocked and perpetrators? Well, because it gradually increases debts. Imagine a man who had a regular interest of 7% and couldn't repay that loan, and then was charged with a tight 10% interest or 6% of today. In recent years since 2008. To date, there have never been such lower interest rates in history, however, the tightened interest rate is the legal profession in the Republic of Croatia, from the Supreme Court to the Constitutional Court, it has also accepted it as such unfair. Invited legal profession, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court to review and annul the Law on Mandatory Relations and on financial business and pre-profit settlement such a way of determining a tight interest. By 2015, a tight interest rate was determined by the CNB on the basis of interest which it had never actually used in 20 years. Why did you bring her into the law? You entered something like a foundation that wasn't used. There is no other answer than that you deliberately favored the executive mafia that the econtaneous rate of the National Bank serves as a means to better suck up money by citizens. It is this economic terrorism, financial terrorism that is being carried out against Croatia and the citizens of Croatia. What needs to be done, what we suggest from the party We change Croatia, we see the problem, we secession it fiercely but we also send proposals for a solution. Which are our suggestions so you can listen. Our proposals in the new Executive Act are that each party pays, carries out the costs of the executive procedure, that would immediately reduce the number of executive procedures by 70%. Turn off the public notebooks, you did it, that's good. You've automated the process and that's good, but it's not essential. Therefore, cancel all Mr. Ministers' debts stemming from so far-stricken interest. Why? Because they are unfairly determined and we from the party change Croatia we will submit, we will launch a bill to pass, to cancel all the tightening interest and debts that have arisen because they are unfair. In that sense, abolishing the work of the current debt enforcement agencies as well as paying off the bank's debts are a priority to, uh, paying off the debts to the debtors. I could still talk about this, but I'm sending a message. Dear citizens, none of the political structures so far will solve, only new people, new parties, new people, more honest, more skilled, and those who will really take care of the interests of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148851	Thank you. You have two replicas. The first line has Mr. Pernar.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148852	Dear Representative Lovrinovic, you said the fair debt must be paid back, however, the monetary system is unfair. He was created in a way to generate a debt that is technically invaluable. You yourself know that there is more debt in the world than there is money, that all countries are bound by the world but that they are not obliged to each other but that the private entities that have put themselves in place, that is to say, as intermediaries between central banks and states, are actually the ones who generate that debt, or that are the heart of that debt system. I believe that if debts are technically invaluable and can not actually be returned, that no amendments to the Executive Law can solve this problem in essence. The biggest debtor is our own country, which has absolutely no way to repay loans and only takes new and bigger ones to pay back the old ones, and thus the sovereign debt only increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148853	Mr. Lovrinović, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148854	Thank you, colleague Pernar, for asking. You see, right away to be precise, at least 50% of the total debt owed is indecipherable, is an unfair debt and I will undo it personally when I participate in the new government, not me, but with the new government. Therefore, at least 50% of this debt is unfair and should be annulled. I would like to say one more thing, who today determines Mr. Minister tightened interest in Croatia. You've given banks, banks don't determine anywhere in the EU, they determine everything and regular interest but you've given them now to determine and tighten, they're holding everything in their hands. Correct it, wash it off the face of legal science, from all those who act on functions, do not touch on insignificant and secondary things because the Executive Law needs a whole new one, if you want something to read another, do this, this is the essence, we free Croatia from the debt cemetery.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148855	Thank you. Mr. Vlaovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148856	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Lovrinovic said the law should allow it to be cheaper and more efficient to carry out executive procedures. But the key is that you too pointed out that both the interest and the costs imposed in the process and the public notebooks that remain in the system but other law offices only increase that agony of our citizens and that, regardless of what the proposer determines the amount of these fees, they are still too high and as long as interest and costs are first charged and only then the principal is irreparable we will still have not 260 thousand blocked in Croatia will continue to increase the level of debt and we will have one dissatisfaction with such amounts and such laws. In particular, I call on you to support our proposal by HSS to abolish the payment of the subscription to the HRT, which is used by the Hanžekovic lawyer office which continues to charge the charges and one large number of our blocked citizens is from that area. And that's certainly not good, and you need to cancel the subscription and you need to cancel the law offices in that process.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148857	Thank you. Mr. Lovrinović has the answer, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148858	Dear colleague Vlaovic, I declare this, so it is very clear that I support your proposal to remove all such executions that have been launched. HRT is one of the biggest performance generators in Croatia, people don't know that enough, and we will explore it in particular, especially because it has become a party television, it has not become a public service. In front of the cameras and in front of the citizens, we're going to cancel all the unfair debts in the new government, and that's why I came into politics. There will be no democracy and freedom in Croatia while the terror of financial oligarchy debts is on the scene, while present. We need men, Solon in the fourth century B.C., freed the Greeks from unfair debts. We're in the 21st century and we're called a new civilization, a modern age, and you see to what extent debt slavery is present.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148859	Thank you. Now let's move on with the draft law and the individual speeches. It's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148861	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The executive law is one of the most crucial laws that should be, which should be in the interest of every man because in us are executions, executive procedures are privatized. The moment the state said it couldn't handle the courts on its own, that they couldn't carry out the executive procedures at that point, the executive proceedings were privatised. In this privatisation of the executive procedures, a huge food chain was created from law firms to public notebooks, to debt seekers who registered as legal firms and of course that food chain is quite powerful and influential in all spheres of how the political, media, food chain that creates its empires in executive procedures is influenced. When we look at this proposal of the executive law that it is visible here in this proposal that what was proposed in 2017 to be 50 thousand kunas that can't be carried out real estate now is said to be 40, it means two years, although it's not a solution to real estate and it's much more worth it. Also, when we look at the law itself, we have this period of winter when there are no evictions, i.e. I believe it's an insufficient measure, and really when you've changed, I say when the executive law changed that they simply didn't get results, so they won't get these either. It's a simple system and a food chain that we need to get back to the courts on the poor. We need to get back to the state. The courts that have to tell us we're capable of carrying it out. I think the minister believes that the courts can do so and that there are enough personnel in the Republic of Croatia who can implement it, and that this food chain that created the empire should be cut and let's be realistic, has a big impact on the political options, because this food chain is how law firms, how public notebooks are certainly well involved in those who decide within the system and influence political options and on media space. So, here it's all clear, we here as assembly representatives with all the mistakes, just before the colleagues from the Living Wall were now saying, that none of us who was in the assembly ever did anything for the people, didn't work for the people, it's now that I tell you that you didn't do anything for the people. So I think that at this point we all need to cut that umbilical cord and return the executive procedures that will be much cheaper for the state and for the citizens, because the state is in the interest of citizens, not the food chain that will be richer in the performance. Could it have been done a lot more before? Not that it could, but it had to. The fact is that with us, the functioning of the judiciary is under great question. The biggest problem in Croatian society is the judiciary, and the executive proceedings when you gave it, I think the minister will agree that the executive procedure is privatised. And this story of the fact that there are no more public notebooks in this law, they are no longer called so rather than court commissioners. Now your public notaries have finally as the EU, the European Commission has not been harmonised, said that public notebooks cannot participate in this process and are now no longer called in the executive procedure by those public notaries but by them as court commissioners. Well, my people can probably hire young lawyers in courts, and one job can get rid of the same thing, but all these errands just change in a computer name and last name up, everything else is the same and stint. So it's no problem and I believe there are professional, young people who can do it. And you ministers question whether this government has the strength, whether it has the courage and the impact of the food chain, I repeat the food chain that it means, which it privatized, which holds the executive procedure. I said that means by privatizing the executive procedure, the food chain has increased, we have lawyers, we have public notebooks, we have debt seekers, debt seekers who call people, they're harassing people, and he's registering it as a legal firm to provoke people, families, neighbors, to cheer. It is a fact and unfortunately a question of whether you have the Ministry, whether this Parliament has as much as it matters how many of us, whether we have the strength to cut that tape. I'm about to cut that food chain. Me personally. And I will support any such initiative. Because this law absolutely except for certain, like all previous, could be done more is. When he was my minister, I criticized him. The minister who was with the MOST, I criticized him most strongly, and he had good intentions, I believe he had good intentions. However, here is a question of courage whether we can pass a law that will be in the center of a man or be a food chain that feeds on him and the individual in the Republic of Croatia. Will this law be in the interest of an individual? At this point all these changes, complements are not in the interest of man and individual. And that's what the people must hear and, of course, you ministers must hear from me that moment I suggest that the food chain of the law firm, the public notebooks, the debtors of the debts that have been registered as companies to cut off and take over these courts. Well, I guess there's a law school, and we have law schools that can do it. That's my suggestion for your second reading. And at that moment when we cut the food chain that, but mostly in that food chain at the top, everyone created their own empires. So this is very simple, we need to get back to the starting positions, unfortunately since the executive procedures were privatized from that moment on, this is all happening. And here it's simple, whether most of us have opposition, no matter who it is, because of the people to pass one law for a man, for a people, one only, not for the individual interests of certain groups that suck out blood to the people. Here, I think Ministers that you've figured out what I said, until the second reading, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148862	Thank you for your accuracy, 10 exact minutes. And now Mr. Pernar will give a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148863	Your Honor, I would like to say that by the new Implementing Law, all people who have been completed so far, i.e. people who are in a blockade, who are piled up with huge and huge costs of enforcement for their new law, will not be able to pass anything because it is not retroactive, because in translation it means only apply to new cases of execution and thus all of them blocked by it will essentially not benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148864	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148865	Dear fellow MP Pernar, exactly, means there is no retroactivity but the days of the law. And these little shifts that are now 40,000 kunas, before there was, no more, up to 40,000 kunas no more on the real estate, over the winter period there's no meaning of action, so they'll just have to stop by spring, so they're minor. But I also believe that once again, I call on the parliamentary representatives of either the majority, or the opposition, the minister, the government to finally stop, it is privatized to mean the executive procedure and to cut off this umbilical, umbilical species that suck out the blood of our people, which is all that came during the privatisation of the executive procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148866	Thank you, too. Now it's Mr. Martin Baricevic's turn. He's gone. He's losing his right. And Mr. Ante Babic is the last to speak individually. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148867	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. So, at the very beginning, I want to say that there is a purpose in the market economy in all regulated countries and no one can escape from it. A social state such as Croatia certainly needs to be looked after by those citizens who are not their own better or because of sickness or conditioned in any way by others came into debt slavery. That's actually the reason and this proposal of the Executive Law. But because of the bill itself, the public needs to actually say the structure of the blocked or several statistical indicators. So in 31.5.2018, there were 326 thousand 379 citizens in the blockade and 31.5.2019, so a year later there were 259 thousand and 233 citizens. The debt of citizens from the base of the capital has been reduced by 27 billion kuna. More specifically, in 31.5.2018, the debt was 43.6 billion kuna and a year after 31 May 2019, it amounted to 16.63 billion kuna. When dismembering this debt, in fact 6.3 billion kuna of the debt of the perpetrators, concerns financial institutions, mostly banks, credit institutions, agencies, insurance companies, what is related to card business, as well as Leasing and social factors. 97 thousand, namely 97 077 citizens, have a debt according to information and communication activities, or teleoperators, so 100,000 of these 259 thousand are owed to teleopers. 1500 citizens have a debt of more than 1 million kuna, so 1500 citizens owe more than 1 million kuna. What does this law actually bring, that is, this bill? On a fee of 3 thousand kuna, for FINA, for public records fees, for legal expenses, for the cost of implementation, 843 kuna has been paid so far, according to this proposal, that cost is 292 kuna. For the amount of 6 thousand kuna, the cost was 2469 kuna, and according to the new one is 412.50 kuna. Therefore, this proposal for a law provides for a alignment with the EU court's ruling, guaranteeing independence and impartiality, respect for the principle of contradictoryness of the procedure, which is well spoken of by counterpart Varda. In fact, jurisdiction becomes a rule, a cheaper implementation of the procedure, protection of the dignity of the debtors, a centralised implementation of the procedure and an extension of the circle of acceptances excluded from the exercise. From today's debate, and also interested in the adoption of this law, a lot of things have been crystallized that can improve this bill, so I am glad that all this time there were present representatives and the Ministry of Justice, who could actually hear these proposals, and the minister himself was talking about, in his introduction, that it would be good actually through all the proposals and suggestions presented today until the 2nd reading, of course, to include them through the analysis of the Ministry of Justice in the 2nd reading of this law. I am a person firmly in that position that one who has a debt must repay it, that it is actually an obligation that must be respected, it is actually one foundation that can be talked at all, to pass a good and just law. What was actually said today in the debate on behalf of the club, as well as in individual debates, should be said next. So it was evident that the things that happen and act as parasites are unnecessary because of the intervention in the matter of this law. So, the archduke fills out the form and delivers it himself to the court, it's done by automation. In fact, the public notary calls the perpetrator to fulfill his obligation within 15 days or to challenge himself. The performer actually has two possibilities. Either to settle the debt as such, or to suspend the performance or to challenge the very demand itself, and at the moment he contests it, he actually goes into litigation. And yet another possibility exists, if the perpetrator is not manifested at all, then the court brings a solution to the matter. Both last and worst for the debtor, when the court actually puts a confirmation of power and enforcement and delivers it to the FINAs for implementation, and this procedure, as far as we've heard, is done by automation. Today, the advances, which the debtor is obliged to pay in order to begin the procedure at all, were also problematic. That's a lot of trouble, and I think that's what the Department of Justice needs to think about, with the second reading, because it's an extra cost to the debtor. The deadlines for public notebooks are prescribed, but they are not prescribed for court. It was a problem, and I was thinking about it, so when a public notary, and in the case of a lawsuit, the court can solve the case for half a year, a year, two or three, but then there's interest, and I think it's an additional cost for a debtor who's not really guilty because of the deadline of the case. Then the delivery that can be partly done via e-Citizens was problemed, because if we have already introduced that system, then we must further improve it only and use it as much as possible. The SDP proposal and the Bridge proposal were, in fact, to do everything in court and through court, to completely exclude public notebooks. The proposals of the associations we also heard through actual statements and individual discussions of individual representatives were that the main debt was first paid, and only then real interest and minimum costs, although Mr. Alexic spoke of first charging the costs of the implementation without the FINA and the public notebooks. By them, this way of debt actually becomes repayable, but it also speaks of the ransom of debt. In fact, a fellow coat of arms set a concrete example when he spoke about the inability to pay, if someone has a 200 thousand kuna loan, and has a salary of 4 thousand kuna, it is therefore impossible to repay that loan. Now, I'm asking a question that this credit institution actually gives someone 200 thousand kuna on the salary of 4 thousand kunas, so it's possible it's some kind of populism, but I don't believe there's some credit institution that would approve that amount of credit on such a small amount of income. I personally take this bill of law as a way to pay off a good concept, both for the believer and for the debtor. Of course, if it were good to think about any of the causes, not the consequences, but we're where we are and we actually have numbers that are uninvited and that's what we're working on. For example, if the court is going to complete digitisation, then the whole procedure should be considered to be digitised by the court, it would certainly be more efficient, it wouldn't last long, it would reduce the length of the proceedings, but it would reduce the cost itself. This law is extremely, extremely important because of too many citizens, and it is very important for me, as long as there is any improvement in and from the credentials, debtors, professions, laws, so I would be very careful and would respect all that the laws and legislation of the Republic of Croatia say, but also the EU directives that interested parties actually get security and protection and justice and justice in solving, economics, to take care of social sensitivity. The political will of this government exists, and so is this bill, and I am sure that until the second reading of this law and many suggestions and suggestions here will be incorporated into another reading. On the other hand, through this debate, you don't actually need to send messages that debtors actually feel they shouldn't pay back their debt, in large numbers some of them, that they can actually borrow without any consequences which would not be good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148868	Thank you. But you have one replica from Mr. Alexic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148869	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear counterpart Babić, we must have the executive law, that is clear, all those who say that the executive law should be abolished, they do not realize that the executive law must exist. However, I have already said that we can fix this executive law in a way that introduces certain provisions that will help people who are blocked at this time. All that I propose, absolutely everything is in line with EU law, the Republic of Croatia and other Croatian laws, the EU court has already made several rulings that speak in favour of what I said and therefore, the only defence of such provisions that would help people exit the blockade within 2.3 years is the Government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives representing most of the Croatian Parliament. If you don't accept that, you will be responsible because people will remain in blockades for another 100 years, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148870	Mr. Babic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148871	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I certainly won't be responsible for some people who, because of their irresponsibility, have actually come into debt slavery, but I say, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia and as part of it, at least in that legislative sense, surely I will do everything I can to make it easier for them to pay off a large number of blocked citizens. I've been following your discussions for two or three years, and I've listened to your individual debate even though I haven't been there and I know about your demands, and I know about your demands at the Justice Department and in this law, and I'm sure that certain things will be accepted, there are European court rulings that you've been talking about today, which will also be incorporated into this law. I hope until the second reading that everything heard through suggestions and recommendations today here in the Croatian Parliament, that they will be carefully analysed and that everything will be done to reduce the number of blocked which is certainly in the interest of each government and the HDZ Government in a special way.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148872	Thank you, Mr. Babic. Minister Drazen Bosnjakovic will now speak finally on behalf of the promoter, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148873	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. First of all, I thank everyone for the debate we've had here today, and in the debate, we've brought out the whole question that we're going to, some of which we've already done quite significantly and significantly analyzed before we got here, but we're going to reopen the debate actually on every issue that's open today. The most frequently mentioned was actually the role of public notebooks, most often mentioned the role of actually other participants in the process where you showed your desire to be as few participants as possible. We're going to open the question, we're going to see, our intentions were actually when we leave public notebooks and FINA in this whole process, so we don't bury the courts and make new delays in terms of millions of pending cases again, we can't afford that anymore. One important step we're taking here is the digitization of this whole process and you're parties I think is a good relevant step that will actually contribute to speed. Also the important question that is open here today is interest, is the order of collection whether when something is paid needs to be taken away immediately from the principal or from the interest, it is now a question that we will also re-open the debate and in some multidisciplinary way because there is a Ministry of Finance and other institutions that can give relevant answers, and we will consult even more strongly some practice that exists. I'd just like to say, in total debt when we were 324, it seems to me thousands of blocked, then the main one was 60 billion kuna, there were 40 on the main one, and these were interest rates and some expenses in all of that. There was an open question of the task force, the task force was very white on this project, back in the 1st month. 2018 was published with names, last names on the web pages of our ministry, and for the first time we tried to actually capture through a working group and those groups that represent conditionally said debtors and those people who are actually in the business of organizations that are dealing with it and what they can say, no one, absolutely no one was driven out of that working group, it was possible for everyone to discuss and propose, some felt the need to do it more outside than to be at the table at which it was discussed. We've stepped up, as you can see, the obligor's intelligence. Before it goes into action, we insist that people be informed that they are in debt and here we also count that a good part of these performances will actually be eliminated already in that step because today we have an entire n out of the objection where they say that I knew I would pay. Now, we've said in this whole thing, he's got to be notified twice by direct delivery, so if he doesn't get through in those two times, then that third time goes on the ad board. Representative Aleksic also asked a number of questions related to the participation of lawyers in this executive procedure when it comes to legal persons. Look, I'm afraid that if this law were to specifically defend us now we would be in the constitutional problem but this procedure that we prescribe and this digitisation that we prescribe, I think that many will motivate in fact that there is no need because in the first step we are also reducing the cost and simplifying because we no longer have the composition of the proposal for a performance. We have a fill-in with a digital form prescribed by the minister. So I don't think we should have this as a problem in practice. You have also set this up for the order of payments, we will look at it but this time multidisciplinaryly because we are not the Ministry of Justice most suitable for these issues, so we will actually engage and see from all other aspects. As regards the suspension of the exercise when it comes to enforcement under contracts that have evidence that it is worthless or that some of its provisions are unfair. We today have in law a provision that says that the court can, that is, it can and does not have to, that it can terminate proceedings until this issue is settled in another court. We're going to look at it, analyze whether it's possible to take some kind of action and suggest some kind of stronger, stronger solution. There were talks about the only real estate and actually real estate in the business. We've given this really special attention, we've raised and said there's no execution on real estate if the principal is up to 40,000 kuna. When you add to that interest, the costs, then it's in principle and more. Okay, we'll discuss it until the second reading we'll see if we've set it right or it can be like this, like, that's kind of an open question. But here I'm saying that in the protection of the only real estate we've actually made a pretty important step because in law, we've actually made it through these last amendments to the executive law. Because by then, you could have led to the only real estate, no matter what. We are already in the changes that have been said today that is impossible, the principle is that there is no enforcement on the only real estate unless you as the owner of the property agree to and be the subject of the execution. There were objections that some people would be forced to lend a mortgage on real estate because they would not receive a loan or all of it. But you know, it's every single individual and citizen's decision because we said here that we would prevent some people who have a certain employment, who have a good job, who have high wages, which makes them threaten to give up the only real estate. That's where I think we'd be in some kind of very, very dubious constitutionality. So it was the same, it wasn't the subject of this law, this law really works profuto, it doesn't work on what it was today, it's in force today, but the government has really made efforts through that set of three laws to unblock some of the people and to get some of the people out of it. We actually came from 320 grand to some 250 grand. What someone said was that 70 grand was unblocked, so it's blocked again immediately, that's not true. 70,000 people are also unblocked but it's not a permanent solution and we warned and we said when we passed that law. However, not every other one is blocked again, but out of those 70,000 from something close to 7,000 people, the believers reopened the account. We said and warned that actually when someone has been blocked for more than 3 years that the percentage of the success rate of the new blockade is 1.17%, so here's some reality but still the credentials are meant to be in a certain number, much smaller than what's said decided to re-block. So we have in principle some 80,000 cases in courts of simple consumer bankruptcy where we expect that the number blocked through this measure will also be reduced during this year and next year. And I want to end this really in a way that we all have to send a message together that when we make commitments, we all have to take care of our ability to make those commitments and execute them, whether it's some kind of act, whether it's paying some kind of cash claim and we can't encourage anyone in principle that tomorrow we don't have to pay anything. So on that side, this isn't the social character law anywhere in the world, it's the law that enters the scene when it means there isn't a regular fulfillment of the demand for such or such. And that's why this law is pretty heavy and it's pretty complex actually. Here we will prepare ourselves for another reading, about each of these remarks, the proposal that you have said, we will be particularly obvious, and here we will be very quick to see that we are back in procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148874	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have three replicas. The first replica was sought by Mr. Lovrinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148875	Thank you. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I can see from what you've listed to be dealing with the technical issue. You do not continue to adopt a proposal to pay each party in the process for its part of the costs of the executive procedure. I said right away 70% will decrease the number of such cases. Secondly, there is no crucial order of payment of the principal interest, these are more or less, however crucial are the tightening interest and unilateral change of interest rates by banks which have already been convicted unfairly. So why don't you talk about tight interest? Run as Minister of Procedure in front of the Constitutional Court, above all on the legality of applying the current interest rate imposed by banks to loans to citizens, you understand, to natural persons, so who determined it if not them. Go back to it if you want to help this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148876	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148877	In fact, I've told you that we're going to devote ourselves to tight interest, order and all of this, and that we're going to try to look multidisciplinaryally at those who are actually more professional than we are at the Department of Justice about these issues. We certainly will. As far as costs are concerned, I don't think it would be fair for you to bear the cost, I owe you, and yet you carry on your back the cost of what I pay you back. That's how we discussed it, and I don't think it would be in the spirit of the Constitution or that would be fair. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148878	Please don't, not like that. Mr. Vucelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148879	Dear Minister, you are once again protecting one very important wheel in the executive mafia and these are public notebooks. You're saying if we now lift public notebooks in the executive procedure that the courts will be overcrowded. That's just not true. You, if you need to hire an extra 50 judges who will only deal with it, is no problem. Among other things, you can take these judges who now work as public notebooks, i.e. They quit their last job. Why? Because this is much cheaper. Here are the million-dollar amounts. And you, your party caught them in those places, you gave them this job for those millions of benefits they're taking for some of their services. Now that those are favors, I won't talk about it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148880	Answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148881	Thank you very much. You see very well that this law fully redefines the role of public notebooks and significantly reduces the fees they make, which they charge whether they are in the system or not, there are jobs that someone has to do. Those jobs that someone has to do have a price on them. So if they don't, they'll do something else and we'll pay it in other ways. And this is a big step in relation to those fees that were until yesterday, which are today, what we're predicting for tomorrow. But we'll talk more, see if there's room.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148882	Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148883	Minister, as I said in the debate, the state said it was not independent to conduct executive proceedings, then privatisation came. In the privatisation, there was a food chain, and that's what I was talking about in the debate. Food chain, not only law firms, public notebooks, houses that claim debts that have been registered as normal, but it is terror over people. We need to bring in favor of the man of this law, to make it as small as possible, i.e. the price of the executive procedure. This way it will not be achieved. And mostly public notebooks aren't, we have one mask here, you say court commissioners, but they're public notebooks. You have only done this in order to comply with the European Commission's directive so as not to call themselves public notaries but court commissioners anymore. So it's still a privatized system, the executive procedure is privatized and the food chain is huge. If we have the courage for the people, we need to cut that umbilical cord. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148884	Thank you. Minister, here's your answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148885	Thank you very much. We've been really trying here, and the cost of consciousness to some reasonable measure, we'll see for another reading if it's possible to go further and we'll come up with a proposal. But what we have presented in this proposal is that we think it's sustainable that in fact all those jobs that are done are both within the law offices and in the context of the notary offices that this is now something else that was. Let's not forget that lawyers won't have a whole one store anymore, actually two won't have one. They won't have the composition of a proposal to carry out, and they won't have the power of attorney. That's pretty significant. And you know it's a job that requires certain work and that work has its price.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148886	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate and we'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148887	Proposal for an Executive Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 676, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal from the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for an Implementing Law is hereby adopted. 2.All objections and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that the majority of votes are 76 for, 7 abstentions and 24 against the conclusion proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148888	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, second reading, P.Z. No. 684; Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 75. Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 207 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. As it is an international contract, such documents are actually adopted, such laws are generally adopted in a single reading. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 197. The Rules of Procedure and the debate were conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security and the Committee on Justice. Would Mr. Secretary of State Josip Salapic like to take an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The Republic of Croatia is the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, drawn up in Warsaw on 16 May 2005, which took effect on 1 May 2008. The situation in the area of Iraq and Syria 5 years ago led to the adoption of a UN Security Council resolution 2178 of 24 September 2014 aimed at preventing the activities of foreign terrorist fighters as well as the establishment of an information exchange mechanism by foreign terrorist fighters 24 hours a day all 7 days a week. The Council of Europe also reacted in a way that complemented the Convention with provisions of the additional protocol covering these emerging situations, primarily the growing number of individuals going to foreign wars to join terrorist organisations and later return to their countries of origin, some with intention to carry out terrorist attacks in those countries. The aim of this Protocol is to harmonise the laws of the Member States of the Council of Europe to facilitate mutual cooperation and to prevent and combat terrorism more effectively. At its meeting on 18 October 2017, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the additional protocol concluded. The Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia at the Council of Europe, Mr Miroslav Papa, on 26 October 2017, signed an additional protocol on behalf of the Republic of Croatia. This law confirms this additional protocol so that its provisions become part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148890	Thank you, too. The replicas go first, Mr. Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148891	Thank you very much. Dear Secretary, a protocol on the prevention of terrorism because this law, which essentially speaks about a protocol on the prevention of terrorism, raises countless questions as to what circumstances the Republic of Croatia is currently in the framework of the EU, not just the Council of Europe. The fact is that the migrant crisis, that we have the Marrakech compact that we have accepted and our surrounding countries, our neighbours, have not accepted the Marrakek Agreement, which means that Croatia is much more endangered than our neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, we are not, the Parliament has not acted democratically or discussed this great problem and the potential terrorist potential of the enormous crisis, so answer, in what circumstances is Croatia concerned about the Marraket compact and what are you doing about it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148892	Answer, Mr. Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148893	Dear Representative Bulj, the question that you have asked us in part, or to a large extent, is beyond this additional protocol that I was talking about, these are questions that need to be asked to the MUP of the Republic of Croatia when you are specifically talking about this so that I cannot answer this, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148894	Does the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate first by clubs, the first Mr. Miroslav Tudjman to speak in front of the HDZ Representatives' Club, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of an Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. The purpose of this flow is, as is said, to supplement the provisions of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, and in that sense I think that this Protocol should be supported with certain notes that it would like to say. The purpose, essence or what is important in this Protocol is that it is aimed at preventing activities, a quote from foreign terrorist fighters as in establishing a mechanism for the exchange of information on foreign terrorist fighters 24 hours a day for all 7 days a week. The Protocol further incriminates the following acts related to terrorism but with notices. First, if they are committed unlawfully and deliberately and secondly if domestic law is prescribed as a criminal offence. It's about the following incriminations. The quote, participation in an organisation or group for the purpose of terrorism." means by participating in activities, organisations or groups for the purpose of committing or contributing to the launch of one or more terrorist offences. Other incrimination, attending terrorism training if it was committed unlawfully or with intent. The third incrimination, travel abroad for terrorist purposes, has again been committed unlawfully and with intent. The fourth is to finance foreign travel for terrorist purposes if it is committed unlawfully and with intent. And also, organising or otherwise facilitating travel abroad for the purpose of terrorism. Here I emphasized this particular formulation if it was committed unlawfully or with intent, precisely because it can be proven wrongly or even there is evidence but the intention is always something that is not easy to prove and easy to attribute to someone. By attributing the intention without sufficient data and evidence, human rights of individuals or business of certain business entities may be jeopardised. Obviously, this is one dimension where those who have adopted this protocol are also aware because in 2 articles in this Protocol they warn. On the one hand, every force is thought of as a state, ensuring that the implementation of this Protocol respects human rights obligations and, in particular, the right to freedom of movement, freedom of expression, freedom of association, etc. Therefore, this is one restriction in which it is necessary to ensure that this Protocol does not conflict with the application of this Protocol and the other is said in the same way in another terminology, that the implementation and application of the incrimination of this Protocol should be subject to the principle of proportionality with respect to legitimate objectives set and their necessity in a democratic society in order to exclude any form of arbitraryness and discrimination. And now we have a problem that I'd like to warn you about, this protocol requires each country to define a contact point for information exchanges. It is said here that in Croatia so far it has been the service of terrorism, the administration of the criminal police during working hours and, outside of working hours and on weekends and days of work, will be the service for international police co-operation of the same criminal police administration. However, it seems to me precisely because of this sensitivity that you have to prove your intention for something to travel or train or to train for terrorism, I think it is good to include in this contact point the Ministry of Justice or, precisely, determine the institution and the employees who will evaluate any request and any information that goes into exchange from the point of view of the protection of the human rights of individuals or the protection of the rights of the organisation or institutions for fair business because there can otherwise be manipulation in this area. Another problem that may arise is that, in the event of such transmissions of such information or the exchange of such information, on the basis of police reports or safety assessments which may, in a certain percentage, prove untrustworthy or untrustworthy and incorrect, which in this case happens when, if such data has already gone from Croatia to other countries, which are procedures and protocols that such data will in that case be subsequently deleted, which guarantees and control mechanisms that such data are deleted or that guarantees that such data will not be used for other purposes but only for those for which they are intended. I think that in the future it may appear as a problem and should therefore be defined in advance. The third is one question or warning, the protocol provides that any country may, either at the time of signing this Protocol or in the future, determine the territorial application to which this Protocol applies or to which countries it will apply. This application decision can be amended, changed over time, and this part should not be disputed, but today we have not heard in which area or areas Croatia will be participated or applied this Protocol and on the other hand, it would be good to know either which institution or which procedure to define these areas of application was either in the immediate time or in the future, whether it is the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic, whether it is the MUP or how and how both the Croatian Parliament or its Committee on Internal Policy and National Security on the change of these areas will be informed or participated in one way or another. Here are some of these remarks or warnings that we must take care of, therefore, it is not disputed to accept this protocol but we must be aware that it can also be caused by some negative consequences in the event that they are particularly Croatian citizens and companies that can, because of the fact, inaccurate or incomplete data in certain situations, come into an unsolicited position. HDZ will accept this protocol, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148896	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Miro Bulj's turn in front of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, here you go, Mr. Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148897	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues, this proposal for a Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Reduction of Terrorism, of course, concerns Croatian citizens and us personally, however, under the circumstances, we are talking about this protocol as the previous said, with all the shortcomings and limitations that are not mentioned i.e. What we need to be careful of, of course, in the freedom of our citizens who are traveling, who are acting and working, of course we must also have natural and legal persons, we must have contacts with all organisations and work to prevent, means to reduce terrorism. However, as I said, the Republic of Croatia is in a specific position because in Croatia come citizens who simply and do not possess any documentation or know where they come from,... The area comes because we have a current migrant crisis, we witness it every day, that we have illegal entry and therefore, we have a much bigger problem than our neighbouring country, I think that Croatia should be involved in both the frameworks and the Council of Europe and various protocols, all of which we can bring, but Croatia is currently threatened because the speaker is not understood./... is imposed, imposed, because the Parliament did not discuss this without debate in the Croatian Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So at this point we have one dictatorship of accepting what our neighbours did not accept, so the Slovenians, so the Italians, the Austrians, all who had not accepted the Marrakek compact, i.e. The agreement and we at this point, Your Honor, no matter what you said, I'm calling the department, the police, but you're part of the government. When we talk about the security of citizens and the Republic of Croatia and how they can easily go to other countries, however, the current situation of the Republic of Croatia due to the behaviour of our political elites and the departure of our interior minister to Marrakesh brings Croatia into an unequal position from our neighbours who are all EU members. Therefore, I would use these few minutes just to warn you because I remember the moment when the board, the committee responsible for this debate, Miro Kovac is the chairman of the board of directors, when it is not easy for other members to propose at all, members of the board to suggest that these problems concerning possible terrorism in this migrant crisis, which we, by accepting the Marrakech compact, are either acceptable or possible to be, whether terrorist entry or not, are being discussed. But the fact is that Croatia has adopted the Marrakech Agreement without debate of the Croatian Parliament. And now we accept protocols that are of course significant. We must co-operate with international organisations, Councils of Europe, European, all of whom, in preventing terrorism. But I don't know why you're even bringing this to the Parliament. And the question arises, when we can't discuss a key problem in the Republic of Croatia, it's a migrant crisis, it's this Marrakech agreement. And Croatia accepted it without debate, without a referendum, of course no one asked for it, but without debate in Parliament because then the president was Mr Kovac, not allowed to vote on this proposal on the board. And I think a lot that your government is more democratic, because we've taken over our duty, and our commissioner is also a democracy, so it would have been a lot more democratic if it had been discussed the compact here and the Croatian Parliament. I think that fellow Milosevic is laughing that it would be correct if we had discussed the Marrakech Agreement, if it could have discussed why we couldn't. However, we probably got a warrant from Germany that we had to accept but of course the Italians didn't accept it, let me give me some reason why. Which is why they are not Austrians, which is why they are not Hungarians. So this Parliament is being devalued so that you can bring this along without us. What's going to happen, I think the Parliament is offended, can be freely abolished because it occurred then to Andrej Plenkovic to save Miro Kovac, because who knows what the circumstances were, that the simple proposal that Bozo Petrov made at the time as a member of the board of directors, made it possible to vote on that committee, there was a colleague, Miroslovan Tudjman, he witnessed it, and the public saw it because the cameras and they recorded it and sent it, it was not possible to vote on the conclusion of the committee in charge to come to the Marrakekish Agreement in the debate in this, now I can call him so-called. High home. So send all these protocols without us, take responsibility. Because you are above Parliament, this government is above Parliament. Probably Tajani, fascist on or Vučić wrote to you, your pučana, a declaration of exemption from the Croatian Assembly from deciding on very important matters. So this irritates us more, not security, and what's in the protocol, it's necessary than it irritates us that you're giving this to the parliamentary deputies to discuss this and much more important things, a lot more important things like the Marrakech Agreement that can affect a lot more, which can happen to terrorism because we need to know that among those who come from the Syria area that are now migrants from the area that have been numerous warriors and that they have no problem doing a terrorist act. And God forbid such an act happens mainly that we're a tourist state. Therefore, this government has offended this House, all of these protocols you bring us, which is why you brought them to us, you could have sent them through Plenkovic Miri Kovac to the board, Miro Kovac would have voted for it and that's it. Because much more important, much more important document that Croatia has accepted, has accepted without debate in this House. Here's a fellow Milosevic laughing because he's aware that I'm telling the truth and that this is true. But I still consider the influential Mr. Mira Kovac, I would never say what he said, the most democratic person in Croatian history, Croatian leader Andrej Plenkovic, that as a Finnish, he had an impact on making decisions for a man who was president and committee, a man who was former minister there. But the fact that he played for Andrej Plenkovic then... Now, in what frameworks and circumstances, but it saddens me not because of Andrej Plenkovic, Mira Kovac, Mr Milosevic, Stier, Mr Tudjman, Shuker, but because we have offended this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The Croatian government headed by Andrej Plenkovic has insulted the Croatian Parliament, brought it to never lower levels, put itself above the Parliament with several tokens, so it is not a few, it has a good taste of the chips with which it calls. And that's it. You who have offended us are now sending us protocols. And in the Croatian Parliament, we were unable to discuss the Marrakech Agreement. You take this back, give it to Andrej Plenkovic, Andrej Plenkovic to direct the committee to Mr Mira Kovac and vote without debate. You just told me to ask the M.O.P. So as you feel in the government that didn't allow HS to discuss the Marrakech Agreement, very important, very important because of what our neighbours didn't accept, I repeat neither the Italians nor the Austrians, nor the Hungarians and many other states, but I am talking and we are now discussing the Council of Europe Protocol on the Prevention of Terrorism. You send a lipo to Mira Kovaca, Miro Kovač, without any conclusions, as you write it to him so it will be voted. Once again, I warn that since the vice-president of the Croatian Commission is with the first secretary of the Council of Europe is from the Republic of Croatia, the former minister who really fought for the interests of the Republic of Croatia, so that she forgot about chapter 23, 24, whether Serbia respects him and this is a major blow possible tourist to Croatian, particularly defenders who are left to have jurisdiction over Croatian defenders, but she is now here in the Council of Europe, but much more important to her were projects such as the Peruca Termoelectrica and her husband and more, she received her award. These protocols are very important, I believe they have meaning, I believe that cooperation against terrorism is very important, I believe that we are trying to defend against it, we are currently trying to defend against those who are preventing the democratic procedure in this HS. However, the fact is that your response to this protocol you have given me is to ask the MUP, it simply does not hold water because you have offended, which is what Andrej Plenkovic and this government have offended HS. I would really like one of the following, here is Mr. Škorić to deny me in this and whether he had the opportunity to discuss the Marrakech Agreement regardless of what Italy did, Austria did not allow it. And today we have an increase in other organizations, we see that right next to us in Banja Luka line up troops under Chetnik features, well armed, along the border of the Republic of Croatia, there is naturally their leader, former beginner Chetnik Vukic with Seselj, so we have a lot of threats in this area, I think we're trying to seriously discuss possible terrorism and these things should not be stopped, and of course we're trying to fear the statements your coalition is talking about, I'm asking if you agree with a statement, do you accept that the RH is a fascist state, a terrorist state, and that it will happen to her as well as what happened to the NDH. If you agree with that, and you are, if you are still in the coalition, I do not mind fellow Pupovac, he is implementing it, I will do it all the time to you, I do not blame my colleague Pupovac for what he said, he said, but that is the policy he is implementing, that is the policy of Raskovic, Stanimirović and such. So that's one terrorist act possible announced, although freedom of speech is a fact, but it's a very dangerous announcement to say that the Republic of Croatia will end up as NDH, it's not exactly, I don't know how you look at it. ... You said, but you don't have to tell me, you tell your coalition partner Pupovac, you tell me, you don't want to explain to me, what you're going to do to me, you tell everyone you're with, I don't think you're talking to me. [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] So...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148898	Don't debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148899	Don't try to convince me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148900	Please don't debate, finish, move on, finish...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148901	I've got two more minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148902	...your speech please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148903	Okay, here I'll accept you fellow Radin, I know, you don't have to be nervous now, I don't know you agree with that statement that RH is a fascist state and that it will end up as NDH. I think it's a threat to the Republic of Croatia, freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148904	Who did you tell?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148905	It's a threat.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148906	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148907	I think you're okay with the same thing?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148908	But who? You told me that?
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148909	So I'm asking you all.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148910	You have a warning because you have no right to address me and say it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148911	... a warning. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148912	Here's a warning...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148913	But you're nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148914	Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148915	Look, you don't know why you're nervous.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148916	Second warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148917	Here, we all have...
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148918	You'll get a second warning and a no speech, please go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148919	Here are all the questions I ask you regardless of the particular anxiety that the chairman has, I ask you a question whether you agree with the statement that the Republic of Croatia, that the Republic of Croatia is a fascist state, violent, discriminatory, and that it will end up as NDH, there is no worse statement. At the same time as he is tried by a journalist for spoken words and while Mr. Zivkovic, who lost two sons in Vukovar, is tried openly where the judge tells him that in loneliness he is complaining about his sons, while man could not look at a Cyrillic letter, not because he hates Cyrillic, but that man reminds the Chetnic hordes who drank will be meat we will slaughter Croats. I'm just asking you colleagues, but I'm not surprised to hear you say what you say, I can't understand it at all if you agree to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148920	It is correct to address a representative of the Government who has the right to answer you. It is very incorrect to address any representative because you have no right to replicate as you speak on behalf of the club. So I would ask you in a civilized way to address... Excuse me, wait a minute, Mr. Pernar, have I spoken to you? [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] No, then please remain silent... The shot, okay? [[You can't hear a bogey from a bench.]] So, don't talk to the MPs because they don't have the right to replicate you, please contact when you speak individually. Thank you very much. Let's move on, Mr. Petar Škorić will now speak and this will be an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148921	Thank you very much. Honorable Vice President, Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. So here's to this Final Proposal for a Law on Confirming an Additional Protocol to the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, we have already pointed out and mentioned. We are all witnessing that terrorism has taken on a wider scale and that there is no country in the world that is not immune to terrorism, that terrorist attacks in recent times are not only directed against certain states but these are also attacks related to dissatisfied groups within certain groups, whether they are religious, economic, political or any other. Only last year, 13 people lost their lives in 24 jihad attacks in the EU, compared to 62 people in 33 religiously motivated terrorist attacks. In 2017, however, a certain reduction according to Europol data. So even though the number of these terrorist attacks on a religious basis remains in decline, terrorism is seen as one of today's greatest threats to the security of the state and society. The fight against this type of violence is becoming increasingly difficult and requires a growing and better connection in the international field in the fight against terrorism. In the last year alone, 511 people have been arrested in EU countries under suspicion of jihadist terrorism. Our country strongly condemns every form of terrorism at the world level that is a violation of fundamental rights and human freedom and opposes human dignity. Terrorism is also considered by all and regulations one of the most difficult forms of crime. Increased co-operation between EU member states and sharing information has helped to prevent these attacks or reduce numbers and reduce their impact. In the context of countering terrorism, our country is an active advocate of strict respect for international law with an emphasis on the UN Charter and the relevant international conventions and protocols that define this issue. The Secretary of State has already pointed out the regulations we have accepted and implemented and implemented. The purpose of this Additional Protocol is to supplement the provisions of the Convention with regard to the incrimination of actions described in Articles 2 to 6 of the Protocol, increasing the efforts of parties to prevent terrorism and its negative effects on the full achievement of human rights, and in particular the rights to life. In our country, there is a normative framework that allows for the persecution and sanctioning of the perpetrators of this crime of terrorism. For example, it is in the Penal Code. The 29th sentence for public encouragement to terrorism from one to ten years. This additional Protocol establishes, inter alia, a legally binding framework for the implementation of the UN Security Council Resolution of 24 September 2014 aimed at preventing the activities of foreign terrorist fighters as well as the establishment of mechanisms for the exchange of information on foreign terrorist fighters, thus constantly 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. The additional Protocol complements the Convention by provisions providing for the incrimination of the following actions, i.e. participation in association or groups for the purpose of terrorism, attending terrorism training, travelling to other countries for the purpose of terrorism, insurance or the collection of funds for such travel and organising and facilitating such travel. The final proposal of this Act to confirm an additional protocol on the prevention of terrorism is that our country wishes to join an initiative to strengthen international cooperation mechanisms at its prevention or effective sanctioning. This law will allow for both a more active and efficient fight against acts related to terrorism. Croatia is aware of the dangers of terrorism during the summer months when a large number of people enter our country. To safeguard the security of our citizens, cooperation in the fight against terrorism needs to be strengthened, and the adoption of this law is a major contribution to ensuring security in our country and beyond. By means of a protocol for the perpetrators of a crime against terrorism, there is a smaller possibility that they will remain unpunished. Therefore, the adoption of this Protocol ensures additional cooperation between States, parties and, in that sense, it is absolutely acceptable. And on the issues raised by colleagues who do not concern the adoption of this additional protocol and today's law on the threat of terrorism, related to its forms and phenomena, as well as what has been happening in our neighborhood in recent months, we can discuss as part of certain other topics within the National Security Parliamentary Committees, therefore, this issue. No one escapes from their opening, we encourage them, but certainly they are not the place to open on a parliamentary debate in a completely different topic. Croatia will certainly not accept that any Fascism is imposed on her, that in any way the Croatian society is Fascised, that the mud and mud and determination are cast upon us in this House to recognize such phenomena, that we condemn them vigorously because it is in all our best interests to build our free, independent and democratic Croatia on the basis of which it was established in the twentieth year, and everything else damages our future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148922	Mr. Tudjman was looking for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148923	Thank you. What should be reminded here is that this Convention has been adopted by the Council of Europe and that is why it is important what I have said before that we know the scope of this Convention by Croatia. As we know, the Council of Europe has 47 Member States, so it is not in itself clear which area this Convention applies to, in particular, because in some ways when we discussed it on the board, it is said by the proposings, so for the EU. It is not in itself understandable, or it is not precisely defined, and it is not said about this Convention that the Government is proposing, but who is it that proposes whether it is only the Ministry of the Interior or the Croatian Parliament or someone third.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148924	Thank you. Answer, here you go, Mr. Škorić.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148925	Well, here's colleague Tudjman, you're right, you pointed out that on the Committee on National Security, and that's why we adopted this Convention going into procedure with a practical fence to define the area to which it applies. Therefore, we believe that this is quite legitimate and fine because such indetermination opens up a number of other issues and many other problems. Therefore, regardless of how we implement practically in our legislation certain things from the EU, we should also look at possible gaps made in the very adaptation of this form of convention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148926	Thank you. Now it's Mr. Pernar's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148927	Thank you, Your Honor. The EU argues it is fighting terrorism, but Bulgarian journalist Diliana Gajtanjieva has published various documents suggesting otherwise if they are authentic. And she published the following things, she announced that the weapons from Serbia, that is, their weapons factory Krusik, U.S. government, transported through Sierra Four Industries to Podhum to the Grobnik warehouse, owned by the company, which is run by Croatia's Alan, and that from there, the weapons were flying through the airport in Krk to the Middle East. Now it was flying by companies, according to documents published by Atlas Air and Kalitta Air, and the destination was Qatar. And why does it matter? Because later on, that weapon from Serbia will appear in the hands of terrorists in Syria, people who have beheaded and killed people, civilians. Of course you'll tell Mr. Pernar it's an accident, however, if that's the case, that's the coincidence that it's a weapon. Now, what's very important is that the US government has obtained non-standard weapons from Serbia, so it has acquired weapons that are not according to NATO standards, which clearly purposed its role, which is to which the weapon is going. Then we have another situation, we have weapons of Serbian production and Bulgarian production in the hands of al-Qaeda in Yemen. And now, of course, the immediate question is why the Bulgarian version of Kalashnikov in the hands of terrorists in Yemen. The answer is that according to documents published by Dilian Gajtanjiev, the U.S. government hired Alliant Techsystems who then transferred arms from Krusik and Bulgaria with the help of an air carrier Silk Way Airlines from Belgrade as the airport of Kabul because the weapon was intended for the Afghan security forces. However, these planes stopped in Baku, Incirlik, and Prince Sultan to the air base and according to its claims, but also documents and facts from the field, resulting in their being emptied there and continuing empty to Kabul, which means that the weapons were then for the terrorists in Yemen. Now I'm asking you if everything that Dylana Gajtanjieva claims is true, if the documents are authentic and so far, as far as I know these documents, or their authenticity, no one has disputed, it turns out that the EU is like those characters, or that guy from Louis Stevenson's novel. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, on the one hand, plays one benevolent shepherd, a fighter against global terrorism, and, on the other hand, he's actually giving these terrorists arms in their hands. And why that's important, or what's the strongest argument actually. The documents themselves don't mean anything. They can be and don't have to be authentic. However, what indicates that they, that they may be authentic, is the fact that there is no other logical explanation than that if we see that weapon found in Syria, it was found in Yemen. How else could that weapon be found there? From Krushev, for example. Mino-bath grenades in Syria, or Krusik? These documents she published provide some, some convincing logical explanation. Of course, there is always the possibility that telepathic weapons or in some such mystical way have moved to Yemen or Syria, however, it is unlikely that this happened in some way in an alternative way. It's much more logical to explain what she's offering and, of course, supporting the documents. Now, I'm asking you what is the meaning of all the laws that we are making, what is the point of fighting the terrorism that we are fighting if at the same time it sinks and tons of weapons for millions and millions of dollars we deliver directly into the hands of terrorists who then spread their sphere of influence and terror over people. I personally believe that the EU together with America is the largest arms exporter on black. And why is that? Because destinations where the U.S. Government, through its own people, engages, or these various companies that are gun brokers, are actually supplying weapons to a variety of armed groups without knowledge, or rather than knowledge of the UN, which is better said to give weapons to those who should not otherwise be provided with weapons from the United States, or weapons from Europe, where they should not be organised by the American Government. All of this points to the fact that the American government did not arrest Victor Bout, or Victor Boutt was not extradited from Thailand to America for being tried for arms trafficking because he's an evil arms dealer, but Victor Bout, after whom an APB was ordered, and he was extradited to America, a man rotting in American prison, actually because the U.S. government was making competition. The U.S. government wanted to trade guns and he disrupted their business, disrupted their business because he was doing it at lower prices than the U.S. government and the ones they hired. On this occasion, I call on Croatia to stop participating in this work, to stop transporting weapons from Serbia to various terrorist zones and to leave NATO as a global guarantee of instability and unrest worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148928	And now it's Mr. Culey's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148929	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I will discuss disarmament, action and peace and speak well in my own way because I have been specifically involved in it in various ways. A long time ago, when one party handed over the territorial defence of Croatia to the enemy terrorist forces, which were in '91. again with these weapons through terrorist Chetnik organisations and former JNAs attacked the Croatian state, meaning with the same weapons that went from Croatia across our borders. That weapon was found again in Croatia but in the hands of terrorists. At the end of the Homeland War, there were a lot of weapons that we in the Liberation Action captured, so we taught these weapons through action peace and good, even being cash-rewarded for those weapons that we brought from those actions after the Homeland War, neatly handed over to the Croatian police, state-of-the-art, possible for destruction or preservation if they were in the right condition. Furthermore, the whole story goes like that in the war if a member of an anti-terrorist unit, one of the war commanders ends up in civility and moves on another action, I am left without a weapon because of some alleged possible intentions of my own, without war trophies and what I am emotionally bound by even that weapon. But it doesn't matter everything for the sake of anti-terrorism and the future without weapons. But the story doesn't stop there. The same ones who returned with Croatian weapons from '91. they were not covered by the action of peace and well at least in that part that they returned their weapons. So this weapon that attacked Croatia is still in Croatia, probably in Croatia, because there are few bunkers in some searches, there are various pieces of automatic weapons and explosive things, and that's still a car in Croatia. The SOA report has already said three times about the appearance of Chetnya, hence terrorist organisations neighbouring Serbia, which is increasingly emerging in Croatia. So SOA's third warning about it, but it doesn't seem to go any further than that, we don't have any other information about it. Chetnya exists a weapon has never been handed over and we have terrorist... possible today in Croatia, armed with our '91 weapons. A year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now the story doesn't stop there either. How? By coming to the Croatian Parliament between you here and that daily documentation that arrives at our table and that mail that we receive in our mailboxes we have more and more information about what is happening with us. So in Varazdin, it's close to us, there's one action going on, and it ends like this, I have a whole file, the Varazdin police have achieved one of the biggest weapons and explosives seized in their history, reporting the media in January of one year, saying that the intervention officers of the "PU of Varazdin" in two 41-year-olds from the Varazdin area found a whole arsenal of guns and rifles and ammunition and explosives. As part of the planned criminal research, as explained by the Chief of Police of Varazdinska Darko Jurčec, police officers were the personal vehicle of the renault lagoon used by the arrested men to find 20 guns, 16 automatic guns, 9 automatic rifles, multiple rounds of ammunition, almost 3 kg of explosives, 30 hand grenades along with that gun and a rifle of domestic production, and several dozen pieces of ammunition found in their homes. There were also dozens of silencers found and 12 laser targets, indicating that the weapon was intended for organized crime or even terrorism, and for which the other is intended for silencers, laser targets, bombs, explosives, chemical or initial capsules, any lighters. To what, except possible terrorism. And now we're giving action, I'm asking a parliamentary question a long time ago to answer, the answer's gone, I don't know if I'm going to get it in this term, but it answers my representative's question where the weapon is, he's gone, but the story's gone. Furthermore, the Minister of Interior at the time of the disappearance of the said weapon was Ranko Ostojić, Ranko Ostojić, besides all the great failures he had in his career, except for Velko's most successful, you who come hungry, barefoot, poor, welcome, whoever is among them, does not matter if they come, pass or stay, but this weapon is missing in his term. Ranko Ostojić, what is Ranko Ostojić doing today? He's the president of our country's internal national security committee. And what does Ranko do? He never informed the Croatian public about the investigations and what his job was. Where does the gun story end? About the weapon, about the disappearance of the weapon, which was warned by even Agent Strick more pies, only Strick knows what answers he received from the DORH and from those who were obliged to respond to the disappearance of the same weapon. And finally what do you say? Weapons are gone, weapons are around us, weapons are used, weapons are intended for cross-border terrorist cooperation, weapons may return to anyone who knows what form, responsibilities aren't there, those responsible, who were obliged to correct it, they've got even greater roles in our society, even greater responsibility, but in what way? Only one, to investigate those who have defended this Croatian state, they will bring them in, search, process, or crush their heads like in Vukovar Pajcic when a Croatian Sabadoš police officer we inherited from the former landscape, who is appalled for what he did along with his former province against the Republic of Croatia as a terrorist when he is allowed to re-destruct the Croatian defender who created this country. Where are we going? Mr. Pernar, you've gone, welcome to the absurd, I support any cooperation with anyone against terrorism, but let's start cleaning the house out of my yard. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148930	Thank you very much, Mr. Culey. That concludes the debate, and we'll vote when the conditions are met, which will probably be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148931	Final proposal of the Act on the Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 684. The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 103 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Confirmation of the Additional Protocol with the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. And the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has proposed to the Croatian Assembly a conclusion which reads: "When laying down a ratification document, the Republic of Croatia is obliged to determine the area or areas in which the additional protocol will be applied." I am voting on the Committee's proposal. I find that we have reached a conclusion with 96 votes in favour, 3 abstentions and 2 against as proposed by the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148932	Respected MPs and respected MPs in accordance with Article. 247. I would like to propose to the Rules of Procedure that the following two points be implemented, for the next two points, to conduct a joint discussion, that is, those points are: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, first reading of P.Z.E. No. 664 and - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 665 These are the proposals of Laws 664 and 665. Any objections? No objections. Proposer of these laws, the draft law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article. 85. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and of the The Rules of Procedure of HS. When discussing these items of the agenda, as you have seen, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law as proposed by the law shall apply, of course. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Would the Secretary of State, Mr Zdravko Zrinasic, like to give an additional explanation on behalf of the motionor? Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148933	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman-in-Office of HS, respected MPs and MPs, as regards both laws, I will only briefly remind you that in 2013, this entire area has been completely amended in terms of existing legislation until then, in a way that the category and each other's funds clearly differed from one another, and in the legislative framework of business and open and alternative investment funds in the Republic of Croatia, all compliance with the EU acquis has been introduced. As far as the Open Investment Funds Act itself is concerned, today's law was passed in May 2016 due to further harmonisation and acquisition of the EU acquis. In the meantime, one Directive has been reintroduced and, in this case, Regulation 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December laying down a general framework for the securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisation where this Regulation is to be transposed into both legislative regulations and the latter suggests these amendments. I would just mention that the regulation itself, so called on securitisation, has been directly applicable in the Member States since 1.1 this year, and the aim is to launch a sustainable securitisation market to improve EU economy financing while also ensuring investor protection. Since that regulation has also amended the so-called This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. As regards the securitisation regulation, since we do not currently have a legal framework for such a type of business in the coming period, it is provided for the adoption of a specific law on the implementation of securitisations, which will, in addition to the implementation of the Regulation, designate the supervisory authorities, standardise the division of competences, control procedures, supervisory measures, co-operation with other bodies, as well as other national specificities. In order to implement certain provisions of the Regulation, the proposal for this law lays down new provisions giving power to management companies in order to be able to carry out operations called servicers’ operations or to actively manage daily portfolios included in securitisations if such transactions are delegated to them. They shall also be subject to additional obligations in relation to the management of securitisation exposures in terms of carrying out an assessment of the impact of exposure to securitisation on the interests of investors. Administrative sanctions are also listed by the supervisory authority in this case by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in the event of breach of the provisions laid down in the regulation. Furthermore, the bill contains amendments and additions that represent harmonisation with other regulations which reduces the shortcomings and inconsistencies observed through current practice, which will contribute to uniformity of conduct and legal certainty in further work. In this respect, compliance was carried out with the provisions of the Capital Market Act adopted in July of last year, so after the adoption of this law, which is a roof law, compliance was then carried out with the provisions of the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, then the Law on Alternative Investment Funds and at the end of the General Administrative Procedure Act. As regards the Capital Market Act, adjustments have been made in relation to the conditions for a member of the Management Board or the Supervisory Board, then to the assessment of the procedures, conditions and legal consequences of obtaining a qualifying share and to the distribution of funds. As regards the conditions for a member of the Management Board and of the Supervisory Board, the applicable law lays down the same conditions for members of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board, and it also requires experience in the management of the financial institution or experience in the management or supervision of the business of the financial institution, as well as an examination for an investment advisor for a member of the Management Board. The proposal for a law would allow recognition of different experiences for members of the Supervisory Board, so that members of the Supervisory Board could be, for example, teachers, experts, persons with experience in the administration or in the Supervisory Board of Great Entrepreneurs and the like. Furthermore, for the members of the company’s management, the condition of the examination submitted for the investment council would be abolished as those qualifications required so far from the practice of how supervisory services have established that the condition prescribed was not a good indicator and a guarantee of success for the management of the fund. The proposal for a Management Act also provides for the introduction of the conditions of common availability of expertise, competence, experience, which would mean that not all members should individually have all the required specifications or specialisation, while, for the conditions of expertise, experience and good reputation, the continued fulfilment of the conditions is prescribed. I would draw attention to the fact that in this way the conditions and criteria for selecting a member of the managing body of any, whether the administration or the supervisory board are in line with the conditions for members of the supervisory boards and members of the management of other financial institutions, with the application of the principle of proportionality. So for example, as we already have in credit institutions. As regards the assessment of the procedure, the conditions and legal consequences of obtaining a qualifying share, the draft law harmonises the provisions in relation to the assessment of the procedure and the conditions and legal consequences in such a way as to obtain a qualifying share or increase the qualifying share, the obligation to submit an application for the approval of the HANFA shall be laid down. This balances the standard of treatment for financial entities in all sectors, and in relation to the assessment of the suitability of acquiring a qualifying share in the same sector. As regards the distribution of funds, the proposal for a law of terminology relating to distribution is fully in line with the Capital Market Act as a roof law, where the distribution is defined as selling or consulting in relation to the shares in the open investment funds carried out by the management company or other authorised persons, all with the aim of harmonising with the so-called so-called investment fund. MIFID Directive, MIFID II Directive which has an official EU code 2014/65. As regards the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, the bill contains amendments and provisions for the purpose of horizontal alignment with that law and for the authorisation to manage voluntary pension funds. Since the Voluntary Pension Funds Act provides for the possibility for the management company to manage and pension funds, it is necessary to prescribe that the management company can do so provided that the authorisation results and in accordance with the provisions of the Voluntary Pension Funds Act, which would fill the legal gap and the possibility of different interpretations as it was in the past period. Also, the bill also makes horizontal alignment with the Alternative Investment Funds Act, the management company is prescribed as a paper on the obligation to invest part of the capital in liquid assets. To date, this was only an obligation in the management of alternative investment funds, which is not proportionate to the size and importance of the risk-management assets that the management companies have been exposed to and the lack observed had to be corrected and harmonised. According to HANFA in 2018, the total net assets of open-end investment funds with a public offering amounted to HRK 19.1 billion, while the net assets of alternative investment funds were 3.6 billion. 5 and a few times means already she wasn't this prescribed obligation that we're now introducing by law. Finally, the proposal for a law also contains additions and harmonisations relating to the General Administrative Procedure Act and, in the sense of the conduct of the procedure by the supervisory authority, in this case, to the HANFA in the context of the issue of notices, then the regulation of the issue, the abolition and annulment of solutions and other activities. As far as the Alternative Investment Funds Act itself is concerned, as I said, for the same reasons as the previous law, it needs to be amended, and by this bill, it is a further step in harmonising the acquis with the EU acquis. The Securitisation Regulation shall apply directly, as I said, and in particular we shall highlight Article here. 41 The Regulation, which has been transposed into the Alternative Investment Funds Act, namely Regulation 2011/61, and since this Regulation has been applied since 1.1, it is necessary to comply with both concepts. Also, as in the previous law, the serviceman's job would be regulated in the same way as I mentioned in the previous law. Furthermore, provisions have been developed in relation to the basic and ancillary activities of alternative investment fund management companies, i.e. the provisions are more clearly formulated in such a way that the management of alternative investment funds is the core activity of the management company. It is also possible, as an additional activity, to deal with service providers' activities as prescribed by the Securitisation Regulation. Furthermore, additional management obligations related to the management of securitisation exposures have been laid down and infringement provisions have been developed on the basis of the Regulation itself, and in this connection. Also, the bill contains amendments and additions that represent... with other regulations, thus removing the shortcomings and inconsistencies observed through current practice, which will contribute to equality of conduct and legal certainty. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In this regard, given that the Capital Market Act is like a roof law, passed after this law, as well as the previous law harmonising the provisions as I mentioned earlier, so I will only repeat briefly, means conditions for members of the board of directors, i.e. supervisory board, then evaluation, procedure, conditions and legal consequences of acquiring a qualifying share and the distribution of funds. The draft law further allows alternative investment funds, which does not offer a public offer to make use of a branch of a credit institution from a Member State as a depositary. This indirectly opened the possibility for the company to manage alternative investment funds to invest the assets of the fund in those forms... for which credit institutions in the Republic of Croatia do not offer custody services. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For example, we can call crypts, which is important, and in order to increase the competitiveness of domestic management societies. In doing so, investor protection is not affected by the fact that it is not possible for alternative investment funds with a public offering. The provisions relating to the application of the guidelines adopted today by European authorities, which are binding on both HANFA and all addresses of the law, are amended in order to ensure uniformity of practice and timely transposition into national legislation of measures adopted by the body in charge of securities and the capital market, i.e. Emma. Provisions concerning the authorisation of management companies for the management of open-end investment funds with a public offering have also been developed, provided that the HANFA has been approved in accordance with the law which... the establishment and management of funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That amendment should contribute to legal certainty, as mentioned in previous measures. Finally, this bill extended the completion of compliance with the General Administrative Procedure Act in terms of these actions, which I mentioned earlier, from reminders to how to issue and act in connection with the issue of a solution. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148934	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the explanation of the proposal. We have replicas. Dear colleague Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148935	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of HS, the Honorable Secretary of State, Mr Zrinasic. I think I heard well, so last year we had amendments and additions to the capital market law, so this bill is now in force by law, members of administration and supervision, they had to have 3 and 5 years of experience, and they had to have passed the exam for an investment advisor. With this bill, they don't have to have it anymore, so I'm curious, is it because of the practice that it has shown or is it because of the EU's conditionality with the directive? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148936	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State Zrinasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148937	Well, thank you very much for asking the most respected Mr. Representative. So, otherwise, as I mentioned in the speech, this is a alignment compared to the entire industry, the financial industry, according to industry regulations. We have such a provision, as far as credit institutions are concerned, for many years already, because management has proved, in this case by the fund, so in the case of credit institutions, not enough for all members to have the same knowledge but specific knowledge. Since, for example, the President of the Administration should know about portfolio management, a member of a single administration should know about risk management and, in that sense, require comprehensive knowledge and assess the completeness of the administration in terms of management of that company or figuratively speaking, the ship, to know how to sail that ship through common synergy, not that all three specialize in one type of activity, and professional services, or competent services, when they did so, have seen that such tests were carried out, that they were not guaranteeing that they would successfully take place, but that they had to have a quality management in terms of synergistic action.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148938	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Next replica, dear colleague Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here, just like the question I wanted to ask about this passing of an expert exam, so I'm pulling the line because it's already given an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148940	Thank you. Do you have any needs to complete? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148941	Perhaps just this in view of the end of time, I just wanted to add that in any case the conditions regarding expertise, experience and good reputation remained still of course in the obligation so that this section is a common denominator of this whole story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148942	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148943	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, this law is practically harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU directives, but what I am particularly interested in and concerned about before this debate we had the law, the executive law, the control of these financial institutions. We know that by amending the Law on HANFA in 2012 that HANFA was quite low compared to the level at which it was before. And I'm curious whether the parallel with this will go to the amendment of the HANFA Act where the HANFA would rise to one higher level because you yourself said that these funds in Croatia have almost 5 billion kuna assets. And not to say what I'm particularly interested in, and these are our mandatory pension funds. So this control mechanism because it's too late to act post-festum. So when some bad things happen, when some weird placements happen. And we know that the financial industry is a little bit, a little bit when it comes down to certain frameworks, creating some new financial product and selling it. And I'm interested in that control instrument.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148944	I'd like to thank my colleague Shuker. State Secretary Zrinasic's reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148945	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Representative, as you know for yourself the entire financial industry can be divided into two branches, one of which is the part of the credit institutions covered by the People's Bank and with all of its powers in charge. And on the other hand, the HANFA as an institution that deals with its other industrial branch of business but is now no longer just at the level of the Republic of Croatia but has been devoured at the EU level and including, of course, other countries interested in co-operation or in opening offices, branches or even societies here. It is reasonable then to follow this and with certain powers which, as a rule, as regards the Capital Market Act as a roof law, seem to me in a very comprehensive way to be permeated in terms of the powers of the HANF itself and these regulations that regulate a particular industry in this case are necessary whether they are alternative or other types of funds. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148946	I thank the Secretary of State. Next replica, respected counterpart Ivan Lovrinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148947	Dear Mr. Secretary of State, these funds are more known in Croatia as the economic co-operation funds in which former Finance Minister Borislav Škegro was chief technologist for these funds at the time of Jadranka Kosor. Every kuna invested by the private government was given one kuna. There was about a billion kuna. They beat up, for example. in Agrokor about 50 million kuna, lost, for the failed Center bank about 100 million kuna, etc., etc. How long has she advanced her investigation into these funds before ours here isn't the goal of adopting laws and losing taxpayers' money afterwards? First, investigate and submit a report on these funds, especially what has been said just now about what pension funds invest in and they have lost the money of everyone who pays for pensions. Therefore, we here in the Parliament want first to report where taxpayers' money is spent especially on pensions, and I do not want to adopt new laws without it.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148948	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic. State Secretary Zrinasic's reply, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148949	Here's a thank you to the well-respected Mr. Representative. As far as this issue is concerned, I would remind you, therefore, that it is funds that collect assets from investors who are interested in investing. Depends on how they are structured they can either be cash or mixed or stock or whatever. And mostly if they're an open-minded type, then people invest, and that fund has no right to even influence who's going to invest. There is both the possibility and those who will otherwise invest and that is all structured within these legal regulations. And I'm just saying that unlike some other industries, these types of funds have certain types of investments that are more risky in this regard and more profitable. As far as pension funds are concerned, I am the law that regulates their work has explicitly prescribed in which segments I can invest. If you remember less than a month ago, it was an observation that the state would need to secure and relax their type of investment so that they could invest in more risky industries because the current state bond yields are at a negative interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148950	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply. Would the committee's rapporteurs perhaps like to take a word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent List of Young Mr Tomislav Panenić. He's not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, a respected colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148951	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State with an associate, colleague and colleague. So here's a year ago, or three ago we passed these laws, now I believe we're improving them again. It's only short, so three years ago we passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering. I will remind us of the shortest and this has increased the protection of investors in open investment funds, the rules of liability of depositaries and the requirement to reward management company employees have been laid down. The law also simplified the licensing process and left the possibility of a simultaneous decision by the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency and the merger of proceedings. These new amendments, except that we will comply with the EU acquis and the Securitisation Regulation. I'll just say a few sentences at the end of the securitisation. The introduction also introduces new provisions giving authority to open-end investment fund management companies to be able to carry out service operations, i.e. to be able to actively manage daily the portfolio included in the securitisation if such transactions are delegated to it. The draft law also implements horizontal alignment with the Capital Market Act, facilitates conditions for members of supervisory boards and board members. I had a comment, but here's my colleagues already mentioned it, so I won't go any further. Therefore, it is further in line with the Law on Voluntary Pension Funds and the Law on Alternative Investment Funds. It's this second part of our debate. In a way that is prescribed for an open investment fund management company, the obligation to invest a certain amount of assets in liquid assets. Until now, it was only for the company to manage alternative investment funds. Speaking of the Alternative Investment Funds Act, last year we set out the conditions for the establishment, business and termination of the company's work for the management of alternative investment funds last spring. We have further introduced newer and this is classified companies in 3 classes, small, medium and large based on the size and property which the company manages and categories of investors to which the shares of individual alternative investment funds can be offered. Also, she sought a whole new level of insurance and protection for small investors. Today's law reconciling ourselves with the acquis of the EU, introduces new provisions that empower management companies to be able to carry out service providers' tasks or that they can actively manage a portfolio that is included in the securitisation on a daily basis. It also horizontally aligns here with the Capital Market Act in part of the conditions for members of the Board of Supervisors' Boards. Finally, the bill allows an alternative investment fund that does not offer public offering to use a branch of a credit institution from an EU Member State as depositary. As far as securitisation itself is concerned, I will read a few sentences and then comment on it for all of us, says the aim of securitisation and diversifying sources of funding, the distribution of risks across the financial sector, and the provision of additional sources of funding that depend to a lesser extent on the banking sector, which achieves the objectives of a more stable and sustainable financial system. Securitisation of credit is an important source of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises, thus creating benefits for entrepreneurs and cheaper and more accessible loans. Securitisation can also contribute to the release of the balance sheet for additional funding. Now, I'm the first, or if you want to be the last, which was against making it easier to finance especially medium and small entrepreneurs, but under the supervision, my colleague Schuker mentioned it, 10 years ago, so the securitisation of everything, all possible means of funding, spillover without control, was offered products that those who sold not only in America but also in Europe didn't understand what they were selling, ended up with after '29. The biggest financial crisis there, about 7, 8, I think Lehman Brothers failed in 2008 that lasted... What? ... [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] That's right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I think that this crisis and should have taught all of us something, given that in recent years one of the key tools as well as the EU has come out of that recession, and the financial crisis has actually been a huge amount of money that has been printed or released into the system. The interest is here, fellow Shuker will know, I think that never in history have interest been lower, some even a little bit so he'll get a negative interest, all this together opens up quite another question that I'm not going to open here now, but I'm just going to warn you that without supervision with the experiences we've had 10 years and over, I hope we don't make that mistake again, thank you. We will, of course, uphold one law and the other.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148952	I thank my esteemed colleague Milosevic. Next debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, dear colleague Boris Lalovac, please welcome colleague Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Secretary of State with an associate. In a joint discussion, the draft laws in amendments and additions to the Law on Open Investment Funds with a public offer and the Law on Alternative Investment Funds, as already stated here, are a step further in bringing Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis, i.e. enabling the implementation of Regulation (EU) 2017/2402 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2017 laying down a general framework for securitisation and establishing a specific framework for simple, transparent and standardised securitisations, as the procuring entity has also said, which applies to the single market since 1 January 2019. In order to implement certain provisions of the Securitisation Regulation, these laws lay down new provisions authorising management companies and these funds to be able to carry out service providers’ tasks or to actively manage daily portfolios included in securitisations if such transactions are delegated to them and if they are subject to additional obligations in relation to the management of securitisation exposures, certain administrative sanctions are also prescribed to the supervisory authority in the event of breach of the provisions of the prescribed Regulations. Also, as has already been said here, these draft laws contain amendments and additions that represent horizontal harmonisation with the Capital Market Act, voluntary pension funds, alternative investment funds and the General Administrative Procedure Act. Very short, so what's this about? So the EU, there was also talk, because of the simple promotion of the economy, introduces securitisation, here fellow Milosevic initially said about the dangers of securitisation and I think the promoter said that the special law would regulate the securitisation and regulate it in the Republic of Croatia. As you know, it was created in the United States in the '70s when it was actually trying to clean the balance sheet, and in this way certain products are being repacked, and now one part of the balance sheet is being sold and on this basis is actually a securities issue, and this is actually the 2008 crisis where a number of banks credited to the poor part of the citizens have been repacked into securities that later this rating agency assigned that these securities were AAA. All rating agencies are in these securities based on these loans that they gave to the poor part of the citizens have repacked and defined that they are very valuable securities and that when what started to happen, the system began to collapse. And now the question is, is something like that possible in the Republic of Croatia? It's possible. You've seen that in the last few years, banks have sold 7 to 8 billion kunas of bad claims from their balance sheets. They sold it to a variety of people. And companies now dealing with these so-called so-called companies. By pushing the debts. De facto that this securitisation was conducted, what could be done? Also, all those claims that were in the balance sheet against the citizens, and here we talked about the Executive Law and the problems in the Executive Law, they could clean up their balance sheet and based on those claims that they sold issue securities and you still have a great rating agency that says, these are good securities, you invest in these securities, and then some company, a corporation invests or banks, etc. another investor, invests in those securities. So we say how dangerous this is, especially because it's currently on the financial markets somewhere around $16,000 billion, watch out for $16,000, it's negative, which means that banks or pension funds and all those who invest in bonds are starting to bear negative contributions. With its policy, the European Central Bank has printed so much cheap money that I can see it recently and the pressure of the US president towards the Fed to reduce this central interest rate that has fallen to 1.75 and thus the pump simply warms up the economy, and we see that many economies are now slightly in recession, entering some area of recession, and we have money never cheaper. In order not to re-pack the various debts in the context of Croatian citizens in a variety of products and on the basis of them to issue securities, and this is the securitisation, and then you give it to these funds with a public offering to citizens to buy such values. That is why I hope that this Securitisation Act will be found very quickly and that the market does not really go too far because there may be significant losses, and the crisis that was in 2008 is exclusively the securitisation process and then for a time it was even banned on the market. And if it is the RH according to the latest HANFA data on 31.8.2018, the net assets of open investment funds amounted to around 21.6 billion kuna, of which the mandatory pension funds totalled about 18 billion kuna and 1.7 shares. You see the ratio of bonds and shares? And in mid- 2019, these alternative investment funds managed somewhere with assets of about 4 billion kuna and 1.3 billion kuna relating to the capital fund, and this 1 billion to 5 FGS. And now if you take this more information that mandatory pension funds run somewhere around $18 billion of assets that are mostly about 75 billion of kunas are invested in the bonds of the Republic of Croatia, and we see that the bond yields are never lower. And there's a crazy situation going on in the financial markets that today's offerings on Greek bonds are about 2%, imagine. A few years ago we said that Greece was bankrupt, we all remember that in 2015 and 2016 we said that Greece was bankrupt, we remember these... measures, the whole EU was shaking what would happen to Greece, it wants to get out of the EU, if the euro goes one way in another, the Greek bonds are below 2%. Croatia came, as the minister recently said they came in the negative phase, so they go negative for one year's vaults. The bonds of countries that were in serious problems such as Spain, such as Ireland, such as these of all countries as they were, are all negative. For Germany, we know that it's in negative terms, Spain, remember those four countries that were pix so-called. Portugal, Ireland, Spain and Greece have no more than 1.5% of their bonds. Now imagine that amount of money that has been invested, and I only told you that more than 75 billion kunas of pension funds have been invested in bonds. Here are these open investment funds that we now give the opportunity to invest in so-called. The securitisation process has 18 billion kunas and other prisoners who also have invested in bonding, which will happen with future pensions if this situation occurs on the bond market where the yields are from 1% to 2% and to the most risky countries. I think that very soon we will have to bring some legal solutions that will be with the funds, which will be at all about investing not only in mandatory pension funds where they will be able to place their money because if the low interest phase continues, or if I don't know whether in history you have any more negative contributions and that all countries have made more negative contributions, which means the one who gives you the money still pays you interest. Imagine what absurdity it's come to? Whoever gives us the money still pays you interest to hold that money. I mean, I don't know if it's in the history of the economy and that 16 grand billion in the current financial market is under it, which means that everyone will go into negative long-term it's going to wear negative contributions, not only on their return to investment but on what we've been saying here and on bonds, and that, as good as it is for the state, it's not good for the economy, it's not good for the investment cycle, it's not good for the whole market to get involved in that part of the money. And then if they start to design on the EU market the securitisation process, then that means in other words the sale of claims and their balances, the cleaning, then repack it, sell it on a valuable market that bears a negative contribution again, we can imagine what it could do to the financial markets in the future, I think, what happened in 2008, you saw that Croatia, not directly because of that, but in general, was in one of the longest recessions for more than 6-7 years, and now imagine when you no longer have the instruments of fiscal policy, and God no longer has my instruments of monetary policy, because they came to that level that you can no longer stimulate the economy, so that we, as far as these laws are concerned, are part of the single financial market, however, serious issues lie ahead of us in the next period, not only about the process of this securitisation and its regulation, but what are going to be with the pensions, which are going to be negative, which are going to be necessary. And today, and Greece, etc., which are no longer their bonds can bear a contribution of 1-2%, which will be with the entire financial industry, so, I say, once again, these laws are technically correct, but I think we will have to discuss very soon what with pension funds and how their investments that are now primarily in bonds, and we know that this period of payment will only follow for the next 10-15 years will make these payments go away and if everyone in that one wheel, if it spins in a negative spiral, then, I'm afraid the government won't have more space and opportunities to react, save all these future pensions. Here, so for now, I support this, but certainly, I know that the Ministry of Finance is very awake to monitor and make these laws very well, but certainly to all of us to see what we're going to do in the future, especially in this situation that no one really has an answer to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148954	Thank you, Mr. Lalovec. We move on to individual debates, dear colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. These issues are rarely discussed in this House, meaning from the sphere of financial markets, financial institutions. This is about alternative investment funds, as one increasingly important part of the financial, as industry says. Since industry disappears in the right sense, then finance and financial institutions have added to themselves that they are industry. What are they making? They produce, first of all, a promise of fast wealth, you know? A quick fortune. And the quickest way to do that is on the stock market. And on the stock market, they all stuck like bees to honey. On the stock market, as you know, nothing is produced there. That's where the promises are made. Pens or books are not made or filled, and you saw how crowded it is because everyone wants to get rich as soon as possible. Well, if it were possible for everyone to get rich, then we'd all be rich by now. However, on the capital market where these funds are included, one rule is called the zero-sum rule, and that means, no matter how much it loses the mass, so much money will get a small number of those best addressed. And these are the ones that have inside information, and this inside trading, means trade in classified information, it is strictly punishable in all countries. However, there is always a channel, and you can never see or set up a listening device that someone whispered in someone’s ear. Why am I saying this as an introduction, and for this very reason that when this industry comes into these unprepared countries in this area, and here local Fakini and career criminals, I repeat, career criminals, when they adapt to these conditions, then we get what Warren Buffalo would have said about securitisation, that this is a weapon of mass destruction, and that we saw that securitisation is weapons of mass destruction, not just Americans, but all of them, and in Western Europe around the world, and so it will be for Croatia. So, we have one law here, you see, you who are now in the government, bring all these directives that are prepared for the EU, and say these are directives that must be adopted and don't call us here to the Parliament, the opposition, because I won't vote for it because, what I want to warn the public about, above all, is that the world has never been threatened by the sphere of finance, financial markets, but what it is today. Only three popes said something about economics, work, capital, and this current Pope Franjo wrote a book called This Economy Kills. Why do I mention the pope as the world's leading moral authority? He wrote there and said that the world, of course informed exclusively by top experts, scientists, that the world swims on the ocean of debt, debt. And it really is. Here it is said, thousands of billions of dollars, euros, the world is lost in that, in financial markets. It is not my intention to hold a lecture here as an expert on these areas but to warn Croatia that one degree of liberalisation is needed. Very rigorous, very careful. We need to know what we're playing and what can happen. Let's remember the chains of St. Antuna at the time of the war. Well, after the capital market, as all our people are deceived in various ways, you're imagining only our own ways. Let's remember, here's how the factoring of society worked in the Agrokor case. Exchanges from Agrokor systems that did not have coverage have been issued. That's what those suppliers agreed to, which means they accepted from, and then cashed them along with a discount in factoring societies. There are no reports, you see, the other day it just said that the DORH invited some 10 people from these suppliers, and one of the suppliers was working so hard to accept this deal about Agrokor. So I'm just writing a short paper called Forten's, roll up the loan, and Gretel. And Marica, you know, is that right, she fought hard for it. And now they're crying and I can end up in jail. Why? Because they accepted the bonds without the delivery of the goods. And ate the donkey wolf. Where are you country, where is this country here? Well, that's obvious. There is no more conflicting law in the sphere of economic law than exchange law. There's a clear record in every country that issues a note without a maturity cover, you can't pay for it. He has deceived the believer, in this case many of them. That's what the CNB knew about, that's what HANFA knew about, and then it got kidnapped by a former vice governor who told the public everyone knew everything, you see. Well, therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues have us here who have just come to a political scene, which we are not sheep and who do not want Croatian citizens to be sheep for haircuts. Well, a little while ago I asked you a question, so let's get back to these funds. At the time of Prime Minister Jadranka Kosor's prime minister, an invention appeared from a former finance minister about alternative funds of investment or what they call economic co-operation funds, as wonderful as that sounds. The idea was for every kuna collected by the private sector, investors, they could be natural, legal persons, banks, these things, the state was giving another kuna, 50% gave. Whose money? Our money. At that time, about a billion kunas were spinning, and after that it was changing. And do you know that just to manage these assets without investment, to do nothing, to make money sit, stand, they took 20 million kunas a year. Then there was a fund that is now being investigated, and it is likely that this investigation will take me a while to make a joke until the day of judgment, or dust will cover them in some research room of a body that is responsible for it as well as others. Therefore, there it collapsed in Agrodor 40 million kuna and our money. Peace funds, on my question, I asked from here how many pension funds were lost by investing in the Agrokor concert. I've been told from HANFA it's 801 million kuna. And then the faster these peace funds managers are, you know what they said, the purest thing about 100 billion kuna assets that we manage. There has never been a report in this House on how many pension funds have been lost in various businesses by saving bad bank loans, for example. in Petrochemia, still. I've sent a question to HANFA these days, otherwise questions that I send late from 200 to 300 days and others even more. I repeat, the public question, how many pension funds they invested in Oiliq and they knew. How did they know? There, even the chairman of the Uljanic Supervisory Board was one lady from the pension fund of one. You see, gentlemen, I will stand here because there is no point in me talking, but I am telling you dear citizens and all of you who are now ruling, you are not capable of it, I call on citizens to clean Croatia of career criminals in the next election, of incompetent people, of dishonest people and to open the way to prosperity for Croatian people and society so that we can proudly and in Brussels and around the world say we are from Croatia, we are Croats, we are people who have managed in their country not to suffer from indifference, blockades, executions, but to be one of the super-rich nations in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148956	Thank you. We have a replica, a respected colleague, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148957	I thank the chairman. I agree with you, colleague Lovrinović, the financial sector should primarily be in the position to support entrepreneurs especially if it is agriculture or any other production. Although it may seem that way a few times, however, if you look at the past 10 years in Europe and even beyond, in fact, nations and countries that have recovered best and fastest from this major crisis are actually the ones who have had serious production. And not only the Germans, but here are the Germans, of course, the first to come to everyone's mind. And you mentioned Warren Buffett, I'll also quote him because you associated me in 2008 is, six months before Lehman Brothers Buffalo said when the tide passed and the tide came we'll see who was bathing naked. I hope we don't get to watch that script soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148958	I thank my fellow Milosevic. My colleague Lovrinović's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148959	Thank you for this question. To fill in the Buffett, he sees it, they see it after the tide and who's naked. We have the tide and the tide, but we never see who's naked, you know, in that, that's the problem. Nothing has been solved in the EU. Large monetary interventions since 2008, they are a historically invisible instrument for trying to solve these problems. But what has only been achieved? The only thing they could achieve was a return to stock prices, bonds that had been horrified and threatened to sink everything. And that instrument is exhausted. What about when that new tide comes? See, that's what I said we're getting into a new one, we're entering a new euro. We get what we're talking about on our... Well, we won't talk about it every day, but we never talk about it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's start a debate in the Parliament on the future of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148960	I thank my colleague Lovrinovic for his reply. I am concluding the debate, thanking the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, Mr Zrinasic and his associates for the reasons of the draft of these laws, we will vote on this point, or on these points when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148961	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 664, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the parliamentary working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Open Investment Funds Act with a public offering is hereby adopted. 2. Any comments and proposals will be sent to the applicant to consider them when establishing the text of the final draft law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 93 for, 10 abstentions and 3 against the conclusion that it was proposed by the parliamentary working bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148992	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on the Implementation of Regulation (EU) No. This appropriation is intended to cover: 1013/2006 and Directive 2009/16/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Environment and Nature and the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. I call upon the representative of the motionor, the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić, to give us an explanation of the final proposal for the law, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148993	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. So before you there is a final proposal for a law implementing those regulations which transposes that regulation into Croatian legislation. The Regulation shall not apply to warships, vessels, auxiliary vessels and other vessels owned or controlled by the State and currently used only for non-commercial state services, tonnegue vessels less than 500 and vessels which, during their lifetime, sail only in waters which, by the sovereignty and jurisdiction of the Member State under whose flag the ship is flying. This law means that we have specified in detail all the bodies necessary for the implementation of this Regulation and that means the administration within the meaning of this law is the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure, the recognised organisation of the Croatian Register of Ships, the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the administrative bodies of the units of the regional and regional self-government and the State Inspectorate. Differences from the first reading, minor objections from the Legislative Committee have been observed and certain articles have been reshaped, which have been written in accordance with the new Law on the System of State Administration and the State Inspectorate, so that everything is in line with the new law. That would be pretty short, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148994	I thank the Secretary of State. We have a replica, dear colleague Ivan Klarin, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr Secretary of State, you have not said anything that the European Commission has initiated proceedings against 9 EU member states, including Croatia for failing to comply with obligations under the ship recycling regulation, so Croatia, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Germany, Portugal, Romania, Slovenia and Sweden have not fully implemented European ship recycling legislation. Well, I'm interested if you can answer me, what about this procedure because we know that after that notice we go to the European Court of Justice if I'm not mistaken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148996	Thank you. Answer, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148997	Thank you, Your Honor. It is true that the procedure has been initiated but we have responded that we are in the process of harmonisation and clearly here, if everything is okay, if this law is passed tomorrow, this will remove any danger from the possible costs for the Republic of Croatia because this law has been fully notified to the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148998	Thank you. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague, Tomislav Panenic, is not present. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Lists, esteemed colleague Miro Bulj, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u148999	Thank you very much. Dear secretaries, colleagues and colleagues. Here, there is another regulation before us. Another harmonisation of our legislation and we were and so far we have one 1500... Every day we have more regulations and an EU directive that are either either not respected or brought forward simply because we can present ourselves. that we can say up in the European institutions and those officials that we respect European legislation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's what my colleague said before, that means a procedure against Croatia has been launched that does not respect all the directives on ship recycling. Of course, when we talk about the problem of recycling in this case of ships, that Croatia does not respect it and not only in this segment, otherwise Croatia does not respect the many segments and all the directives that are voted here because it boasts, say the President of the Parliament every year, at the end of the year says we adopt 800 laws and basically every morning we get the exact directive and in fact do we, do we have the infrastructure as financially, as human, as our potentials, it is less important, that we have passed the regulations and who will pay the fines? Well, I'm going to compare, it's the Croatian people, I'm going to compare it to something, it's not like that, but of course it's about the environment. We have a Black Hill in Zadar, we from Dalmatia down there know and you who are traveling, you will see from the left side of Zadar, in Biljani, the village next to the highway, you have a big Black Hill, which is basically an industrial cost, an industrial cost that I have warned here countless times. And of course, the European Commission has referred this to the European Court, the European Court has reached a verdict and now Croatia has to pay the penalty because it has been proven to be a waste, our people have said it is dangerous, it has been delayed, of course, it was very simple, it is a abandoned village, it is a village where mostly people of older age, people of the Serb national minority and of course, there is a village nearby, the birthplace of fellow Milorad Popovac, but he does not care, perhaps even a tour of the time when elections are needed, when votes are needed, I have been on several occasions with these people. It's just all polluted. But I was not respected, I once brought all the way here in a bag, so I donated to the President of the Parliament, Mr Jandrokovic, who stresses the importance that we next year will chair the EU Council, and that the punishment received by the people and wages is less important. Although he, as president of the parliament, could not answer the country's EU presidency last year. But it is important to present yourself to a smooth European politician who respects all directives and this case. And this case. And we're not going to talk about the problems we're experiencing from foreign ships, how many stains we have, which is from washing tankers into our own, declaring above all an exclusive economic belt and because we don't have resources, i.e. We don't, we can't control them, where in our sea we have stains bigger than the surface of Split. We're only lucky with the currents, the currents that we have don't bring to our shores, those stains, so our tourism would be destroyed. So in case of ship recycling, as in everything. So in all segments, all the legislation, the EU, all the directives and regulations we implement here in HS, none of them have any human potential, which means the financial and human potentials that are in place. Simply, we, not interested, you as executive authority do not show an interest in spending it and your colleague Klarin here asks, you say, it is very simple for you, it will cost the Croatian people. It won't cost the Croatian people, they told us the same thing about Biljana, about the Black Hill, it won't cost the people, and now the European court has ruled that the Black Hill, that Croatia has to pay the fine. So Croatia must pay the fine. So in this case. He won't. Well, we'll see, when we have to, then it'll pay out of the budget, of course. Whoever's responsible isn't anybody. We have made all the regulations, all the EU directives, important that this is read here, and basically, as far as this House is concerned, we are witnesses, here I mentioned earlier that numerous important decisions for the Croatian people are not being made through this Parliament, as was said, I mentioned the Marrakech compact which was prevented from coming to parliament to discuss it. So it won't be this system of responsibility, no one will answer. No one. Absolutely no one. Because that's how it's all in us, in all matters, from the judiciary to the next. From the Supreme Court to the Shex. That is why today we have this way of trusting the judiciary in the Republic of Croatia. The verticals know exactly how it works and verticals and horizontals. Of course the directive and what it says in the directives... that it is also regulations that it is acceptable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But you don't do it, and what's worse, when there's a penalty, when the European Court of Justice, the EU Commission has warned, of respect, when there's a punishment, like in the case of Biljan and Black Mountains, and in this matter, no one is responsible. We're just gonna pay for it from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149000	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected counterpart Branko Bačić. Here's my colleague Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149001	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club will accept and support the proposal for a Law implementing the EU Parliament and Council Regulation on ship recycling and amending the regulation as proposed by the Government. The international unification of regulations relating to the safety of human life and the protection of the environment began right in the maritime navigation sector. Among the most important should be the SoLAS Convention which deals with the safety of human lives at sea and from this area of protection of the sea and the marine environment, one of the most important international conventions, and as the only international maritime organisation has also brought the MARPOL Convention on the protection of the sea against pollution. So these two international conventions, SOLAS Conventions and MARPOL Conventions, define behaviour at sea and when it comes to navigation, when it comes to the protection of the marine environment and when it comes to the protection of human lives at sea. What we must say, which is why this regulation is important, that 90% of all world transport is taking place in the sea. It is therefore very clear and very important to define what ships and for the protection of human life and for the protection of the environment, these seas can sail. At the beginning of this year, world records included 50,000 ships over 100 gross tons of load capacity with a total of 2 billion tons of load capacity. Over the last year, and for this year we still have no data, 62 million tons of new ships carrying new ships have been built that talk about the intensity of shipbuilding in the world. The impact of maritime navigation on the safety of human life and the protection of the marine environment can also be estimated from the fact that in the last 10 years 1036 ships have been lost in maritime accidents, of which only in the last year there have been 46 ships. It is often emphasized among sailors that the ship’s life course is similar to human life. Namely, ships have a place of birth, a year of birth, or immersion, have a godmother, have a port of enrolment, an annual examination, but also a place and year when they end their voyages forever or forever, that is, as we define today on this and this regulation, we have a place recycled. Average age... It varies from these ships to about 20 years and 6 months. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This average age was recorded 2 years ago. The year is cut, which is very important to say between 20 million and 60 million tons of load capacity, i.e. between 900 and 1,000 ships on average. The number of recycled ships is directly related to the condition driven on the world market of ship space. Which means when the train fares are high, then the job in the dumps is much smaller and when the coaches fall, when stagnation occurs, the world market and the world economy then the rules increase the number of ships that end up in the dump, or which are recycled. The new regulations of the International and Maritime Organisations and the safety of navigation and protection of the marine environment also have a significant impact on recycled ships, as they require more sophisticated ships that have built-in additional equipment for the safety of navigation and for the protection of the marine environment. Therefore, older ships that are required by the International Convention do not fully comply with such provisions before and faster end in or in countries that do not have such sophisticated ships or end up in cutting places. According to the data they need, they explain the work in those shipyards where ships are recycled or cut is employed worldwide by about 225 thousand people, as a rule in South Asia. The average price, it's also important that one shipman can get for the ship sold, for recycling is about $400 per tonne of iron. The price depends on the type of ship and the place where recycling is performed. Until recently, ship recycling was carried out in a very insecure, primitive and environmentally unacceptable way. About 75% of ships are also recycled by the principle of bichins, i.e. the previous converging on beaches and afterwards by cutting and recycling the ship. It is clear that there is a possibility of polluting the marine environment with parts of equipment, fuel and oil. Therefore, for these reasons, since there has often been an environmental pollution in the recycling and cutting of the ship itself, it was necessary that an appropriate document be adopted at the level of the world maritime organisation, which would prescribe the way and the recycling process of the ship itself, in order not to endanger the marine environment. We who live in southern Croatia know that one of the most famous recycling sites in the world of Kai was near Split in the Gulf of Kastelan, so for the pollution of the Kaštelan Bay, part of the quotes was the cutting of ships, i.e. the recycling of ships themselves. I said earlier that an international maritime organisation to prevent such ship recycling that would contribute to environmental pollution in Hong Kong in 2009 had adopted an International Convention that prescribed safe and environmentally acceptable ship recycling in the world. However, since this international convention has not yet entered into force because it has not ratified a sufficient number of countries whose fleets are large, and other than the number of countries, it is prescribed how much this should be prescribed in the percentage of the world fleet, i.e. to ensure that only the convention can enter into force. The European Commission has set out with this Regulation to speed up and allow its countries to prescribe conditions for their shipowners and how ships are recycled to avoid pollution of the marine environment. For this reason, it is good for the Croatian Parliament to accept this regulation, which in a certain way prescribes what is prescribed by the International Convention of the International Maritime Organisation and has not yet entered into force. Therefore, this document speeds up the action of the shipowners so that they can recycle their ships which are leading to the flag of the EU Member States only in the way this Regulation has prescribed. We will clearly support this regulation at the HDZ Club, that is, this law which implements this regulation in Croatian legislation. But we also suggest to the government that as soon as possible the government proceed to confirm, that is, the ratification of the Hong Kong Convention as it is called the Convention on Ecologically Acceptable Cycling of Ships in the World. So to conclude, this is good because, through the turn of straight metal and steel, it leads to environmental pollution. In order for this to happen in Croatia, not only in Croatia but also in the EU space, it is good that the Croatian Parliament adopts this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149002	I thank my colleague Bačić. We're moving on to individual debates. Comrade Djujic is not present. Dear fellow Bull, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149003	Thank you very much. I would once again point out the regulations that we bring here in the Parliament that they do not respect. So they're inconclusive in Croatia. The only thing we can boast about is that we implemented those regulations through our own legislation. And this testifies several months ago where the European Commission launched proceedings against Croatia and eight other countries not to respect the meaning of ship recycling, that EU legislation is not respected. I'd like to highlight it to my colleagues and colleagues. And I don't know why to avoid it, why? Because sending the official notice that Croatia received is the first step in launching means the procedure for which Croatia will go to the European Court and where it will have to pay fines from the budget, I repeat from the budget. I'd like the secretary of the ministry to explain that, who will be responsible? He claims it won't happen. I said on behalf of the club an example of where it happened, I repeat again in Biljani because of the cost, the black hill of so-called. I brought the expense here, I warned the minister, he was all bloated up like a turkey, he laughed that impossible, but the European Commission sued the court, the European court reached a verdict and Croatia now has to pay the damages. They said that the cost was construction material, and in fact it was industrial waste. And now it's going to be paid out of the budget. So in this case, the first step was taken by the European Commission, it sent a warning, the second step is a European court lawsuit. Here is the question, it is not enough your word, I know that this government does not hold to Parliament is that it has held other legislation or other important decisions, agreed or disagreed, I always mention that the Marrakesh Agreement Croatia has accepted, the Marrakech compact until our neighbouring countries have not, and it has not been debated at all in the Croatian Parliament. That's when the president stopped it, now he's not the chairman of that board, Mr. Miro Kovac, then he didn't give a second conclusion at all. So who will be responsible if this warning becomes a European Commission lawsuit and Croatia loses? I was told by the Minister of Environment at the time, believe me, he claimed for the Black Hill that it was settled, that it would not be in any case. However, when we talk about ships, our shipmen, foreign shipmen already talking about recycling, we must mention that all the cruise ships that come are also ecologically and disastrously related to our sea. It's visible, and that's what you've made sure of, it was me thinking the videos shown where the fecal waters are poured right into the sea. This should not be done in the waters of the United States or any other country, but in Croatia they behave so, by the way, that we have legislation obviously good. We can boast in Parliament how we quickly get through anything the European Commission has sent us through directives or through regulations, but absolute implementation is disastrous. And it will happen to us that in this we will only have the case of this warning that will pass, obviously, if we see that you accept it coldly, you are convinced that it will not be a warning, that there will be no lawsuit and then the verdict that Croatia will have to pay, i.e. Croatian people give it cold, but no one has any responsibility in this case. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, let us not let the executive authorities deceive us just here, because the warning sent by the European Commission that we do not respect ship recycling legislation is the first step towards the lawsuit. Step two is the verdict, we'll have to pay for it. And the executive authority must answer to the Parliament only as it is in us vice versa. Everything in us is arranged to be run from the other side of Mark's square, instead of everything to be decided in the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149004	Thank you. Here, colleague Bulj, you have the closing word on behalf of the Representatives' Club of the Independent Lists Bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149005	Here's another call on behalf of the club. Why? Because I think we are talking about very important topics and I am saddened by what these points are going through in this way, where the European Commission is also sending warnings to the Republic of Croatia, I repeat that it will follow the suit. That may be funny, I can see that fellow Boric and the others are laughing at this, but who's going to answer... the pay. I know this is difficult for you to say that Croatia does not fulfil the obligations of the EU legislation and these warnings that the European Commission is sending are serious warnings and these are huge costs to be paid from the budget. And those who should be warned in the executive power, you, as most of them, have given them confidence and we as a Parliament at this point do not matter, you should warn that this does not happen, that we do not pay the penalty for a verdict that is possible. Very likely because we have examples, this will be about tens of millions of fines. It's similar to the Black Hill, so I'm talking about the example we warned at the Parliament and the ministers and all, but the executive government didn't take those steps that she told us in the Parliament, and no one has any responsibility. No one is responsible for us paying the sentence to the European Commission in the European Court of Justice i.e. For failure to fulfil obligations. So in this case. If, three months ago, it is directed to official Croatia and eight other countries not to respect the legislation and regulation of the European Commission, the EU, it is a serious situation. So we're being sued and, of course, so are other cases. I know this is hard for you to listen to, but believe me, we should return the dignity to the Croatian Assembly and that the executive power should be responsible for all the failures that Parliament MPs make to me and what we implement in legislation that is probably good, the executive authority would be obliged to implement it. And no, we got a warning from the European Commission two months ago and now nothing. Says the secretary won't be anything. What's the guarantee? Is the same answer given to us by the Minister of Environment absolutely regarding the Black Hill? But now Croatia has to pay the penalty for that is the problem and that is what the triba is talking about. It's not enough just to come here before us MPs and say here we are implementing legislation and that's it. So I would ask you to answer me, who guarantees and who is responsible that Croatia will not press charges against the EU court at this point and that we will not lose in the end? Who guarantees that we will comply with this legislation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149006	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected colleague, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149007	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President. Article 238 shall not speak of a subject which is not subject to discussion during the hearing. Mr. Bully spoke here three times today about the subject without mentioning the ship once. So no mention of the word ship once, this regulation refers to ship recycling. And all the time he's talking about is the whole wrong subject and the wrong waste.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149008	I thank my colleague, Boric. I hear very well what my colleague Bulj is saying and I'm assessing whether there's a need for warning or not, so you don't have to do my job. I don't think the Rules of Procedure has been injured, and in the future, don't abuse the Institute of Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. Here you go, buddy Bull.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149009	Respecting your finding in 238 that I did not hurt myself, Article 238 injured fellow Boric in 238 because he was obviously sitting on his ears. I am always talking about the European Commission's warning that Croatia does not comply with the legislation on ship recycling regulations. I would ask you to read this article well on our Rules of Procedure and no longer sit on your ears. Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149010	My colleague Bulj, so please do not insult and disdain MPs and, on the basis of Article 239, I give you a warning. I'm closing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149011	Final proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) No 1257/2013. European Parliament and Council of 20 November 2013 on ship recycling and amending Regulation (EC) No 1013/2006 and Directive 2009/16/EC, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 647, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on that final draft of the law. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the 105 votes for and 2 abstentions have been passed by the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149012	We move to the next item of the agenda: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 636 The applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to Article 85. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. When discussing this item of the agenda, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. I ask the representative of the representative of the respected State Secretary of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, Mr Ivo Milatić, to give us an explanation of the final proposal for the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149013	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. The Implementing Act on the market in oil and petroleum products of 2014 and the 2017 amendments are regulated among other things by the issue of security of supply of the oil and oil products market through mandatory stocks of oil and petroleum products in accordance with Directive 2009/19 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2009 on the obligation of Member States to maintain minimum stocks of crude oil or petroleum products. The EU has adopted a new Commission Implementing Directive 2018/1581 of 19 October 2018 amending the Council Directive 2009 as regards the method of calculating the mandatory holding of stocks. We didn't get a warning for that transposition, and otherwise when the state gets a warning, that means someone's warning you to do something. And when you do something, you do something. You act on the warning, then it means you don't have any sanctions after that. Here are the two and a few years I've been doing this job whenever we've done it on notice, neatly done the law like it was before, we've never been sanctioned later because the European Commission has told us in orderly you've done the right thing. So that's how we didn't get a warning here right now, but we're acting in accordance with the directive and we're clearly still sorting out some of the things that we think we need to do according to our opportunities. In line with the above-mentioned amendments to EU legislation, this law addresses the problem of harmonising the definition of oil and petroleum products, as well as the appropriateness of time limits for the formation and storage of compulsory stocks. So we had before the formation of the stock was supposed to be, or the decision to form it was supposed to be made on 30 March in order to apply it from 1.4. It has always been a problem with EUROSTAT, with statistics and clearly that the European Commission has seen that this problem exists and has adopted a directive that objectively and now suits us as a state that this is done at the end of the 6th month and that a current decision on that quantity will take effect for that year. This law also reduces restrictions on the ability to store compulsory supplies outside the Member State's territory and should simplify and speed up the process of meeting the prescribed conditions and facilitate the implementation of the reserve keeping. In addition, the extension of the quality control area and the quantity of oil and oil derivatives as defined by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce covers the entire market of oil and petroleum products, this law requires that the quality control and the quantity of oil and oil derivatives can be carried out exclusively by legal persons accredited by the Croatian accreditation agency according to the request of the HRH EN ISO/IEC 17020 standard and the types which are independent inspection bodies and have an equal standing on the international market for goods and services. Finally, this law harmonises the inspection control provision with the State Inspectorate Act and regulates the infringement provisions. There were no objections between the two readings by the state administration. Something that we still have to mention here, since during the debate in the first reading in this House was the subject of a few parliamentary representatives and the MPs were saying that we hold a steady amount of oil products abroad and have been very troubled in the debate, I am obliged here for the Croatian public and on behalf of the Government and the Ministry to say that of the total of 666 thousand and 118 tonnes of oil and oil derivatives owned by the Republic of Croatia 51 thousand and 552 tonnes of the same derivatives is abroad, which means 7.74% of the total amount of oil derivatives. We would be happy if that part were not abroad, but unfortunately we are still not able to find adequate accommodation and storage facilities in accordance with the strategic schedule that is scheduled for mandatory supplies to be deployed around the country because it is clear that it is not all the same that the supplies are held in one place, they must be deployed for the possible necessary intervention on the market. So that was important to me to mention that it's only 7.74%. Our idea is that over the next 3 to 4 years, and that quantity is safely brought to the ground because every year we increase the number of tonnes stored in the country and how to release capacity is filled with new fuel that we have bought and we increase the total number of tonnes. And that's why it's still out there. And it's no secret that it stands in the Republic of Germany and in case you don't give God the need very quickly we could bring it into the country because it could be done so. swap a you know well that on the Mediterranean market there are certainly enough goods to do so very quickly. The importance of this law and the general theme of mandatory oil and oil products tells us that here is your information in this esteemed House that in the past year the EU has been, or the EU countries have been affected by several cases where Member States have fired mandatory oil and oil supplies. The first part, the first Excess was so-called. Russian oil that was, which had too much chlorine and was simply not to be transported to refineries. So Poland, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and one part of Austria were affected by it, and they had to fire the oil that was right and supply it via, say, our direction from Omishi. The second excess you heard in the media was a fire in Austria in a refinery where the Austrian state also had to fire until it was organized and proposed. The third serious problem that the European countries had in the last winter was that it was quite a low water supply of Rayna and a lot of the countries were hit simply couldn't physically get the goods to the refineries and those Member States fired the same. And one last blast that happened this summer, which is very important for Croatia as well, where we will do a lot of things in the future in terms of preparation plans so that God doesn't give it to us, and it's a strike for the tanker, which transports the tanker fuel to Portugal. So in one tourist country, there was a tourist season of strike, and the state also had to fire and organise how to organise the supply of the population. All in all, so much from the ministry and the government about this law and I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149014	I thank the Secretary of State, Mr. Milatić. We have a few replicas. Dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149015	Thank you very much. I am pleased to hear what you have done in this speech on behalf of the promoter, in essence in this performance, to explain what is going on with the warnings that the European Commission is sending if certain regulations or directives of the European Commission are not complied with. However, in my speech, I explained to you what happened in the Black Mountain case. The same thing you just said to me then, the minister told me about this speaker, Environment Minister Mr. Coric. And now the European Court has reached a verdict that Croatia will have to pay the fine. That's the problem. I have reason to believe you or not to believe you. But you're responsible, your ministry is responsible, it's in your jurisdiction to carry it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149016	Thank you. State Secretary's response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149017	Your Honor, I think I've made myself clear, and as far as the ministry is concerned, especially this ministry and this minister, we didn't put the hill there, but we deal with that hill as it does, some of our predecessors did. And clearly, in accordance with the law of the prescribed possibilities, we will fight that the state of Croatia will not pay what you claim to pay. We'll see who's going to pay and what's going to pay and how we're going to handle it. And certainly the ministry stands at the point that it is not the Croatian state's duty to pay and that that is what we think it is, not what the Commission claims. The Commission’s claim and judgment does not mean that this is the last word for them, that this will be the case. We'll see about that.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149018	I thank the Secretary of State. The next replica, respected counterpart Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149019	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, I have one question, is this finally the last law we're passing in this House of Commons because of Andrija Mikulic? Have we now concluded with this law this unification of the State Inspectorate since for 6 months the State Inspectorate has been acting as a single body and we are still today passing laws that regulate the work of the State Inspectorate. And now I'm wondering if after six months, we're finally ending this story, or if we can expect more of those laws in the next period. You once mentioned that this is in line with the State Inspectorate and that this is the European law that we are making for some, among other things, for some of our own matters, and that some of our own things are Andrija Mikulić. Is that what we're done with today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149020	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149021	Dear Representative Djujic, I see that the subject of the inspectorate is always, always present and I appreciate it very much, and it is good that you take care that we do not accidentally disagree. The adoption of this law is not, as we would say, exclusively caused by this subject, since the State Inspectorate Act is our part covered from the first day the law came into force. So we weren't in any legal vacuum as an inspection dealing with oil and oil derivatives, but since we've now made this law in a way that we've aligned with the directive and added this quality control that's not a directive, but we've added for ourselves and our legal persons to have a job in the state, clearly that we've aligned with the inspectorate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149022	Thank you. The next replica of the esteemed colleague Ivan Lovrinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149023	Mr. Secretary of State, very briefly, you said we hold 53,000 tons of oil in Germany. Well, look, why do you keep it? You say we swap, no matter what, tomorrow, no one's gonna give you a drop of oil. But here's a smart proposal ahead of the Party to change Croatia, so you boast in the government there, it doesn't matter we're not sensitive to it. You'll close Sisak anyway, you've made a political decision, there's a large area of land already polluted and nowhere in the Republic of Croatia nobody's going to let you build any more oil warehouses. If you're going to store something, build a warehouse of strategic oil reserves of the Republic of Croatia, hire people who work there anyway, and not to get cheap access, through now INA MOL combinations, that place, and we know that the land recovery there costs between one and two billion. Here, here's a theme, so go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149024	Thank you. The Secretary of State's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149025	Thank you. If it were that simple, then it would have been done. There's a simple strategic, strategic schedule, distribution of mandatory supplies. Among other things, it is no secret that large quantities of compulsory supplies are already in Sisak, so Sisak is about to be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149026	Thank you. Do you think maybe the committee reporter would like to take his word for it? No, I don't. I am opening a debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Youth List, a respected colleague of Panenic. He's not present. On behalf of the SDP Club, dear colleague Sasa Djujic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, so here I will very briefly, therefore the Secretary of State has also said in the opening statement the main reasons why this law is finally being passed and as regards the regulation of the storage of oil and these fines and this part which is technical and harmonising with European gains, even this extension of someone mentioned by the secretary, we have no objections with it, but once again I want to point out what I said in my replica, so here is one, one hidden reason for amending and adopting this law that best paints the way this government works and this ruling majority, which is Andrija Mikulić. So, at the beginning of the year, we passed the Law on the State Inspectorate on Unity so that, for the purposes of HDZ's internal relations, one man could sit at the head of the State Inspectorate, and then 6 months after that law came into force and what the State Inspectorate is united, we, every 2-3 weeks, capping the laws that are aligned, harmonize with that adjective of parent law or laws that allow the system to function. So this shows that this government, it's another piece of evidence that this government is essentially pawping at all the institutions of this country and that we don't have independent institutions, but everything is subordinated to HDZ and their internal relations. So, because of Andrija Mikulić, they happen 6 months after that, after uniting the inspectorates to get him a chair, there are legal changes every 2-3 weeks, and that should be a clear word here. The other thing is, in the first reading you didn't say this was just one of the micro reasons why you changed this law, so in the first reading it was said, it was one of the main reasons behind these European norms,... The debate in the first reading, now you've prepared yourselves because normally our debate was in that direction, I'm glad you're prepared and that the argument today is a little different, but we all know that's not the case. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] On the other hand, in our first reading, we also drew attention to the fact that in this high home we should discuss, discuss not only oil and oil derivatives, but in general, the energy independence of the Republic of Croatia, and that is what we are constantly warning in the SDP, we do not have a clear and clean energy strategy, everything is done on the back of the knee application. I'll mention it again here, reminding you today when we talk about oil and oil derivatives, the 2016 Prime Minister's promise. on Christmas that we will return INA to Croatian hands, what happened after that? After that, not that we didn't return it, but, in fact, we left it to the legal changes and that steering part of the smaller part that we left behind was practically without fighting the Hungarians. The second thing, the LNG terminal being pushed in Omislj on the island of Krk, past the will of the local community, past the economic justification, past any economical, any legality of economic, no reason, but now it is even clear that the state will pay, pay losses there which are evident because no one has even reported to the competition. The second thing, the HEP Prime Minister announced the privatisation of HEP, and there is no today, we don't even know what we're going to do with it, and so the policy of this government when the issue of energy independence is practically non-existent and that's what we should start talking about in this high house and I'm using this opportunity here to draw attention to it on behalf of the SDP Club that we expect that in recent times a comprehensive debate on these topics and that we start to discuss what the future of Croatia is when it comes to energy independence. And you didn't answer me if this is finally the last law to be passed because of Andrija Mikulić, but you just said the other reasons why these changes are being made, I would like to see it in the final word or on behalf of the promoter to tell us whether we are finally done today with the legal changes related to Andrija Mikulić. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149028	I'd like to thank my colleague, Djujic. There's a few more so don't worry. The next debate on behalf of the GLAS Representatives Club, respected counterpart Anka Mrak Taritas, is not present. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, dear colleague Damir Felak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149029	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Secretary of State with an associate, esteemed colleague and colleagues, here today we are having a debate on the final proposal of the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, this is today the last item of the agenda in the first reading was the first item of the agenda, it was more or less the same number of representatives and advocates in this assembly, which I believe speaks of how interested they are in this topic. I see that she's having a little trouble with some things that don't stand in the law, I have to admit that I haven't read the name of Andrija Mikulić anywhere in this law, if someone else has read it, it can say it under what point and where it's mentioned. Thus, the adoption of this law will bring national legislation into line with the EU acquis and will facilitate the implementation of mandatory oil and oil products and better control of the quality and quantity of oil and oil derivatives that occur in the area of the Republic of Croatia. There are four basic papers in this law. The first is to extend the deadlines in which the agency is due to determine the stocks for the current year, as the State Secretary also said, and the explanation is that it is because of the delay in the data from the Statistical Office so as not to constantly violate the provisions by means of the deadlines, this is clearly seen in this EU directive and we are harmonising this law here with the EU Directive. The second amendment is to simplify the possibility of keeping supplies in other countries, so there will no longer be a need to sign interstate contracts as it has been so far but would, in accordance with Article 6 of the Law, determine this in a way that mandatory supplies of oil and oil derivatives of the Republic of Croatia can be kept in the territory of another country in accordance with national legislation of that State. Also mandatory stocks of other countries may be kept in the territory of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of prior approval by the Ministry. The third news is that whoever determines the quality and quantity of oil derivatives placed on the market and warehouse in the warehouses. It is clearly stated here that it can be controlled by a legal person accredited according to the requirements of certain standards which so far has not been established by the current law, it is now determined exactly who can determine the quality of liquid oil fuels and normally which prescribe the method of measurement and method, the calculation of the quantity of goods. And the fourth newspaper in this law is to comply with the provisions of this inspection law with the State Inspectorate Act. I don't know why the State Inspectorate needs to be tied to one man because this law is one of a series of laws that regulates this harmonisation, and it's also currently at the head of the State Inspector Mr. Mikulić, which doesn't mean that soon there won't be anyone else or any other composition of the Government, and I don't see why these changes would be tied exclusively to one man and I think it's very trendy, tending to constantly call one person that it's made an inspector because it's simply not true. The inspectorate is designed to make the entire system of inspections in the Republic work better and I believe that, and I believe that it is now seen that the complete inspection service works better in the Republic when it is located in one place and when it is with them, when all inspections or at least a large majority are managed from one place, and this is in this case the State Inspectorate. Finally, we had such a system before the SDP changed, and in practice it has proved to be bad today, means today the establishment of a State Inspectorate, when inspections come under one body it manages, is expected and changes are already seen to be better if inspectors do not go on the same day or in a few days different inspections in certain economic operators, in certain entrepreneurs, but only after that do they comply and then that such and similar things would not happen, and as the inspectors said they must be first of all preventive, preventive, and only after that, if they do not respect warnings only afterwards punish themselves and I believe that the inspector will work in this direction. I would no longer talk about the inspector, here would mention just one more thing that Mr. Secretary of State said and I hope that perhaps in his final address he would tell us one thing about, he was talking about the individual excesses that occurred in the past year and that they affected that certain countries of oil supply, oil derivatives that they have in their area intervened in their markets to keep the price level of oil and oil derivatives on their markets, so I would ask here how, in general, the ministry's assessments, how they would act if they could be assessed, how recent incidents in Saudi Arabia when there was a bombing of certain oil plants and, in general, how many countries that are major oil producers, Saudi Arabia, if I did not cheat on the data, some of the other oil producer, so that the price of oil could not be priced with oil, so much money in Croatia, so I would not be able to buy the most of the money here, so I would not be able to buy it at all. Finally, I recall that this law was passed in the first reading with a large majority of votes, that only three MPs voted against, so I expect that in the second reading, a clear club of HDZ will support this legislative proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149030	I thank my colleague, Felak. Next debate on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Most Independent Lists of Honored Fellow Miro Bulj, please welcome colleague Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149031	Thank you very much. The law on the oil and oil products market in the second reading, meaning you mentioned the storage, that 7% was stored outside the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that we also handed this energy to our company INA in foreign hands, very simply, we even lost not only management rights but also those in the management of the last INA amendment law, we lost and meant lost. There are two members left in the administration but they have no right to vote. According to who knows how much of this is stored and probably stored in Hungary, probably Hungary, I know you'll be a little nervous, I know this is just the harmonisation of the law because of Andrija Mikulić, you have no one to do it for, as well as Vice President Miljan Brkic. It's simply the merits of Andrija Mikulić because he has to be. They just split the cakes. This is how it works, it would be much better if Mr. Boric, when you laugh that you saved the INA, if it wasn't for Hernadi, Jozo Petrovic and those who should have taken the huge money, who didn't and now INA went into other people's hands without justifying anyone, Slavko Linić started privatisation and SDP and you're Mr. Boric as secretary in that government, thoroughly... INA. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we could absolutely be energy independent on the matter and the hydrocarbons when we talk about oil, you're INA. I still don't know if JANAF has connected the pipes so it can go directly to Hungary or that. On the river, Sisak you certainly wrote off, we see that they will slightly shut it down together, we have given management rights, it has never happened in history that someone who has less than 50%, much less 50% share of the company to take over management rights, it has happened in Croatia and it is not just in this case, numerous cases, here is fellow Djujic mentioned earlier, we need to discuss the overall energy independence of the Republic, the strategy in which we can use our potentials and I believe that Croatia can be independent of these issues and as far as you are going into the contradiction of all of this to 2 months ago. Minister of Environment, Environmental and Energy Protection comes to Dalmatinska Zagora, to Island, Otok municipality, Dalmatian between Sinj and Trilj, gathers all mayors and mayors and says Nature Park Dinara and we are all agreeable, water-rich. However, at the same time as all of this is hypocritical, a tender for drilling is launched. for research work, hydrocarbon research in the Dinarid area, this is from Gorski kotar, the entire area of karst, Gorski Kotar, Ravni kotar, Sibenik hinterland, Central Dalmatian hinterland, i.e. Dalmatian burns all the way to Dubrovnik-Neretva County. Now imagine how hypocritical that is. From the one we need at some point, it suggests that the people would cheat, it's called in the war smoke curtain, did you see when the tank comes to the deleted space then throw the smoke screen, simply the one that to us... a phagote or some other weapon can't hit a tank because it's fog. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here and here. Minister Coric comes to the island and declares and says he's going to declare the law 3 months ago of the Nature Park Dinara. We know what resources are down there, how many sources of tributary, river Krka, Cetina, Zrmanja, if we don't talk about how much our capacities are and it's a breach, there we would have to give it to nature park law, to protect it from harmful projects like in this case and research. I'm personally on the side of water and life rather than someone's profit. Who knows whose profits and who made the call, the only INA came forward, and now the contest is over and the call is expected. So we have to choose a strategy, we have to go out of sight, I'm in this topic, we're talking about energy, energy independence, here's the issue of oil storage, but I think in this context of the hypocrisy of nature parks and the investigative actions that I get and it's supposed to be, it's still going to be decided, the competition is being held, in this area where we're the richest drinking water, I'm mostly choosing drinking water and living in terms of oil and profit and who knows whose profits we're making. Of the people in this area, it certainly won't be a profit and we need to know that here, to you, the Vice-President of the Government, that in the 21st century strategic resources are not hydrocarbons, they are very important but they are not, the strategic resource is water. And we're drinking pool research, foreign companies are essentially jeopardizing that resource of the 21st century. Hydrocarbons are an important resource, and it'd be better if it had oil, hydrocarbons and gas. But whose profit will it ultimately be? Now, when we put on one side that we see, or water, then we see that this is absolutely a hypocritical conflict of something that says nature park and something that is said in the Dinarids in this case Nature Park Dinara, it is said simply that the minister and government have no strategy and politics but a strategy of fog, smoke curtains. And as for oil itself, storage, oil law, of course it's been passed, that it's being brought here, I don't even need to mention it, because of the inspectorate, the new inspector, and I can only show one example of myself. I have a problem. In Sinj, the citizens had a problem with how the inspectorate works. Now, they had a problem with the base station that was setting up against the illegal GUP, and I'm writing to the inspectorate. Whether the base station is set up according to Andrija Mikulić, in line with the Sinja GUP. He corresponds to the municipality of GUP, he responds to me that the Ministry of Health has said that radiation is consistent with the radiation that is in the norm and that this HACOM has said that everything is fine. And it doesn't match what it's supposed to be. Of course. Because there must be a base station, he must be obeyed. And I'm talking about the inspectorate, and others have been talking about the inspectorate. [[Intruder: Comrade Bulj, I would ask you nicely to return to the topic.]] As for the very subject of the inspectorate, I once again said that as far as oil, oil derivatives, gone, I remember here when I played the Risen Bane song, and then everyone was angry, but it's a patriotic song, everyone sang, get up, Croatia calls you. [[Intruder: Go back to topic.]] It was a song that, in fact, sang, and then when I played here, when the INA Law was passed. about losing everyone, even this one, it was a nail... And before that, everyone here was angry at me for singing the Risen Bans. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's one patriotic song, so I think we should protect our potentials and resources, not destroy the mammalian refinery, and leave INA to other people's hands, I repeat again. It's not just when I look at you, HDZ is guilty. Slavko Linić started, and we all know the SDP, and Ivo Sanader ended up in... It's been given by most of them now, and that's the key problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And I'm not saying this... We went to new elections for this. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] New elections. And when I mentioned it, remember who tried to attack me? Hero, remember? He's the Chief Inspector now. Each has its own prize in this cycle, and they condition Jozo Petrovic. Don't be, I mean, it's very important, oil derivatives, oil derivatives laws. Where's the oil? Where'd she go? What about the sucking refinery? Well, now I'm gonna let you... What the minister of property was saying when you lied to voters in Sisak County that we would not be able to privatize, i.e. to shut down the mammalian refinery. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's no way. But that's funny to you. Well, when it's funny, of course I don't trust any of your laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149032	I'd like to thank my colleague Bulj. We're moving on to individual debates. Dear colleague Sasa Djujic. The topic is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. ... Not the inspector. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will stick to the subject and so I will briefly use this individual debate because some HDZ colleagues have just said they do not know where we saw Andrija Mikulić's name here. I've seen, let's say, in the light of this law on the page. 7, under questions governed by this law, it states that the provisions on inspection supervision are in line with the State Inspectorate Act. It's written in the light of this law and that's the subject here today. And the State Inspectorate Act is a law passed and amending the criteria for the Chief State Inspector. So, let's remember, that law lays down criteria for anyone to be a state inspector. Without any experience, no education is regulated, or the law that we are with, with which today's law after six months of what it is worth, is regulated by the politicization of the State Inspectorate. And that was later confirmed by the chief state inspector himself who said that he was politically appointed and that what the problem is, and that's what we in the SDP want to point out, which we don't think is good. That it's not good that the state inspectorate is politicized. It has to be unpolitical. That's our attitude, we have a right to it. They told their colleagues that this was one of the laws passed today related to the State Inspectorate, after the State Inspectorate was united. Yeah, that's the problem. Therefore, these laws were to enter into force before the main State Inspectorate Act or at least at the same time. And not to let the 1.4th Act on the State Inspectorate enter into force, and then six more months after that step, we align other laws with that parent law. This only shows that these changes happened quickly, on a ho-hand overnight to satisfy one's party appetites and that's what we want to point out. Which we don't think is good. That it's not good. On the other hand, here, colleagues from HDZ announce that today Andrija Mikulić is a state inspector, that tomorrow may not already be. So, maybe they'll replace him again, but that's, that's the thing. The State Inspector should be a political independent person, professional and impartial, and should be, as it were. In what way has the State Inspectorate been remembered in the last six months? So, colleagues say this is more effective and much better now. The only thing I can remember about these six months is changing chairs, as far as I can remember. I don't remember anything else that I read in the media about some efficiency, that there's less tax theft, that there's less in black, that there's some big action. I only remember what, a bunch of chairs outside the state inspectorate building and buying new ones, it's the only thing that remembered me and Andrija Mikulić. Maybe that's why I'm saying that other inspectors are efficient, that this service is so not only in focus, Mr. Mikulić, then we might be talking about something else, but here's the man who became a synonym for the state inspectorate, so that's why we mention him and don't be angry about it, which is today the subject of Vice President, and as far as I can see, as you said, he'll probably be in the future because we can expect more, even such laws. And that's just what I want to point out, that we in the SDP think it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149034	I thank my esteemed colleague, Djujic. We have a replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149035	Thank you very much. You mentioned your colleague precisely, regardless of what I warned you about, of course, Mr. Mikulić and the cycle of the set of laws that we lost from HS on the 4th month as we passed, harmonized all the laws on the new inspectorate, i.e. in a single inspectorate, it is a fact and here is mentioned in the bill when it is mentioned immediately it is not easy and the fact that this is a much more serious topic, oil and oil derivatives and energy independence is generally a much more serious topic than Andrija Mikulić and the satisfaction of his appetites, i.e. The cycle of the food chain of these appetites, is this very important. Energy is the most important thing with water and food for independence, the security of the state, and it's all down to one inspectorate, it's 6-7 months, we've only been harmonising the laws with Andrija Mikulić for a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149036	Thank you. The answer of my colleague, Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149037	I couldn't agree more on this with you, pal Bull, because that's what we said in the SDP. So, we believe that in this high home we need to discuss all the topics from the energy and energy security of the state, we think that it is a national issue, a national security issue, and that we spent 1/5 of our time discussing these issues that are important, and not that we have spent them on changing the set of compliance laws with the position of Andrija Mikulić in the state inspectorate, it would be a lot. So it would have been a lot if we'd spent 1/5 of our time on these topics. But unfortunately, we have to wait for laws like this to talk about these problems because we don't have a chance, we don't have a chance to talk in other situations.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149038	I thank my colleague Djujic for his reply. Final word on behalf of the motionary, State Secretary Ivo Milatić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished parliamentary representatives and MPs, I thank you all for the debate on this law, but it is simply my duty on behalf of the government and on behalf of the ministry, and on behalf of the Ministry, please refer to these issues that are persistently repeated here. Art. 135. The State Inspectorate Act, NN 115/18, read inside is all written on how the inspection works in part of this law that is now on the subject. As far as your questions are concerned, we are done with Andrija Mikulić, it is an excellent question, Andrija Mikulić was never a subject, so I simply don't understand why you are burdened with the name and last name. If you ask me, the new inspectorate is a great thing. I, like you, participated in the government of Kukuriku coalition, and you were a parliamentary representative, and I was an aide to the Minister of Economy in which the Board of Inspectors was forced, an appointed man, not to mention him by name and last name, to the Assistant Minister, and then we had various escapades about the functioning of that inspection of ours. So, I absolutely disagree that the inspectorate should have been disbanded, be it, you're turning the subject, you should say here that you've made certain mistakes as the then government and that you shouldn't have disbanded the inspectorate, it's good that there's an inspectorate united, I can say in person, here and colleague Validzic, that since the inspectorate has been united, we've been doing much better because there's simply now a larger amount of people, experts and it's quite different approach, than when it's partially broken down across all ministries. In this story that you, the esteemed representative Bulj, are really mentioning, and you're practically dragging the the thesis that we, by the INA Act that was here in this esteemed home, have abolished two members of the administration. So I really ask you not to speak falsely for the sake of the Croatian public, we have not abolished the two members of the administration, the Croatian, the number of Croatian members of the administration with the right to vote, the number of others left. The law only added counsellors without voting rights, and you are just mixing those advisers with members of the administration and selling to the Croatian public a story about how we've abolished something, stuck the last nail to this, which I simply ask you to do to the Croatian public and for us who still have some memory, so there's something here that we remember, we're reading some laws, that you're not saying it because it's just not nice of you as a parliamentary representative we hear always the same story. Energy independence and a new energy strategy, you will soon get a new energy strategy in this valued home and you will have opportunities to discuss, the public debate was or is still ongoing It was, you had a chance to report to everyone and you as Parliamentarians in a public debate and add your observations there that we can process them, so that our proposal when it comes to this esteemed home will be consistent with what you think it should be. [[Intruder: She was]] And when you mention that in the exploitation of hydrocarbons, whose profits would that be? One thing I'm going to tell you for sure, big profit for the Republic of Croatia, who's going to be on the other side in terms of the private sector and that, I'm not going in, the question of a public competition who answers. You know well that we now had 5%, so the government, here Mr. Shucker will know when, voted 10%, we're talking about those rents of old oil fields and wells that we're still receiving today from 10%, but in these new concessions that are being given, and now what's going to be in this area is so-called. Production sharing agreement means a contract to divide production, which means that the Croatian state will then enjoy a minimum of 30, 35 maybe 40 and more, and now it has 10% and I would like to hear that story about it. You didn't say that all those areas where the research areas are being obtained by 400 kunas of the county and municipalities only for a busy exploitation area for research. Ask someone in Vukovar-Srijem County if they are now rebelling against the new Law on Hydrocarbons? Ask the mayor how much money has come on that basis? So, to say that my minister is hypocritical, it's at least telling the truth again because you haven't looked at the papers on this contest you're mentioning in the Dinarids. In the Dinarides, the INA only appeared on the Lika block, and by law no nature park could be placed in the field of investigation, and if the Minister in charge of Energy said that the Dinara Nature Park would be established then make sure that he is not already in any research area, and in particular that in the future there will be no competition. Because where would the minister now say it would be a park, and then put it in the field of investigation, and the law does not allow parks of nature and national parks to be put in the field of investigation at all. So that's why I've had so much and I thank you. I'm sorry if I might have been too direct to explain this, but I think doing the public is good to know some things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149040	I thank the Secretary of State. We have a replica of a respected colleague, Sasa Djujic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149041	Thank you very much. Mr. Milatić, you're telling me that I should have a debate here in a way that I admit the mistakes of the government I've been in and that we shouldn't have split up the State Inspectorate. On the contrary, you're part of that government, I was a representative like you said. So, I voted in favour of the proposals you've made as you are now, and I didn't hear you at the time that as an assistant minister of the economy you were rebelling within that government and saying that this government is insanely insane and that it's not as good as you're saying now. I wish you'd been louder then so if you'd said, people are normal, what you're doing, so that's not good, so I'm strictly against it. No, you kept your mouth shut because you were fine and you probably, well, you weren't covering that area, but if you were covering for the Council, you were defending how it was the best idea that ever existed. And I still think it's that the State Inspector can't be in the hands of one man and it's a good thing he was who he was. But you're telling a different story today, if you were telling this one, then I'd appreciate it. But how am I supposed to know that you're proposing a good thing today if you've suggested something that you're saying today is wrong? So give me that little concentrate.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149042	Take care of your colleague on time, please. State Secretary, answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149043	Thank you. Your Honor, I was an assistant minister, and I can bring three, four witnesses to the department's college as long as you need me to say it was a crazy idea. But the economy minister at the time was not in charge of disbanded the inspectorate, but then Deputy Prime Minister Linic simply decided, implemented and made, and did not ask any of us. Mrsic's already been... sure. So much for that. And as for the fact that you just said now you're just confirming the the thesis that you've been saying here all along, now you've admitted that you've only supported what the government has supported, even if it's wrong. And here, very often, you're telling the parliamentarians most of them that they're doing the same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149044	My colleague Milatić, please, first of all, you can't talk to the MPs and do away with them in any way. Secondly, as far as bringing these witnesses of yours, if Col. Djujic agrees, meet him for coffee and bring them in and explain it to him. And do not once again beg in your answers to the replica to deliver and demean the parliamentary representatives. Here's my colleague, Djujic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149045	Article 238 has been violated by a derogation from the usual rules of conduct in the Assembly. So Mr. Milatić wasn't telling the truth because I said that personally I think we did a good thing, unlike you who think one thing in one government, and the other you think in another government. And I supported my government, that I supported it, but those things that I thought were good, and this is what I thought was good, and that's what I said. And don't twist my thesis and pull out of context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149046	Thank you. I don't think the Rules of Procedure have been hurt. We're moving on. Next replica, dear colleague Miro Bulj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149047	I don't know where you get as much of your right as you do, although I have the freedom of speech, that you in the executive power of parliament, you who have blamed and participated in the SDP government in all governments, have done these damages that have done as the greatest damage to the Turkish Empire, have not done as much damage as you in the INA, the energy sector in all sectors, you. Such a hypocritical policy. Does Dinara belong in the Dinarida research field? It's going down. I don't know who separated him or didn't, but the fact is it belongs. So why don't you tell me about Andrija Mikulić, my parliamentary representatives? Is he an official now? Did 50 laws change because of him? You say it's not, I say it's his reward, I say it is. What's with the triba beatification? ... Kelmett, Martini Dalic has to declare them saints? They're officials at the moment. You would forbid us and tell us what we will say. You should have courage in other places, not to be held by a coin, held by a coin You're on the clock. [[Invader Brkić: A colleague of Bulj, you are out of time.]] You should have warned him.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149048	Thank you very much. I warned the secretary of state and don't do my job. Mr. Milatich, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149049	I just said my opinion, what I thought was inappropriate, and I also received a warning from the Vice President of the Parliament, so I think I made myself clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149050	Thank you. Here's my colleague Bulj, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149051	Well, the breach of the Rules of Procedure, all the time the doctor, Vice President, you've hurt the Rules of Procedure, the doctor, of course he wants to justify himself, but you're the undertakers, you're the pests of the INA, the energy, I'm telling you, Miro Bulj, feel free to sue me, I'll say outside of Parliament, So you destroyed the energy system, and you're telling me, you're cheating on the public around the INA. [[Intruder Brkić: A colleague, please.]] Well, you sold neither for Judas's paws, but he knows why, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149052	Comrade Bulj, please don't do what you don't want others to do to you and don't abuse the institution's injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Let's move on to the next line, dear colleague Damir Felak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149053	Mr. Secretary of State, you mentioned in your final address that this State Inspectorate, Mr. Djujic, fellow Djujic, also spoke about his vision of the State Inspectorate, I think it is only wrong, everyone has the right to their own opinion and vision, I have made it very clear that I believe that the State Inspectorate is a good thing but I don't think that it should be tied to one name, it does not mean that someone will be replaced but it is nobody's private lazy but I would like to talk about something else, briefly in this replica, I commend this rent to any future well-being of oil or gas, I think it will be of great benefit to the state, but I hope for units of local self-government in whose area it is, and I repeat one thing that I have been incurring earlier, and that the current rent of 10% of the local law alone in order of the local law that only the local law in the right of the right of the local law in which is only the right of the right and the right of the local law.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149054	I thank my colleague, Felak. I am concluding the debate, thanking the Secretary of State, Mr. Ivo Milatić, for the reasons and his associate. We'll vote on this point when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, with this we have exhausted all the points of the agenda scheduled for today, we continue tomorrow morning at 9:30 p.m. with the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on genetically modified organisms, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 666. Have a nice rest of the day. Session interrupted at 17.37 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2019-09-19-0.u149055	Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products, second reading, P.Z. No. 636, the applicant is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the debate is closed. I am voting on the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. Please, let's vote. I find that most of the votes were 77 for, 16 abstentions and 13 passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Market in Oil and Oil Products. After we've made this decision, we move on to making an oath of counsel. I remind you that MP Goran Maric has sworn an oath at the constitutional session of the parliament, and MP Tomislav Tolusic will swear today. In the case of a Member State of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article and shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 7 The Rules of Procedure stated that the president read the text of the oath, and then The appointed representative stands up and pronounces the word “I swear”. Now I'm going to read the text of the oath. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work with the Constitution and the law and respect for the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia. Representative Tomislav Tolusic.
