ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, Article 60, paragraph 1, and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 84th meeting. 11. 2020. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Jože Tanko, Samo Bevk until 16:00, Nada Brinovšek, Suzanne Lepi Šimenko, Anja Bah Žibert, Franc Kramar and Bojan Podkrodšek. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, it was announced by Mr Primož Siter by participating in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application for today. I invited a representative of the Council of State to the 7th item of the agenda, then mags. Duško Year, Director of the Energy Agency, on the 16th item of the agenda, representatives of the Government to all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. For this reason, the National Assembly will also not decide on the proposal of the Levica Group of Ambassadors of 14. 11. 2020 for the withdrawal of the 8th item from the agenda of the meeting. Gradually, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u2	This meeting of the National Assembly is held as an extraordinary meeting, although it is a de facto regular meeting. The difference in the procedure was introduced on the grounds that it is possible for those Members and Members who have been quarantined to participate, but at the same time this change in the meeting regime is also the basis for refusing the request of the Left to postpone the decision on a specific law which will allow the government of Janez Janša to spend 780 million euros on weapons. In this way, it begins in the middle of an epidemic with an argument that has led Janez Janš's government to lock people in their homes, to run deadlines for a referendum, for a referendum that is virtually impossible to carry out in such situations. This limits the democratic right of all citizens and citizens to participate in the management of common matters in the basic guidelines in which the Republic of Slovenia is to operate. Therefore, the President, referring to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in Levica, demands the withdrawal of the point from the meeting of the National Assembly in which 780m euros in arms will be decided and that this law, or the conclusion of the examination of this law, be moved to a somewhat later date when the epidemiological situation in the country will also facilitate the implementation of referendum procedures. Let me conclude by saying that three quarters of people oppose the use of EUR 780 million for weapons, because every cent that goes for international military industrial complexes will mean a cent less for hospitals, for older citizens' homes, for young people's apartments and so on. This is particularly important and even critical in the context of the covid-19 epidemic, which has led the country to a recession at an accelerated rate. Each euro will count, every euro for the welfare of citizens and citizens will be crucial and these euros will not be spent by the government of Janez Janša on armoured and other unnecessary weapons.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u3	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. As I mentioned in the recitals, in accordance with Article 93a, fourth paragraph of this Article, the agenda for a remote meeting of the National Assembly shall be set by reference. As a result of the withdrawal of a specific item from the agenda, we will not vote. However, let me remind you of this, despite the fact that we have agreed to a remote meeting, this item is placed on the agenda by request and cannot be withdrawn for this reason as well. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 46 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall raise the questions referred to in Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the ruling coalition's question will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member or Member shall have 3 minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have 5 minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but cannot ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be presented by the Member in two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of 3 minutes. The Member who asked the question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that such a proposal needs to be made explicitly, focusing only on its explanation, but not on the procedural proposal to be used for the substantive debate on the question raised. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question raised today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who has asked a question which has not been answered may declare that he insists on an oral answer. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. An e-club provides an overview of the questions sent by the Member States, which were not answered within the time limit. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Janez Janša. The first question will be presented by Marjan Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, President. The Prime Minister of the government, when you took over the government in the spring, you heard how we left empty warehouses, how you did, I think at SNAV you said that the last moment you jumped in the truck, you managed to control it, and then you ended up with an epidemic. I could ask you why you wrote a report that, from today's point of view, was a simple farce where you personally accuse the government and me of criminal responsibility and I don't know what else. I could ask you why you flew over the plane and declared the end of the epidemic. I could ask you why you had a meeting at the Hill where you introduced a heart team that saved the epidemic. I could also ask you why you bought 148 or 149 fans who don't serve anything and buy new hospitals. I could also ask you why, when the end of the epidemic was declared, you were dealing with everything else, just preparing for the second wave. And I'm not going to ask you this because I don't want to be the same as you who are accusing everyone of personally blaming me for the deaths that you've been accusing others of, I don't know what else, but I'm going to ask you something else. In the summer, when you had time for everything, regardless of what you said on SNAV, the fact that the government can not only deal with the epidemic, but must deal with everything else – we know how you deal with everything else – I will ask you now after the greatest shame of Slovenian foreign policy, when you congratulated prematurely, on your own Republican party, not Donald Trump, and you have quarreled with the world and the European Union. Of course, your minister defends this and again says that the greater shame was my failure to perform in the European Parliament – about how expected this is indeed something new! I'll ask you anyway, Mr. Janša: How can you explain to your supporters and the Slovenian people that you support Trump when he denies the virus? When he had a meeting in front of his followers, they sat in front of them, without masks, and his followers demonstrated themselves without masks. How can you explain that?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u5	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u6	Thank you so much for asking. As far as the other guy's concerned. The President of the Republic organised a memorial meeting a few days ago when the then political majority, or Demos's parliamentary club in Poljča, decided to hold a plebiscite on Slovenia's independence. If that decision were not then, they would probably not be sitting in this Chamber today as Members of the State. When the decision was taken, it was clear that the independence of Slovenia was practically not officially supported by anyone. No one outside the borders of our country. A well-known minister came to the meeting and said everyone said they'd never acknowledge us. This continued until independence itself. The Secretary of State or the well-known Minister of State of the United States came to Belgrade a few days before the attack on Slovenia and said, "We support a democratic and united Yugoslavia," which was absurd and "the conquest of Slovenia and Croatia will never be recognized". In Poles, however, we decided to think with our own heads, believe our own opinions, and therefore today we have a country of our own. Those who claimed that they would never recognize us a few days before the attack on Slovenia recognized us, some in six months and some in a bad year. We now maintain this ability to think with our own head. We will be happy to congratulate the one who will be elected to the next American president. Slovenia has good strategic partnerships with the United States of America, regardless of which administration is in power. In all the governments I led, it was, and it will be in the future. It is so with the elections that when the other party admits defeat or the results are officially declared. Everything before that is just politics. Some have decided to follow the media wave. I've decided the opposite. We will see who was right, but I assure you that relations between Slovenia and the United States will not be affected in the future. This may even improve relations, because suddenly you are the ones who have taken steps towards establishing a good working, operational relationship with the United States in the last half of the year, clearly opposed which you have tried to complicate the adoption of a law that is going in this direction, because Slovenia has to strengthen its own participation in the joint defence efforts to which the United States is committed, regardless of which party the President is from. And now that you are all pro-American, I hope that all of these measures will be supported, that you will also unitedly support our offer to the United States to install the U.S. Army's rotational unit in Slovenia in the future, in order to support Slovenia's compliance with its obligations in NATO more strictly than ever before, where the United States is the central factor. In a way, I've been extremely pleased with this pro-American wave lately. I can hardly imagine that one tweet can make such a positive change in the direction of friendship with the United States of America. I hope this lasts. As for these questions from the first part, look, I could ask a lot of questions, but I'm only going to be one. If you are so smart, if you know what should be done during the epidemic, why did you throw the rifle into the corn at a time when it was clear that the epidemic was coming to Slovenia and that we would have to pool forces and resources to save health and life.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Sarec, request for a reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u8	Mr. Janša, you did not disappoint me with your answer. He's exactly what I expected him to be. Since I am not your believer, although I often watch Novo24 and wonder, I do not buy such answers, nor do the rest of Slovenia, which are not your believers. I asked you: Do you find Donald Trump’s meaningful support, given that he has repeatedly denied the virus, to disregard protective measures, to gather his supporters in a place where they did not have a suitable distance where they did not have masks and, in general, the President of the United States did very little to deal successfully with the virus? How can you support such a policy if you accuse anyone who is not on your own standards of mocking the virus, opposing the measures and opposing everything? Moreover, on your good television and your media you consistently glue photos of us in Prešeren Square when we are free of masks. Of course, we were without masks at the time, as the end of the epidemic was declared. Do you remember? And the masks weren't mandatory either. Then why don't you write Donald Trump this: Dear President of the United States of America, I urge you to wear masks and start dealing with the epidemic. That's what I asked you. Don't you think it's a two-faced support for someone, while Joe Biden has been fighting the virus since the first day he was elected, and he's also set up a task force, and Donald Trump is playing golf? That's what I asked you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u10	Look, I don't want to be rude, I don't make any illusions that I can influence the behavior of the American president, given that I couldn't even influence your behavior at the time that you denied the virus, when you and Nina Pirnat said it was a little worse flu, that you just had to cough up your hands and there was no problem. And when we had to force you out of the opposition to declare an epidemic, and then you threatened your Minister of Health, and I'll say, by direct sources, you even physically attacked him when he took some measures to get the epidemic in time. But, look, I don't really see any point in this fight. Nor is it that we are making some final balance sheet where we are in the middle of a conflict that is very serious. I would have simply appealed to you in the opposition to follow your political predecessors 30 years ago, who, when this key political decision was taken in Poland, opposed this decision first and then were prepared to sit down at the common table, negotiate and finally passed the plebiscite law with a large majority. I think we need something like this now, too, because the situation is serious. There are positive prospects for the vaccine, which does not mean that it will be available in time for all to avoid a third wave. By the way, the steps taken by Slovenia since 26 October have also been taken by most other European countries. In the end, we will be doing a balance sheet of who was more successful and who was less successful. But the fact is that the virus here, that the situation is extremely serious, that we have warned some five or six months before the second wave, if we do not all impose apps that warn of risky contacts that certain things have been banned all this time, including assemblies, non-organised assembly without permission, is not a problem that you did not wear masks, the problem is that you were at a convention that was not allowed because of the threat of the virus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Would you like a word for a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u12	I have a procedural proposal. Because I am not apart from some flat-rate accusations and some so-called direct sources that have been broadcast again in some media that we know where they belong, I propose, I have a procedural proposal to hold a debate at one of the following meetings on my issue, which is not just as much a dispute as the President of the Government says, but it is a bountiful foreign policy. It's about China admitting Joe Bidn's victory, so we're in North Korea, Russia, and I don't know, not many of us. This was therefore an important question. Nina Pirnat here has nothing to do with anyone else. So I propose that we hold this debate at one of the future meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be asked by Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Have a nice hello to you all. As Social Democrat and constitutional patriot, I will say Slovenia first, first Slovenia. My question concerns 2020, it concerns the epidemic. I have the application loaded, and most of my colleagues and colleagues from the Social Democrats have it, so we won't argue about the square of the circle, Mr Janša. No one in the world could prepare for the covid-19 epidemic. These are the words of the academics, virologist Prof. Dr. Tatjana Ašič Županc, on the radio yesterday, Public Institute of RTV Slovenia, Sunday guest. Most of the policies underestimated the crown, and also the rich countries were ill prepared for it. If you remember the Swiss Confederation, when they found out they didn't have alcohol for disinfectants to mix because they privatized it. Here we must commend both our laboratories, both Maribor and Ljubljana, who literally die from work, to provide a reagent in a timely manner and to be able to perform even more tests than any major country. Now, as to the second wave, we need to ask ourselves what we learned in the meantime and how we prepared ourselves for it. In any case, Slovenia failed the exam. Even President Pahor, your political companion criticised you yesterday, Mr Janša, and said the government has acted too slowly. The numbers on the crown aren't politically biased truths, they're not predominant on Twitter. The government is most responsible for a whole range of matters. I will list only nine: the lack of protection of the DSO, because Mrs. Marolt Meden of Srebrenica is not even talking about gerontocide, non-action or very limited operation of the non-public health care community, inadequate equipment, so-called Golf Passats, the lack of cadres, the problem of education involving more than 300,000 people on the ground, if we count the parents, guardians, is probably more than a quarter of us, quarantine decisions that you initially wanted to put on the shoulders of 27 epidemiologists, and then the primary level of misunderstanding of the primary level, there is no social dialogue, there is no economic-social world, every PKP law has a nebulism, for example the equating of the proms, always forget about too many groups of employees and too many economic activities, the proposal of the Black Fund for Recovery, sent to Brussels, there is an unreadable machintalism, there is also a lack of cadrum. These are the facts. That is why, Mr. President of the Government, I simply ask you: How will the Government of the Republic of Slovenia deal with the increasingly tragic statistics of the epidemic that we now have in the second wave? I thank you for the answers to this particular question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u16	Thank you so much for asking. The government is not dealing with statistics, nor with windmills to the wind, but with problems. Of course, there are many who wait for the government to do something and criticize it without proposing anything. Or they wait for the direction of the public opinion to be defined. We're used to it, and we don't even deal with it. Since March, 80 % of the government's capacity to deal with the epidemic has been in place. And this is what colleagues and colleagues in the government are doing for salaries that are relatively relative to our GDP, one of the lowest in the world. However, we are criticized by those who pay covid supplements instead of doctors, and by various leaders who serve 15,000 euros a month. So much for that. As far as the actual situation is concerned, the situation in Slovenia is the same as in most other European countries. Just a few weeks or a few days is different, depending on where the wave came from. The only major error made by the government in these measures is the “instruction” of school masks. Look at the statistics. A large part of the infections came from an environment where they said it was hard to work in a mask. I've been wearing it 18 hours a day, like, in health care for 10 years, and some people wear it all their life, and they're not paid much more than some people in school. And then our numbers grew because there were three, four times more positive in these occupational groups than on average, and because the disease in children shows no signs and is difficult to track. This mantra on how to close everything except schools that went through Slovenia probably brought us one week ahead of some other countries, but today they are taking the same measures that we have taken. Look, we're gonna jam this other wave. It could also be plagued by minor measures if the responsible majority were significantly greater than it was and if the irresponsible minority were significantly smaller than what it was. Milder measures, such as wearing masks everywhere or certain restrictions, whose respect depends largely on how we act in a society where politics is uniform, where the media are on the same side of responsibility, operate to a greater extent than where everything is divided. Tell me what measures you proposed in time, and the government has not taken them. Tell me what measures you've taken. Whatever the government did, it was criticized. If she didn't do it, it's critical. I'd be happy to sit down with anyone who has better ideas. Hours and hours we sit with the expert who proposes things. It's all documented, by the way, Members. Every day we know when someone proposed something, when something was adopted, what was the position of the government, individual ministers, expert groups, ministries, whatever was possible to reconstruct. Also a major front against the purchase of large quantities of certain medical equipment, which today is a critical point when the purchases began to be investigated before the articles even came into storage. On the other hand, after ten years, another billion euro washes have not been explored for terrorists and so on. A few more of the same criteria should be met when looking at the current situation. And I would like to stress this once more, and there will be time for that. There'll be time for that. Parliament will always be here, there is no state of emergency, you can have meetings, investigative commissions, institutions working, everything can be explored. On the other hand, perhaps we could wait a week and give those on their shoulders the responsibility of deciding on health, life, and death to do their work in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Dr. Duck, you have your word for a request to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u18	I'm afraid I have to find out now that I didn't get an answer. You know, it's a little strange to say "government is not engaged, it's not dealing with statistics". At the same time, the Secretariat has set up a group to deal with modelling, which is supposed to watch this epidemic progress and act on the basis of it. If you're insulting the opposition here or me or anything, it's no problem. But you're insulting a whole series of top-notch experts and experts. Secondly, it is not true that the situation across Europe is the same everywhere. The Foreign Minister was in the Baltic States and sent all three foreign ministers to quarantine. That's not the situation we're in. The virus came from school, not from school. You're always attacking the media, which you should be or should be our main partner. One of the key groups with an atypical crown, where the virus spreads significantly, is a group aged 18 to 35 years. I sent a question to the government about how we're going to address them, how we're going to target them. Yesterday he rounded up a video of them being targeted in Germany. The head of epidemiologists himself says that communication — I would call it non-communication — is chaotic. Kacin, Hoys, Krk. People say, "When I see them, I turn off the TV." Then, unfortunately, this shadow also falls on Mrs Beovic. There are no fire-fighting measures, if I may say so, in the DSO, although we have had three experiences. You've got some eyebrows on your official profile over there over the Soča. You too must come across the bridge, Mr. Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u20	Yeah, I don't know if there were any questions here. But as far as the steps are concerned. In May, we offered all the opposition parties a cooperation agreement. Some have accepted it, I thank them and participate in the preparation of measures and legislative projects. Most of you have been rejected by this agreement, even though it did not place any responsibility on the opposition. He gave the opposition only the opportunity to participate from the very beginning in legal projects and also in the fight against the epidemic. This offer is still on the table – accept it, you will be there from the very beginning, you will be there when the expert group presents proposals for its actions and you will be part of these dilemmas that are ahead of my colleagues and colleagues when decisions need to be made and when they need to be made quickly. There's a sixth antikron package on your food. Six. In each of these anti-korona packages there are several legal changes that have a real impact on people's lives. As you did in the first half of this term, while you had a government, you accepted certain things throughout your term of office. In the entire term. There are several changes in the same package, and now you have a sixth on the table at the same administration, with more or less of the same rules and administrative environment. And it is clear that in times of distress, mistakes also occur. We do a lot of things. We make mistakes. On the other hand, I don't see anything but criticism, no suggestions, and, I'll say, handwashing. If we suggest something, you're against it if we don't propose anything, it's critical because we don't propose. We're used to it, but it affects public opinion. This has an impact on the need to take more stringent measures rather than on the militaries. And I'm reminding you that this is not over. Here, some people act like we're from an epidemic. No, we didn't. And there's no guarantee there won't be a third wave. It's about time we got real, isn't it? From this point of view, he really thanks his fellow Jew who wrote: let us criticise the government, but let us respect the measures because they are designed to protect the health and life of all, not just government coalitions and opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u21	Thank you. Dr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u22	The majority of the remaining part of the opposition, however, has never had a problem with respect for the measures. We do not need any additional protocol, Mr Janša, because we have a small constitution, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Nor did the opposition want to sign this because in that document you requested that laws not be discussed in order to be dealt with by the government alone, but that they raised their hands a little. It's a derogation from the National Assembly. It's also not nice for a two-and-a-half-year-old to lie. In a series of PKPs we have proposed a series of amendments from the opposition, all of them have been rejected. Except for the opposition, which is not the opposition – what Senator Polnar said on Saturday – from the SNS. That's basically facts. I'm not going to abuse any more. It seems to me that we need some serious debate, including a debate on the capacity of this government to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. The next question to the Prime Minister will be asked by Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u24	Thank you very much. A nice hello. Dear Mr. Janša! This weekend, Slovenia was surrounded by this painting. There's a food delivery guy who's probably sitting on the stairs every day to eat his daily meal, his lunch, his two-euro burek. To which two police officers approached him and, following the orders of your government, imposed an additional €400 fine on him for this burek. As you can see, he didn't endanger anyone. He sits outside because his job is outside, on a colleague, taking into account the security distance, but he got a 402-euro bill from your government. And that's not the only absurd thing that happened this weekend. I hear, let's say that merchants from food shops had to withdraw the lamps and so on, because after the new Mercator under the block that is open, only the food can be sold. How exactly this will contribute to the resolution of coronaryism, you alone know. But this picture, Mr Janša, I tell you, because it will one day be written as an illustration of the incompetence of facing the crisis by your government. When you were appointed to the mandate of the 14th Slovenian government eight months ago, despite experiences from the past, in 2012, when your government fell, you enjoyed only 18% of public support. The support they measured at the time was two-thirds. And you had only one task, that is to use 30 years of experience in politics to bring the country together and successfully through the storm of the crisis of the coronavirus. But you've made up your mind about something completely different. Instead of doing this, you have on average suspended the directors of public institutions, one after four times in eight months, allowing members of the government to vehemently violate the measures you have prescribed, to mock the media, the process, the institutions, the opposition, every day for several hours, to argue on Twitter, now you've even stumbled into foreign diplomats and journalists, with which you have accumulated Slovenia's greatest foreign policy disgrace so far. But if I go back to this picture, Mr. Janša, this is a picture of your despair. This is a picture of a leader who's out of his hands and who's just clinging to it by sharpening the measures to absurdity, but who's no longer taking advantage of anything, except trying to show some power that you've lost when you've gambled away all the trust that you and this government have had in eight months. No matter how you put your fingers around the media, on the opposition, on anyone, on this crisis, Mr. Janša, it is your fault in the first place. Therefore, my question is quite simple: Why don't you accept this fact? Why don't you take responsibility?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u26	Look, you've already been in a coalition or you've been a super-coal client and you've contributed to someone throwing a rifle into the corn. Now I see you're still trying in the same direction. If everything was like you said, but if everything was like you said, I don't know why you won't take over. Your uncondemned coalition member of the maize coalition has recently declared that he has 46 votes. If you have 46 votes, set up your government, because you know, you know everything, and normally you will continue to work and someone else will show some pictures. It is not even worth answering because all of this is a single contradiction. By the way, the police explained it wasn't about delivering food. It was about disrespecting or disobeying a decree ordering the wearing of a mask. The person in the picture doesn't have the mask you showed. See, all these measures are taken to minimise the number of contacts. My youngest son goes to second grade, and he understands that. The purpose of these measures will have to be explained in the Parliament of the sovereign State. Exposing this, I would say, lying about obvious facts only helps to make more people see it. It says, "Whomever I put at risk, I'll put the mask down, I'll eat something." There's no problem if one of us does it. The problem is, if there's a lot of it. But it is enough that this is a few percent at the time of the epidemic. That's why we're here. That's why we're here. And you're making a hero out of someone who broke the decree. And it's not a decree that was directed at not knowing what, but a decree that is designed to protect public health, including your health. The government has nothing to do with inspection and with the police because they're doing their job. All over Europe, such decisions are adopted. Where they're not yet, they will be. Because the epidemic with this second wave goes gradually, as it did in the first wave, from country to country. Last week you were all setting an example for Austria as to how there was no prison, how everything was fine there, we were reading on the singing networks. From tomorrow on, the measures are even stricter there than they are with us. I don't know how we don't know how to look around. Even before us was the Czech Republic, even some other countries. We saw what was going on there, and we knew where it was going, so we took action. And there was fire in the roof, czech, only Slovenia closes schools, only Slovenia introduces a ban on movement at night and so on. That's not true. Look, we are in daily contact with the Heads of Government of the other Member States of the European Union, we are talking, we are coordinating, it is not only our profession here, it is also an expert in other countries, we are doing what is also the result of some collective reflection and numbers. Almost every week is a video consultation of the European Council, no one here is an exception. Perhaps countries where there is no such fragmentation and where they do not show such images and make heroes out of those who violate the decree will come cheaper through. I'm afraid we won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u27	Thank you. A friend of the moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u28	Thank you. Mr Janša, I suggest that, once we are finished, you organize a press conference and demonstrate to people how the burek is with the mask. You're saying the man didn't have a mask. Yeah, of course he didn't have it when he ate burek. Apparently you're not just the main epidemiologist in this country, but you're the only one who knows how to burek through a mask. So make a press conference and show it. Second thing. Speaking of masks. Look, Mr. Hoys, your retired minister, you forgot to open the envelope, he took the mask off in Parliament. Did he get 400 euros in fines? Did you say anything to him? I didn't hear you. Last week, when you broke the RTV leadership in the middle of the epidemic, Mr. Stuhec, once again a friend of your coalition, came to me with nothing, nothing for you in that session, and you pulled a mask on your chin. Has anyone in the coalition convicted him? Did you convict him? Look, Mr. Janša, these are the things that make you lose confidence. You come one and you do something else. You were talking about second-class citizens. This, Mr Janša, is a picture of a second-class citizen. A deliveryman who drives a bicycle in Ljubljana for five euros an hour must no longer eat a burek in peace, but will receive 400 euros in fines. On the other hand, everyone from this coalition species or government can take off your mask and no one will get hurt. This is the country you're creating. What's worse is that you stick to power by strengthening your media machine that you've set up, which you're now using as some megaphone to repeat all kinds of bubbles that praise your government, but with this, Mr. Janša, you're doing real damage. The only achievement in these last eight months is that you have divided the citizens and citizens of this country as they have never been. Instead of listening together and drawing this nation through the crisis united, citizens and citizens of this country are now divided as never before. So I repeat the question: When will you accept responsibility?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u29	President of the Government, you have the floor to supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u30	We are in Parliament and such words are part of a normal political vocabulary. The Member of Parliament is still young and has much time to learn what life is. Maybe in 10 years, he'll even be named Janez Jansha, just like his candidate in the election. Let's give it a rest. But as for responsibility, you obviously agree that this government works because you say you have 46 votes. You have a mandate holder who has proposed that Slovenia withdraw from the euro, name him, take over the helm, get out of the euro, out of the European Union, in accordance with his programme, and we will see how it ends in the next elections. Don't ask us to step down if you can replace us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u31	Thank you very much. A fellow moon. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u32	Thank you. Now it's expected, the answer I got, a little bit with paternalism, is true, Mr. Janša, I am 30 years younger than you, which I kind of consider good. On the other hand, some of these puffs and lies in the sense that Jože P. Damjan wants to get out of the euro and the European Union.I mean, please, who believes this. I know, you have your own media device that you're spreading through. But that's the main problem why you and this government should go. Yesterday a friend sent me a passage from Francisco Varela, thinking about the Chilean Civil War, who said: “This is how it started with us. One newspaper said it was sunny, another newspaper said it was raining. One newspaper was said by a person but is a dirty pig, another newspaper was said by a person but is the king of the universe.” If it sounds familiar, go look at these media called by the Prime Minister of the Government today, which he picked up from Trump as some kind of populism, and compare their reporting, in Slovenia, can be foreign to what Nova24 says. You, Mr. Janša, are creating a parallel universe to keep you in power. The last time Gary Kasparov wrote nicely: “People like you and Trump are trying to take a part of the public out of a shared shared reality and establish a parallel reality in which you will rule forever.” But with that we're skating into what I read to you earlier in the Chilean script. Because if the shared reality is no longer shared, it means that the political community is divided. And you, Mr Janša, are literally toying with this because of some personal ambitions. Not just with the lives of people during the epidemic, you're toying with the total division of people and you're not even looking at it. Now you've answered me a little bit with paternalism, a little with blisters, a little with some lies. But I suggest we talk about this in Parliament, because obviously you can't, because you don't listen and you never did. However, there will have to be a thorough discussion in Parliament about how long, Members and Members, you will still have to cover the back of such a policy, which is dangerous not only for a short period of time during the epidemic, but for the medium and long term. How much longer are we going to see that someone can literally make fun of himself every day on Twitter to their own nationals, out of the public domain, horning everyone in a mustache, while some part of the population that believes him is hustling and trying to defuse him from some common shared reality and establishing a total discord in the nation. Not only will Mr. Janša bear responsibility for this, but you will bear all those who have his back.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Can I have some peace, please? The next question will be asked by Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u34	As can be seen from this introduction and from all the issues raised before it, the current government is currently and, in fact, from the first day of its operation, meeting and dealing with the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic. For what purpose? To protect human health as much as possible and to minimise the long-term impact on the economy. Of course, we must, and we must, be a government ministerial team, as well as coalition partners in the National Assembly, do our best to implement the other coalition commitments enshrined in the Coalition Treaty. All the measures enshrined in this coalition contract are, of course, important and necessary. In the SMC, as in the liberal party, we give particular weight to the joint coalition commitment following the arrangements for the production and use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes. In the SMC, we believe that it is time to start talking about this subject as well and that taboos begin to fall, because in our view we cannot build this future on maize, we need to change the skeletal bureaucratic views on the use of this plant for medical and industrial purposes, as well as for nutritional, scientific, scientific and research, veterinary and agricultural purposes. Why? Due to its comprehensive use, its positive synergies and many opportunities for an economy facing many challenges during this difficult period. The fact is for sure that Slovenian legislation in the field of cannabis is one of the most obsolete in Europe. And in Europe, this is a multibillion-dollar business. It benefits many industries, not only industry, but also people in the areas of health, nutrition, care and environmental protection. The fact is that all our neighbours are moving forward quickly, and in recent years Slovenia has not adopted any law or other act that seeks to fully regulate this area. So here we are. Bureaucratic skepticism prevents any effort to fully regulate this area, and of course this is not good. That's why, Mr President, I'm asking you: Does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia support SMC's intentions after regulating this area? What steps can we expect from the Government that we will finally move forward and stop this harmful practice so that it is much easier to ban something than to make sense and comprehensive arrangements? Prohibition, of course, is not appropriate and is the most harmful to consumers and society, and it imposes a particularly unnecessary burden, so bolder steps are needed in our view.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u35	Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u36	Thank you so much for asking. However, I must add to the previous lie that the proposal to break down the euro or that the euro is a fascist creation, Jože P. Damjan published in Mladina. If anyone thinks it belongs to the government media, then so does this. As far as the issue is concerned, the Coalition Treaty in Chapter 6 on Agriculture and Rural Affairs requires the Government to regulate the production and use of hemp for medical and industrial purposes under point 6. The arrangements currently in force are the arrangements that summarise the United Nations Convention. There has also been a rather serious discussion of this arrangement within the UN, within most countries, for some time now. There are changes, including arrangements derogating from this Convention. As far as regulation in Slovenia is concerned, it is likely at some points when it comes to the cultivation of hemp for medical and industrial purposes. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, together with the Food Safety Authority, is preparing an amendment to two regulations. One is a Regulation for the authorisation to grow hemp by introducing the possibility of growing hemp with fruits and hemp in greenhouses, and the other is a Regulation on the cultivation of seedlings which will lay down conditions for the production of hemp seed suitable for marketing for further production. The adoption of both Regulations is scheduled to take place next spring.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u37	My colleague Janja the Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I must say that in the SMC, as you all know very well, we have already tabled a proposal for a parliamentary law on this subject in the previous term. At the moment, we are finalizing the preparation of an upgraded version of the law because we support the production and processing of hemp. But the fact is, as I said earlier, that Slovenian cannabisrs are also in an unenviable position as to what is already permitted. As far as industrial hemp is concerned, we do not even have the right conditions to grow such as Austria or Italy. Or if we are talking about the basic document for the operation of Slovenian cannabisrs, i.e. the Single Convention on Drugs of 1961, which is still in Serbian, despite the fact that the three committees of this National Assembly have already decided that it should be translated into Slovenian at least. In the SMC, of course, we expect that when we finish this legal text, that this joint coalition path of this law will continue to support it, the government will, of course, provide the appropriate service to adopt this legislation as quickly as possible, which is a prerequisite for not all other European countries to outrun us both on the left and on the right.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u39	Thank you very much. President of the Government, would you like a word of supplement?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u40	Yes, I can only say that everything that is the implementation of the coalition treaty, all acts are subject to coalition coordination, not only by law, but also by law, and so will be in this case. I agree that some of the arrangements are because of the fact that Slovenian producers put the producers in an uncompetitive position with the environment and that this needs to be regulated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have completed our questions and answers to the President of the Government. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. We are moving on to questions from Members and Members of Parliament, first round. Aljaž Kovacič will ask the Minister of Education, Science and Sport Dr Simoni Kustec and Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, President. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! You've had four months to prepare for the second wave. I will now not talk about other areas, but I will focus on children with special needs. Finally, numbers speak for themselves in other areas. With regard to distance education that we currently have, it is a fact that everyone still does not have equipment, computers, and there are many places where there is still no Internet, so that children or computers cannot use it if they do not have Internet. Web classrooms still do not work as they should, even though you had four months to prepare. Finally, in the LMŠ we also called on the committee where we warned you about this. And the profession itself is on its feet — the profession that should be involved in these decisions — are teachers, educators, and psychologists themselves. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] So there are still no equal opportunities for all students. As I mentioned earlier, I'm asking you about children with special needs. Many of them have escorts. What about the escorts of these children now? So they can't help them at home. They have specialist treatments in the framework of education. How will you deal with these problems? Children and adolescents who are involved in social health institutions, where they learn such things as feeding, how to wash their hands, how to play, these centers are closed today. How are you going to handle this? This group was not adequately taken care of in the first wave. Their condition, stagnation, even the decline of children with special needs have deteriorated. On the other hand, we have a great deal of trouble for their parents. The parents of children with special needs, the many societies that care for them, the profession itself and also in the List of Marjan Šarc warned you in time to prepare an appropriate plan and take care of this vulnerable group. That's why I have three questions for you, Minister-respected: How will you organise, taking into account meaningful measures to prevent the spread of covids, the educational process for this group of children will continue smoothly? How will you make sure that children in need of specialist treatment will come to them? How will you provide protection for those children in need of professional protection and their parents are unable to do so? I ask you for specific answers and not in terms of, we will be able to do this and warm thoughts, because this will not help anyone, there are specific answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Member Kovacich! You ask the question about actually the most vulnerable learning group in our educational process, these are children with special needs. First of all, let me say that we are certainly coming from the assessment that this is the group that is also in the educational process now in the most difficult situation. As in fact, all students, students, students and teachers are in different, now indisputably difficult situations, not in situations that could be comparable to conventional education in educational institutions. In this group, however, this situation is even more difficult due to the specifics of this target group of students, both in education and in general, I will say this to life. We are aware that this situation is further complicated and further stressful also for all those with whom these students are on a daily basis, I am talking about their parents, I am talking about teachers, I am talking about professional workers who work with this group of students. Perhaps in just a few words, what responses and attention have so far been given by the competent Ministry of Education to this group. Well, first of all, I'll say operational documents. I hope the Member of Parliament is still interested in this question because he has left, so I will [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry. What did we do? We've done it since we were 13. 3. When we entered our term of office, it was Saturday or Friday evening, immediately 15. 3. already sent the first district for this target group of pupils and pupils to primary schools. And then to this day — here I have printed — we have sent so many circuits. A number of guidelines have been drawn up by the Institute of Education as an expert body. The last guidance we prepared together with the NIJ and dates back to 30. This year's 10th is an additional recommendation for institutions for the education and education of young people with special needs. This is what you ask directly in the context of your first question. As far as your second question is concerned, the Minister of Health will be able to answer you most directly, as this is more within his purview. As far as your third question is concerned, of course all PKPs that are active are assisting the parents of these children so that they can stay at home during their education and therefore receive adequate financial compensation. Let me just say one more key thing. All employees — from teachers to professional workers, the whole school, principals and all the professional support in the background — are the ones who are especially concerned about these students now and especially those who are handed over to them. Because of this principle of distance education, it is an approach that is highly individualised and requires particular additional efforts and additional attention. We must also be aware of how important and committed all these workers, including health workers working with this target group daily, play a role at this time. It is likely that the Minister of Health will also provide some additional information on this, but what I can assure you is that, in the given circumstances, there is absolutely constant daily high attention, especially at this professional level, for this target group, from the educational level to this advisory, consultative and, of course, health level.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, do you request a supplemental response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u46	The Minister of Health hasn't said a word yet, but yes. I am aware that you have sent, Your Honor, a circuitry, but the fact is that these parents and their children are in so much trouble that the circuits will not unfortunately help them. So I asked you three specific questions, because these students have their companions, who are now unable to use them to help them. Then the individual classes that you mentioned. I've been in contact with a few of these children's parents, and this is such a long-term deficit that, unfortunately, these children will probably never be able to recover what they're about to lose. Not only are not all teachers able to perform, but these are special teachers who have individual classes with these students and unfortunately even other teachers are not able to perform this, let alone parents who are not trained to do this. If everything was as good with this circular as you mention, I would not have given the Government an initiative with my colleague Jerco Korča in this regard, but in particular we gave the initiative because, as I mentioned earlier, they also turned to us in the society of Mavrica, reminding us of a lot of problems and gave us a lot of solutions. In fact, parents call daily on this subject. Otherwise, both ministries are committed to this because it is also a matter of health care, but the fact is that it is mostly education. That's why I'm expecting not just the circuits, but you to tell me: What will you do about the companion, when will he be able to have companions, when will he be able to have individual hours? These are the years and years of some help to children who are now really going to be hurt so much that it's actually hard to talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u47	Thank you very much. If I understand correctly, Mr. Minister would like a word. And Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! I'll be here in a minute. Look, I think that when we take action, we are really aware of the consequences of such measures. When we talk about children, the consequences that ordinary children already have due to lack of education, and even more so, children and adolescents with special needs. It is therefore difficult to decide where to limit movement, contacts, contacts with a measure. From our point of view, of course, I will not now explain how we are in the area of health care because of the extraordinary burdens, given that these numbers are probably to a large extent known and that health workers are becoming increasingly difficult to deal with this epidemic. And this is the main criterion – the capacity of the health system – for most of the measures taken by other countries around the world. Unfortunately, we have come to this situation where extreme measures are needed. We have now advocated extreme measures to put an end to this vicious circle for as long as possible, realizing also that these children, which is the only thing that will solve their problem for a long time, are left to study or to institutions. I believe that this can be achieved by such a measure, which is proposed, knowing once again that we are always weighing where the consequences will be extraordinary. At this point, we have assessed that it is the most critical other area and that it is necessary to accept things that are of course difficult. I'm really sorry these kids fell into this category. You need to know that the most active population is infected, the largest percentage of those infected is between 35 and 55 years of age, including the majority of teachers. In fact, we also had many infections among them and even among these children themselves. So I see the only way, with strict adherence to the NIJS instructions, that after two weeks in truth – and they will be among the first to go back to the school bench – this period we are somehow trying to bridge and help if there is anything else possible. I don't know the area well enough, but I hope this is the last time we talk about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Comrade Kovacic, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u50	Thanks again for saying that. I understand that the Ministry of Health is standing in its own sphere, but I would expect the Ministry of Education to fight as hard as the Ministry of Health is fighting for its area, so that, Madam Minister, you will fight for your area. As the Minister of Health said, a final measure for a short period of time. We need to be aware that these students and all the other students have already been in school for two weeks now, or they are going home for three weeks now, plus another two weeks, which means more than one month, if we know that they have been in the last school year, and I don't remember, but I think they've been home for almost a month. And here it goes, as I mentioned, for individual hours. There might also be a lot of safety to be done in order to allow these hours to take place. We know that the system we have in the Republic of Slovenia is not optimal. Parents put a great deal of effort and money into individually regulating experts in these areas so that they can help. So if a country gives them one thing once a week, they pay each other to have it maybe twice, three times a week, so that their child can progress. Mr President, I think that, because of this difficult topic, the National Assembly should really discuss the answer given by the ministers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. The next question will be posed by the Magi. Bojana Muršič, Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Janez Cigler to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u52	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! Minister, I understand that you are facing a covida crisis, but I feel that it is important to look at the whole matter more broadly, as employment will be extremely important in the coming year. We are approaching the end of the year, and this will also end active employment policy measures in the field of public works. As a result, a new call for public works should be published in an extremely short period of time and consequently the integration of unemployed persons into active policy programmes, as active policy programmes have been extremely important for the promotion of the social and labour participation of vulnerable groups of the unemployed for many years to come, thus making this all the more important in the coming years. However, it is particularly important for me to raise the issue, because unemployed people who are involved in these public works programmes and who will not be able to meet the whole condition of involvement in public work this year, according to the prescribed deadline of a year or even two, face the end of the year with great difficulty, because they do not know how it will be after New Year's holidays. If the invitation to tender has not been published in due time, it should be applied to the employment agency and await any new inclusion. But it is not only a problem of unemployment, the inclusion in active policy programmes is reflected in the institution itself, because in a very short period of time it is necessary to re-establish the entire employee administration, which means that there is a need to increase the number of employees in the institution or to activate them more now, as they are working in institutions today who can do work from home. Since I want such persons and employees to be as relaxed and satisfied as possible at the time of the holidays to experience as little mental distress as possible, I ask you: When will the Ministry issue a call for public works in 2021? How much funding will be earmarked for public works in 2021, how many unemployed are the targets for inclusion in 2021? What will be the conditions and which target groups will have priority in public works? So much for once. I will ask further questions below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President! Dear Mrs. Mursic! An extremely important topic of active employment policy is also one of the first three priorities of my ministerial team, a responsive labour market and the inclusion of the most vulnerable long-term unemployed, which is primarily intended for the public works programme. Perhaps to begin with, I am just orienting that in the first ten months of this year, 3 000 177 long-term unemployed persons were included in public works programmes. This year, most of these public works programmes, with the exception of social security programmes, included the largest proportion of long-term unemployed recipients of financial social assistance. During the 10 months of 2020, thousands of 842 unemployed recipients of financial social assistance were included in public works, almost 60% of them being included. A total of 850 disabled persons were included, which is almost 27% of the total. 38% of all public works programmes were over 50 years old and almost 16% of those with low education were included in public works. This is an oris that actually confirms what you have highlighted as an extremely important segment in promoting the social and labour inclusion of the most vulnerable groups of the unemployed and improving their skills and employment opportunities is a programme of active employment policy and a programme of public works within it. Public works programmes are selected on the basis of a public invitation. The public invitation to choose these programmes in 2021, and you ask the most, will be published within one month. Public works will be framed in 2021 with a projected weak €19 million to include approximately 2 000 people. Public works are regulated by the Labour Market Regulation Act and represent a specific programme within the framework of the job creation measure. However, the priority for inclusion, as we have both previously established, is for long-term unemployed persons who have been continuously registered in unemployment records for more than two years. The Institute of the Republic of Slovenia will travel to selected social protection public works programmes for long-term unemployed persons, including recipients of monetary compensation, who decide to participate in the public work programme during the period of the right to financial compensation. In view of the second part of your question or comment, the incentive to assist the Employment Institute of Slovenia in the integration of the unemployed into the labour market, I can say that our priorities and our activities are covered by this proposal, as we have already communicated several times publicly, especially the Human Resources and Finance Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment during the PKP4 and 5 respectively, where we have earmarked resources to enable the institution to strengthen the number of employees, so that it can carry out regular tasks and all anti-Corron packages on the way through, as you know that, above all, measures for the labour market, waiting for work, working hours, and some others fall into the employment facility, and we want to enable it to carry out all of this for the benefit of citizens, for the purpose of protecting jobs, also without delay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Colleague Mursich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary for your answer. But in this place, I'd like to point it out again. The publication of the invitation to tender within one month is extremely late or I will say recognized. Why am I saying that? I told you that, in fact, those who have not yet met the conditions of inclusion for one year are in an extremely unenviable situation, during Christmas and New Year's holidays they do not know how to proceed. Yes, of course, it's going to the Employment Service with 1. 1. they get some rights, but they re-engage the whole apparatus, such as the Employment Service, where it is necessary to carry out all the administration, the programmes must be approved in order to be able to be included. Years ago, when we were implementing these public works programmes, the calls were published on time and with a number of people who failed to meet the condition, it was possible to conclude only and only an annex to the contract, as the rest of the administration subsequently fell away. We all know that more people will need to be included in public works. You told me today that 2,000 people are expected to be involved. This year more than 3 000 of them are included, which means that the inclusion will be less. We spoke on the previous Member's question that we have problems with children with special needs. Public works programs may also need to be considered in order to help those parents who have such children. It might also make sense to think about a program to help children learn from a distance. Today these children are without any help, unable to find themselves, unable to do all this learning. These programmes may also need to be considered or I am giving you the initiative to include this in active employment policy programmes. However, I do believe that there is a higher number of first-time job seekers, those who have completed schooling, at the Employment Service. And even these people should be [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u58	Thank you very much. As you have highlighted, it is important not to announce this invitation too late. The covid-19 ratios are, I can tell you the truth, those who take our energy and time for some regular things. And here I accept the criticism. However, it is our task and duty to carry out the procedures in such a way as to avoid such unloving uncertainties included in the programmes that you have highlighted. Perhaps I can say that your initiative to integrate through the active employment policy of people who could offer distance learning support or maybe take care of children with special needs is welcome, and I would stress that work with children with special needs should really take into account the opinions of the professions. In a small defense, however, I know that this does not excuse that the estimated number of participants is slightly lower than this year, but I can say that we are thinking or going in the direction of raising the lower threshold or the lower limit of co-financing. We will go to all users or to public works notifiers and we will be the lower threshold, which is now 30%, and we know that 95%, is up to 50%. We are going in the direction of changing the public invitation or programme by raising the lower limit and thus more and better supporting public works operators. However, it is still true that public works are intended primarily to promote the social and labour inclusion of vulnerable groups, unemployed people, their skills and their employment opportunities. This programme allows non-profit employers to co-finance unemployment costs in public works programmes. However, there is more interest every year than the possibility of funding by the State. We are also counting on the social responsibility of these operators in 2021, which will give the unemployed an opportunity to pay more attention and provide additional assistance and training so that they can be successful in integrating into the labour market.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr. Mursich, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u60	Yes, I see it's an extremely important matter. Given that the Minister has mentioned that the invitation will only be published within a month, it seems to me that a broader debate should also be considered and held. With regard to all of this, of course, I absolutely welcome that you will raise the lower co-financing limit for all. With regard to the integration of the unemployed, however, I would simply say that the target for this year 2020 was 4 000 400 persons involved, as you stated, 3 000 177 during the first ten months of the year. As a result, I would be interested in, or would then be, the initiative or question, as it happens that for those programmes where only those receiving financial social assistance can be included, there is a shortage of adequate staff in the institution. It is therefore extremely important that you look at this issue a little bit more. Of course, the invitation to tender, although published, can then be supplemented or amended, so I think it is important that we discuss this issue more broadly, discuss, comment, propose. I will say, not comments, but proposals from implementation itself. Then it would have been easier for all of us, because the programs would have run. However, so much to give you in your defense, yes, even the invitation for 2020 was issued significantly too late, it was published in December. That is why I wanted to encourage you to think about this call more quickly and earlier, so that things would be crystallized in December, people would be much more calm, because also coronaryism, including integration, including the work now being done by people involved in public works, is not simple, the situation is quite different than it was years ago, and this would be an important step and an important advantage and a welcome for all, for employees at employment institutions and for the unemployed involved, who are facing an extremely difficult situation in view of the situation that is taking place today. Once again, I appeal to you to really think about a program to help children learn from a distance, because there is a huge deficit here, because these children will still really need help in order to be able to do so. Even a group of students showed up, actually offering help to children from a distance. Students who have completed their studies would like to transfer their knowledge to others, and I believe that you will then take that into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. Mojca Škrinjar will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku and Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Ciglar to the King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I thank both ministers for both of you answering the question. It's a complex issue, so I have both addressed the question. A list of sensitive topics in Slovenia is the attitude towards vulnerable groups. They are disabled, elderly, sick and socially deprived people, as well as such a sensitive topic of preserving Slovenian culture and language. We must surely be most concerned when one problem addresses several categories. For example, when faced with more serious problems at the same time, it is called the Backwaters. It is not the only municipality in Slovenia where the economy almost stopped, however, people leave the place. With the greatest efforts, requests from various ministers, even the president of the country has in the past managed to maintain the Osilnica branch school. If it were not, the parents of the students would be very likely to include children in a Croatian school, which is just a shot across the border. I would like to stress that Osilnica as well as similar areas in Slovenia are of strategic importance for the existence of Slovenians and Slovenian cultures in the border area. One of the activities seen as a development factor by the Osilni people is still an unfinished home for the elderly, which they believe will be completed as soon as possible in accordance with the Coalition Treaty. Assuming there's no question about the coalition contract, I ask: In the context of development plans and ideas, does the government plan to gather the best ideas and initiatives in the country that will address the problems of the demographic and economically deprived communities in an integrated manner? With the outflow of the most ambitious people from such desiccating areas, what we can understand is difficult to expect a lively roaring of the best ideas in the environment. Do the Ministry of the Economy and the Ministry of Labour, Family and Equal Opportunities perhaps plan interdisciplinary experiments together, including the collection of ideas from different directions: economics, cultural heritage, urbanism, architecture, agriculture, sport and development? Perhaps we could include students, graduates, doctoral students in different directions to prepare our ideas. After all, Slovenia also pays higher education studies and applications from this interdisciplinary area would be welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Madam Member Mojca Škrynjar, thank you for the question. The Law on the Promotion of Coherent and Regional Development sets out the problems of high unemployment areas and borderline problems of areas as priority areas of all development policies. The Regulation on the establishment of border areas shall specify the criteria for establishing border areas of concern and the list of municipalities which meet those criteria. As a result, 90 municipalities are considered to be borderline problems in the area. In this municipality, however, there are one fifth of all people who can live in an extremely sparsely populated area. This area is further governed by a programme of development incentives for border problems in the area under preparation. The aim is to improve the quality of life of the population, encourage entrepreneurial potential and prevent people from moving out of these parts of the country. In any event, the aim is to allow for equivalent working and living conditions throughout the country. We plan to launch the programme measures in 2021. Nine ministries are involved. However, the measures taken by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology are as follows. Our ministry will implement similar measures, as already implemented in the area of job conservation and job opening, in the area of tourism promotion, in particular activities for the development of infrastructure and tourism products. The Ministry has already implemented measures and has adequately allocated and distributed funds for them in 2020, 2021, subsidies to promote investment, equipping business zones for a well-known investor in border areas, subsidies to start businesses in problem areas through the Slovenian Enterprise Fund, favourable development credits for investments through the Slovenian Regional Development Fund, we also publish a public invitation to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the field of tourism to increase substantive and energy efficiency. Our Ministry's calls for projects from border areas of concern set additional points in the selection process, saying they have priority. Since you explicitly mentioned the Osilnica Municipality, it is also included in the programme to promote the competitiveness of Poslpija in the period 11-20. I will then answer more about this question to Mr Predrag Bakovic, who asked an exact question. At present, however, negotiations are also under way with the European Union on a new financial perspective. In addition, the recovery plan planned a large share of the funds for this purpose. Our development plans also mention areas, even more heavily deprived areas, including other areas with similar challenges. In view of the above, we intend to resolve the demographic and economically deprived municipalities in an integrated manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Colleague Shriner, you're requesting a supplement to your response. Even Minister Brickler King.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, Madam Mojca Screencaser, for the question. My fellow Minister for Economic Affairs has very well outlined the global dimension. With regard to the provision of capacity to care for the elderly, which is the priority of our team at the Ministry in this mandate, and the key theme now also because of the crown, I would specifically say that the project is in the coalition contract and we are committed to the implementation of this project. In the context of what my colleague has said, and in the context of our efforts, of course, we are looking for the possibility that this project in Osilnica should not only be established, but also in the medium and long term that this project could then continue to live. Surely the provision of capacity to care for the elderly can also be a generator or an incentive to other aspects of life in these border areas of problems. The Ministry of Labour has already met with the team of Osilnica Municipality or we have been in regular contact and have also introduced them to the state of the project. Talks between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Health, which could also participate in the work of the project, because you know, if we provide capacity for the care of the elderly, we also need adequate capacities in the area of health care, namely purely basic health care, because in the homes for the elderly there is a need for these services and the aim on the part of the Ministry of Labour is to make the construction of the home in Osilnica possible by the end of 2020. But I can't tell you exactly what time it is, because the talks are still going on and on. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Colleague Shriner, do you request a supplement to your response?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u68	Thank you for both your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Primož Siter, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. A fellow Member shall participate outside the seat of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u70	Good afternoon. I hope that we are technically provided as is necessary. I will ask the Minister a question regarding the education of children and adolescents in secondary and primary schools from home. In the spring of the epidemic, measures to prevent its spread in primary and secondary schools were defined at a distance, and the Government has now repeated or adopted a similar strategy in the autumn. The spring experience testified to the inadequacy of the method and now the government repeats the mistake in the fall. The design does not take into account the advice of the pedagogical profession, the social circumstances of pupils and students. For this successful learning process, we know that both factors are important. The inefficiency of this kind of pedagogical process was already clearly expressed in the spring work both by parents and by the teaching profession and by the social profession. Parents especially over the inanimateness of this action, it is difficult to do this, for example, if you have two, three children, to work and study and homework and household chores and work obligations. Teachers and educators reported insufficient learning conditions and consequently poorer success in students and students, in short, poorer conditions for their own teaching work. That we don't even talk about teacher exhaustion. The additional problem is also a social aspect. Many children at home are neither provided nor safe. Many children are hungry at home, in cold, victim or witness to psychological, physical, sexual violence, in dangerous circumstances and without the material conditions provided, cameras, computers and everything such a process requires. Despite warnings from the Ministry in springtime, it took a similar method, an ineffective, non-life method in autumn, so I ask the Minister: What are the assessments of the implementation of the schooling measure at home in spring and now, to the extent possible, in autumn time? Why did the Ministry of Education instruct primary and secondary schools to carry out distance training, which proved to be ineffective? Which and whose professional, i.e. pedagogical, social and labour recommendations have the Ministry taken into account to regulate the autumn time strategy? How does the Ministry provide normal working conditions for teachers in primary and secondary schools during distance teaching? What measures is it and will the Ministry take to equalise the conditions for distance education or to reduce the differences between students and students? How will the ministry help students and students who have no material conditions for distance learning? And the last question: In what way does the Ministry provide social security for students and students from dangerous backgrounds who are more exposed at the time of the epidemic? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you for the question, Mr Siter. I see and I hope you're well and you're well. First, let me say what the reasons are, once again, what are the reasons for the fact that the education system throughout the country, and practically for all students at all levels of education, is going far away. This is an epidemiological, medical, professional assessment that this is the moment for the health of all those involved in this process. At the same time, of course, the evaluation of the teaching profession is also in the work that says that education must take place, I believe that it is uniform, and on this basis, in fact, the decision that distance education in these given circumstances is the most optimal possible approach. So, if we don't, and if we can't take education to schools, then education is a far-reaching decision that, I believe, is more optimal for everything than the decision that there would be no educational process at all at that time. In fact, there would have been enormous damage. The undeniable fact is that the quality of knowledge and of the education process itself in this period of education is different. This difference is actually reflected through at least three main segments. One segment is confidently already through the organisation of the distance education work itself and is also related to the issue of the standards of the teaching work that you are asking about and for which we wanted it not to be reduced and that we need to find a way to say that, from this point of view of the normative work process, this work is going on in the same way that employees can also get the same salary as they would. Then another aspect is that of the content of learning plans and of the learning tools used at this time of distance education. What is a reliable expert assessment is that this requires certain considerations, adjustments. At the same time, we all work together, and we want this distance education to not take long and, in the light of the fact that it will not be necessary for anything essential to be curiculative or systematic. If that were the case, we would, and we're ready for a scenario like this, but we want and we're doing everything we can to make sure that this doesn't happen. That is why we are adapting now also through the Institute of Education with professional guidance, what are the content that is easier to adopt at the time of education than it is to give them more emphasis, in what way it can then be easier or better tested by knowledge and by what educational equipment to do so. In the light of the latter, in fact, all the time since spring, we have paid great attention to both the acquisition of the necessary educational ICT equipment for schools, for their pupils, and, of course, to the re-education of employees in the use of this information and communication equipment and technology. A number of possible tools, so-called e.i., E.I., have also been added to the curriculum. Now that we are preparing a new call for textbooks for the next school year, we are also paying very close attention to this segment. In this sense, I would like to say that, in fact, there is always one constant attention and one incentive, one development moment which we also expect to be a positive result of this distance education period. As far as social security is concerned, in the first place, the activation of the aid rule is now in order to deliver free food for students from socially disadvantaged groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, would you like a word to complete your answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u74	Yes, please. Dear Minister, I don't object to the epidemiological measure of home schooling. What is disturbing, however, is that the general operating mode of the government of Janez Janša is work behind closed doors and that here we all miss making decisions or involving a wider range of professions. The problem remains, the current method does not repair any damage from spring. The teachers are still exhausted, they say they can't do it anymore, the parents can't do it, but the students still, the ones without the equipment, the others to say hungry. I will also be a little critical here, thanks to the plight of the coalition members, to arrange warm meals for them, a thing that is a few days old. So the main problem is not to say epidemiologically, it's pedagogical. During the second wave, the government is now preparing to solve the problems of the second wave, but even in the spring and summer, it has had time to do so. So once again, I ask: Why are you repeating the errors of the spring, checked non-functional method? Why do you not take into account the broader voice of educators and parents? Why do you dictate to your teachers what we know at the start that they can't do? Why do you set up a state that is already divided by society, most painfully, even more devastating among children, poverty and social exclusion? Why are you repeating your mistakes from the spring? Why haven't you used the time to create a more friendly, more fruitful, more lifelong model of distance learning? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u76	Thank you very much. In fact, all of us from our spring experience continue to be extremely attentive to the effects that this education brings on the distance. Once again, what is an indisputable fact and has already proved itself in the spring, but now this experience also strengthens or confirms that the school is, in fact, a physical space, not only that primary space for knowledge, but that is much more. This is a place of socialisation, and nothing can replace it. What we need to do in this meanwhile, until the situation improves epidemiologically, all of us together – as parents and teachers, as well as, of course, teachers, as I will say, the first professional authority that works with our children in schools, as well as the various professions, not only the teaching and psychological profession, is now very important here at this point in time to do everything we can to get this period together in the best possible way, and I believe that no one wants it. I believe that at our own level of responsibility, as well as competence, we recognize problems and seek solutions. What we can do at the Ministry level is, above all, to ensure the best conditions for education to run. In what way will this then take place, but it is already at the level of other groups and stakeholders involved. And this is what, in practice, I will say, in 70% of school cases, even the work of principals and individual teachers is confirmed to be feasible, it is different, but it has adapted to allow the educational process to continue. However, we certainly have problems where, for such or other reasons, these adjustments have failed to be activated and we are actually helping as much as possible there. In order to be able to help out in a way that makes long-distance schooling look like schooling, unfortunately we can't do that. We don't really have that ability. What we can do is really help each other at this point, involve each other, and come up with some constructive, alternative solutions, better solutions than those on the table now. And I assure you that we do it all the time in the sense of the teaching profession. On Thursday, the expert council responsible for education organises one major expert debate on all of these topics, which you are also reminding yourself of.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Comrade Siter, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u78	Please, thank you very much. I will be constructive and positive, as the Minister has suggested, and I propose at the outset a procedural proposal for the National Assembly to hold an extensive debate on this subject, and I will justify why briefly and simply. The key problems remain and are clear on the white day. We all agree with that. We can't do this kind of thing for our parents. Remember, a few days ago, she circled a message from a mother who said: “I have two children, I can’t have three children, my children won’t join the school anymore.” Teachers are overloaded, they are burdened with as many hours a day as workers in nursing homes. They themselves say that there is no desired educational effect or goals achieved. Children from dangerous backgrounds remain in dangerous environments. CSDs report an increase in domestic violence in these days. As you say, Minister, school is a place for socialization. True, the school is also a safe place and a place where a child from a poor family can eat. Children are deprived of material conditions, poverty remains at home, some children, as we have heard, do not even hope to turn the camera on if they have it so that the schoolmates do not see what situation we are living in, and so on. In short, all children cannot afford what the Ministry of Education determines in the framework of home-schooling can't do that at all. These are the problems that need to be addressed. I understand, once again, that we are in the middle of an epidemic, and I understand that quarantine and isolation serve to prevent the spread of infection. Look at me right now. And at this point, your parents and your teachers don't mind. What your parents and educators, the government of Janez Janša, resent is that this inanimateness and social discord from the first wave did not bring you lessons in the design of a strategy in the second wave, and that you did not, the whole government, react in a timely manner, prepare for this second wave, that you could devote time to important areas such as health, social and education – underlining education, aimed at personnel, attacks on the media, foreign diplomats, to invoices from some arms business. This is the irreparable damage that has occurred and may have lost a whole generation. This has to be changed, or the third wave will be worse if it comes. You'll make the same mistakes, the kids will be hit, the parents, the teachers, they'll continue to be exhausted, the only government will be profiting again in the meantime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. The next question will be presented by Maša Kociper, Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u80	Dear Minister, a lovely greeting on my behalf as well. In the SAB before the elections this time, we have warned that for this time, health care and health problems are what were the problems in banks for the government of our President, Alenka Bratusek, and the need for these problems to be resolved so that society can function normally. In spite of the accumulated problems in this area, especially the long and long waiting species, this covid happened to all of us. And the situation is currently very critical. In the SAB, we have repeatedly warned that despite the co-dwelling, the disease that marked this epidemic cannot be anything more than an illness and we cannot expect all the other health problems of our population to hide in the corner during the epidemic and wait for the epidemic to pass. We keep reminding people of the problems. People do not come to see a doctor at the primary level, where it is found that they are sick and their disease is even more difficult to reach the secondary level of specialists. Particularly under pressure are various programs such as cancer control programmes and so on. Then various statistics show that the number of new cancer patients has decreased by a third, and we all know that the problem is that they have not been diagnosed in time. Covid and the new Coronavirus, in our opinion, cannot be overly ill and other health problems need to be resolved as far as possible. Your government, the government of Janez Janša, has then really added one provision to the fifth anti-korona package, which will provide the Ministry of Health with a basis for the implementation of a national call for assistance to the public health system, including private health institutions. Let me put it here, and you, Minister, are already aware that in the SAB we do not oppose such temporary assistance in principle. All we are opposed to is that this matter would take too long and lead to the privatisation of health care. My first question is: At what stage is the invitation mentioned, whether it has already taken place or what is currently taking place in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mrs. Kociper. Have a nice hello to everyone again! We're aware of the problem of waiting days. It's been a long time. According to data, 9.5% of those expected, 13.6% in the next two years, 17.7% in 2017, 25.2% in 2018, 40% in 2019 and this year were slightly lower, as not all of them have been allocated for services. During all this time, money has been used to shorten waiting periods, but 69.2% of funds have been spent or unused in all these years, which is huge and shows that public institutions themselves have simply not been able to cope with the epidemic of waiting periods. Therefore, thinking about including private operators at some point. Of course, one major reform of public health could probably create different conditions and otherwise involve public institutions. Only I think we have been talking about this reform for a very long time, and at this point we do not have time to leave and look forward, to monitor the rise in the number of waiting or unacceptably waiting patients. This is also why in this second wave of epidemics, which is really severe, we have taken a slightly different strategy. At the first wave, we just shut everything down, except for emergencies. We left it in the second wave. It is true that all regular work limits the growing number of patients with covid, which is today's number is 1264 occupied beds, of which 207 are intense. In these few days, this number is relatively static, but without it being reduced, it is difficult to count on that other programs to be more implemented. As regards the national invitation to tender. This one's ready. However, it did not seem appropriate for me to publish it in this worst part of the epidemic as long as these measures continue. As soon as we release these measures, we will also publish this call. It'll be valid for next year. This year we have practically missed co-vid, and it will not be extended automatically for all these operators in the following years, contrary to the invitation to tender as it was made at the ZZZS years ago. So it's next year. At this point, no one had been able to register with him and no money had been distributed. Maybe a methodology of what will be included. One part of the programmes, we left 86 million in the public health system for the first time in the middle of the year this year, agreed to all programme enlargements, to raise the price of first reviews, to set minimums, to put down borders to pay for realisation and so on. But it's going to be hard to do. On the other hand, this national call shall be subject to the publication of those prospective programmes which the CFSP pays up to a certain limit. So, where the hospital or the contractor has a restriction, these programs will be included from here on out. Here are various types of interventions, ears, nose, mouth, throat, orthopaedic surgery, gray marble, carpal canal, kilos, as well as ambulance EMG, EEG, ultrasound of the shoulder, neck arteries and so on. However, those programmes will not be included in this call for proposals paid by the ZZZ after the implementation of the public service. In this way this is foreseen, prepared and I really do not see any other option in the short term than that they are all involved in shortening waiting periods. However, I would like this period then to be used for actual changes in public health as well, so that it can then work more effectively further.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u84	Thank you, Minister. You have answered this key question whether the invitation to tender has already been made. However, if I continue to stay where I am, we in the SAB are defending strong public health care, but this must be really accessible. It is said that this is not only on paper, but also accessible to all those who need it. That is why we, if you remember, were in principle in favour of the possibility that waiting lines would also be reduced with the help of private people. However, we have proposed an amendment, supported by other opposition parties to set some order. So, the order in which money is spent and the limit. It is said that the invitation to tender is only valid for a specified period, but not for the time being. Now you've given me this second answer that spending time will be limited. I'm also interested in your answer: Why did you not agree, as a coalition, that money should be distributed first to public institutions, then to concessionaires and only to private individuals? And I'll tell you again why I think so. I will mention several times the case of our former fellow Member, or a successful orthopedic surgeon who operates in one of the public hospitals, because it doesn't even matter where and who tells us many times that he could do many more surgeries every year if he only had the money. Since October, however, operations cannot be carried out because the ZZZ does not provide money, even though it is available to him, nurses, space and so on. That is to say, if the only problem is that public institutions were not able to fully meet certain needs because there was no money, with three quarters of some material costs available, then we understand why they would not continue to maintain our good public health system while at the same time determining for a certain period the possibility of these tendering funds, but in order as I mentioned earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u85	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Look, we're absolutely defending the public system. And you need to know that all countries, through which we also follow suit after all, have a shared, largely public work and, of course, a private one, which is probably normal somewhere. And we are, if I look only this year, I think we've tried a lot to help with the epidemic and other reasons for the public system. The pay-as-you-go imbalances that make hospitals go to waste have been completely eliminated. Provide for all this equipment extra, all that extra money. Finally, they paid an unrealised programme up to a certain percentage due to objective circumstances in order to sustain public institutions and to work. Of course, this does not replace any concrete reform. If I look at the invitation to tender, it will probably be very difficult to go discriminatoryly, because I think that any slightly better lawyer or not would have challenged such an invitation to tender if we started differently in this way, to set us up on such a criterion. I can be wrong, I don't know. But anyway, that information that was important to me was what I used to give you. It is said that in recent years only 69.2% of the money for waiting periods has been used by the public system alone. And once we get to a point in the middle of the year or fall, someone says in public institutions, and now we can't do that anymore, we're gonna run out of time again, and the waiting hours will only be longer. That's why I think one year is the period where we see what we can all and do together, we reduce it. Of course, there is a great deal of change in public health at the same time, let this be a pay system, let this be a way to finance and stimulate these public institutions. Public health problems have accumulated a great deal, and these are also reflected in waiting times. Finally, part of the money is due to the fact that all the years, hospitals have been running programs beyond the ability to pay the insurance company, and therefore, of course, the loss and undervalued services and so on. But we're trying to save, and there's a patient who's waiting a long time, and we can't leave him for the next two or three years, which doesn't oblige us to move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u88	Yes, Madam Vice-President, I would just like to use my business opportunity and suggest that we discuss this in peace for once. In the case of the amendment proposed by the opposition parties on the proposal of the SAB, it seems to me that there was no time for this debate. It is, however, that I think that if ever, Sir, it has proved to be what a great added value is to a strong public health system. We see what their problems are in America. I'll tell you, my colleagues, the mediators I'm talking to, most of all, they're worried that if they get sick with co-workers, how they're going to pay for their health, how they're going to pay for their treatment, how much tests cost, how often they should be tested because it's a huge cost. And this debate, why some order is not appropriate in this invitation to tender, we have not had time to carry out. Personally, my opinion is that this thought of you, that it would be to favour one group against another, would not hold back. This is always a matter of weighing the public interest. And the public interest is so clear in the case of the distribution of state funds for health needs that I think they should explain without a hitch why they should first get money from public institutions, especially if there is a problem in public institutions that I have mentioned earlier that people not only have doctors, nurses, support staff, premises and materials to do more services, but they cannot because they do not have the money. If this is the only problem, then additional funding in this order of things could, of course, make a big difference. I know you don't have a chance to answer me, but if you had a debate like this, I would also like to talk to someone like you once, about what these doctors are doing, I don't know if they're using the term appendage, so say doctors who have a regular salary and a regular working-law status somewhere in public health, while working somewhere else this afternoon to significantly improve their material position. I wonder if the problem of our waiting species is also that such types of doctors instead of working with full capacity and energy where they are primarily employed work in the private sector. Again and again, let's say when I hear a commercial from the Mutual or any other insurance company, we talk about waiting types here all day, and there we have commercials on TV: "Are you worried about waiting types? You don't know anyone who'd push you across the line? Come to the Mutual or any other insurance company and tomorrow you will be on your turn." This is humiliating to our system, where we have invested so much effort and energy and money in public health. So I hope that Members may support this proposal in order to hold a public debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u89	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mojca Žnidarič will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac and the Minister of Environment and Space mag. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A lovely greeting to all present! Ladies and gentlemen, both are already aware that the story of the Ormož-Ptuj-Hajdin road, which will better link the armosa area to the highway cross and has great significance for the locals of Lower Podravje, has been going on for more than two decades. If we are on Markovci-Omoz section, the selection of the contractor is currently under way, and it is still complicated at Markovci-Ptuj section. No suitable solution has been adopted so far for the journey of the last part of this road to Ptuj, and an interdepartmental working group was appointed last year. In this regard, I am therefore interested in: How is the work progressed by the Interdepartmental Working Group, which has to choose three options for the Markovci-Ptuj section, which will then be assessed? What is the current stage of this process, or how far is the Interdepartmental Working Group on the selection of these three options? Does the working group have any deadline within which to choose the most appropriate options? Can you provide any information as to when the most suitable route could be placed in the space if all activities were carried out according to plan, so what is the optimistic scenario? And questions for the Minister of Infrastructure: When will the building permit be issued under the integrated procedure for the second part, from Goriška to Markovci? It was foreseen or planned somewhere by the end of this year. When will the contractor be selected to build the first two sections or when could the construction of the section from Ormož to Markovec begin? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Minister Mag. Andrej Vizjak, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. As you have found, the Interdepartmental Working Group for this first part of the Ormož-Ptuj road met this year and has been meeting since then at practically monthly meetings. The working group has so far proposed a new option, potentially suitable from the point of view of local communities, based on the verification of additional variants and the optimization of existing variants. This is a so-called optimisation of the existing S4 variant. Thus, there are currently five variants in the verification. At its last meeting in October 2020, this year said, the working group decided that all operators of space regulation would be invited to supplement the guidelines in the first week of December. Before that, investor Dars has to prepare the necessary materials, so it's only then. On the basis of these guidelines, the members of the working group will decide which variants will be compared in the variant study. So it is now December of this year's deadline for these options to go on the basis of opinions from opinionators. As regards the building permit in the integrated procedure for the second section, namely from Gorisnica to Markovec, the investor is in the process of supplementing the documentation according to the requirements arising from the opinions of the respondents. As regards some additions, the investor wants coordination with individual employers, in particular Ars, the Department of Nature Protection and the Ministry of Agriculture. After the completion of the coordination, there will still be a need for public disclosure, which is 30 days, and possible treatment with the parties, 24 days. This will all affect the date of issue of the building permit for this second part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Minister Jernej Vrtovec, you have the floor for the second part of the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Let me say that with the selection of the performer Dars, the process itself began in August, the end of the month, or somewhere, yes, at the end of August, if I recall. The procurement procedure for the acquirer is ongoing. The invitation to tender was drawn up in two stages. In the first phase, the capacity of tenderers shall be determined. At this point, let me say that we are, in fact, at the first stage in the final analysis, waiting for essentially a legal decision on the recognition of competence. A number of constructionists have volunteered and are capable of doing so. Now we're going to phase two, so we're going to phase two at the beginning of December. During the second stage of the tender, Dars will essentially choose between the tenderers an invitation to submit only the prices. Of course, all of this depends on how many complaints will arise at the first stage. This may linger if, in accordance with our Public Procurement Act, a large number of complaints will come, it may quickly take about a month, but in principle I believe that this will not happen. And if there are no complaints, then at the beginning of December comes the beginning of the second phase, 40 days when prices are collected. We can have a builder for this part at the beginning of next year. But, of course, without a legal building permit, we will not be able to build, but Mr Vizjak has already talked about the building permit for this part. We believe that this can be obtained in the first half, and we want it to be obtained as soon as possible. We are conducting a parallel process of obtaining a building permit solely to ensure that we are not late. So it's parallel when we get a building permit, we can collect suppliers, so we can get three, four months. And that's what I promised you when I was in Ormog in May, June, and that's how we're running it now. Finally, this project under this government went from a dead end to a dead end.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u95	Thank you very much. You have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I thank you both for your answers. Yes, and it is true, I am glad that you listened to this idea and that the call for the selection of the contractor actually went out before the construction permit for the second section was issued, that we are not losing these months again, because with the loss of all these months we have already come to twenty years. If I understood Minister Visjak correctly - only if he fixed me or confirmed me - yes, indeed, the current working group is operating with five different options and the working group is the one that has to choose three from these five to be considered. If I understand correctly. And in December, you said you were supposed to choose these three. In essence, I thank you both for today's answers and also for the constructive cooperation that we have so far, and I recommend that this cooperation continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Minister Visjak, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u98	Yes, I'd like to confirm what you've asked further. It is true that the options chosen must be previously assessed both in terms of social acceptability and in terms of the acceptability of the space regulators. Because then these options are feasible, it is later in the production of documentation, both the DNA and, of course, the building permit, less complications and therefore it is wise to devote a little more time to this, as I speak about social acceptability as well as opinionaries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Minister Gardener, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u100	And this part around Ptuj, from Markovts to Ptuj, will be solved faster when we finally start building phase one and phase two. Because then — what did we have a problem with now? We've always had a problem with the unanimity of local communities. Some would like a northern version, one southern version, and no one would have a solution that would at least have a little bit if it were going into its space, let's say, no, that's not a good solution. So we want to build Ormož - Gorišnica, Gorišnica - Markovci as soon as possible, and then we will, I believe, get a solution around Ptuj as quickly as possible. What Mr Vizjak said is very clear, this government is trying to get to this fast road as soon as possible because the local population has only been listening to promises for 20 years, and we have finally started the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The victory of Jelinčič the Noble will ask the Minister of the Interior Aleš Hojs a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Not long ago, we had serious incidents in Ljubljana. I want to know: Who's going to pay for this damage and who's going to pay for all those cops who were there and had to work on these riots? Who's going to pay the helicopter flight hours because the costs were definitely over €800,000? Did the police find out who the main thugs were? If she looked, what does a foreign element mean here? The fact is that foreigners from Europe and some from the former countries of the former Yugoslavia were also present at the incidents. I'm asking: Did the police at the crossings describe those foreigners who, say, arrived from Austria or Germany that day and crossed our border? Because it would make sense that probably on Thursdays no one goes to Ljubljana for any fun or places, when everything is closed. After 9:00, the so-called curfew was called. So I want to know: How many punishments did the police issue for these riots? Now we have also noticed that the police have been much more defensive than they have been handling matters, after all, 15 police officers have been injured and no rioters have been harmed. Here too, something will have to be done, and those who have caused injury will be punished. Of course, it may also be necessary to point out here once again that our borders need to be protected more strictly and more strongly, and therefore, Mr Minister, I hope that we will accept the 37th article here in the National Assembly in order to settle at least a few matters. Interestingly, when this case was in Vienna, there were both policemen who shot the terrorist that our media said was an Austrian citizen and a Macedonian citizen, and no one said it was an Albanian terrorist. Those two officers were decorated for their actions, but with us, the police had orders not to be too harsh and not to use any more powerful incomes, which I don't think is good. Minister, I ask: Will you order police officers to take a little more stringent measures next time this happens, as well as other coercive measures?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! If I start from the back. I have already written in my orientations there somewhere in the spring police how to proceed in the event of accidents or at that time they were not accidents, but they were only protests that took place weekly in Ljubljana. I must say that, among other things, I have also written down that I expect the police to act capitally, professionally and that she is not the one who would cause any kind of violence. I must say that this was carried out throughout the spring months, of course, although far from being able to say that those protests, i.e. Friday's protests, were not violent. Just remember those initial Friday protests when people on the street cried out that it was necessary to kill the Prime Minister, or maybe we could illustrate this thing with a performance that, of course, is not a performance for me, here in front of the National Assembly, where they stoned the doll of the Prime Minister, you'll remember that well, probably, or when they burned my doll. Look at the old reports and you'll see how the protestors symbolically burned the interior minister's doll. This does not seem to me to be non-violent, it seems to me a direct call to violence, so of course I cannot help but say that Friday's protests, even though some would now like to be seen as completely benign, completely without any influence, far from being non-violent. What I think is very essential, what you have asked very correctly, but I think the Slovenian public is also interested in, and this is very much interested in, of course, costs. Unfortunately, I have to say here that we are paying for all of this. We pay taxpayers for all of this. Each Slovenian – at the end of the year, I will be able to calculate – will learn how much he contributed to Friday's protests, where, under the terms of reference, there are no organisers, what a Thursday protest was, of course, in terms of police insurance. However, I said a while ago that the current costs of protection, under quotations, and maintaining order and peace on Friday's protests, I am talking only about Friday's protests, have exceeded half a million euros. It is necessary to know that a fence must be set up, that police units must be activated, that all these police officers must be paid, which is perfectly normal and right to be paid. That we know how long the helicopter here had to do his job on Thursday, of course, these costs are enormous. Unfortunately, for once there is no other address to pay these costs than the state budget. Of course, it is necessary to say that looking for organizers in such cases is, of course, relatively difficult, because none of these, including Jenul, has ever been declared an organiser, although you will see old videos, and you will see how, together with journalist 24ur.com, you will somehow direct Friday's protest. Mr Jenull tells her which way they'll come, the lady asks him whether they'll turn left or turn right and so on. For me, it is by common sense that this organization of protest is, of course, an organization of protest, and that is not the case for legal regalists. The same was true of Thursday’s protest. I must say that as soon as the police noticed that some of them, including Anis Ličina on Facebook and on other public networks, called for these protests, finally his television statement was, I think, recorded some 14 days ago or even more, I do not know the exact date, a sufficiently clear call for violent protests. At that time he made it clear: Please come 5. 11. The protest, which will not be chiming, has somehow been expressed, but will be a real protest. This, of course, proved or indicated what could have happened to 5. 11. As far as abroad is concerned, I must say that many of these explanations have already been given by Owl, because you, Mr Member, know what was at the closed meeting of the KNOVS. I think the report was pretty comprehensive. I have to say that the Slovenian police all those who came from the south, I speak at our border crossings, so not checkpoints, registered, so I know who joined the country that day. But while the entrance itself is from the north, as you have found correctly, it is a little more difficult. As you know, we don't have border crossings there, we only have checkpoints where we don't actually control, given that we're in the Schengen, as precisely as we do on the southern border.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'm also interested in: Who ordered these protests, who called in strangers, and who paid? Such protests are not free of charge and a significant organisational matter is needed to achieve this. And we know that there are left-wing political parties and their exhibitors here, but probably also some other left-wing elements beyond actual policy, but also in some economic spheres. I want to know: Did you find out who was throwing the dice, who was throwing the pyrotechnics? This is about direct assault on the police, on state offices. We really need to react here. Look, they've closed a whole bunch of mosques in Austria, and they found over 25 million euros in cash in these mosques. And if we look at that in Austria, especially in Vienna, the concentrated circus is 250 Imams, most of which come from the former Yugoslavia, here we also have to find parallels, and eventually parallels with the mosque in Ljubljana may also be with those who have supported the construction of this mosque. They also say that, for example, when Mr Jankovic made a statement that he is against it, some who are close to him say that it is a pre-recorded statement, which again raises certain questions. I don't know if that's true, but, you know, there's rumors like that coming out of our ears. Above all, as far as left-wing is concerned, it is important to say what Mrs Tanja Fajon said. She said, “I thank all those who tried to stir up unrest.” What does that mean? Isn't it obvious here now that she was in trouble if she just thanked them? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u108	Commissioner, I must say that this statement, which you quoted at the end of this quote, shocked me too, that the President of the Social Democrats publicly thanks all those who have caused the unrest, I think, too, I would say, scandalous. I was really surprised at that statement. As far as Mr Jankovic's speech is concerned, I must say that I personally do not believe that this would be recorded in advance. I must say that, as I also made public, Mr Jankovic called me on Friday morning at 8.15 a.m., somehow, and told me to give thanks to the police for their successful work. I told him I'd do it. But of course, I immediately made it public that this call was and that I would convey these thanks to the police. At the same time, of course, I wrote that I expect to hear from him sooner, because I think that his word at least in this part of Ljubljana is quite valid. If I had called earlier on these protests not to be violent, the question would have been if we had developed into what they had become. So I believe he'll do it sooner and not post-festum the next time. As far as the investigation is concerned and what was going on in Vienna, I must say that we have received this information. As soon as the police received this information, they immediately dramatically increased their readiness on our northern border. At that time, there were indications that the terrorists from Vienna could also withdraw to Slovenia. Fortunately, that didn't happen because the police don't have this information. As for the facial recognition itself or the identification of those who were doing the damage or the last time I went through the protests myself, one of the cubes even flew into the water cannon and hurt him pretty well. I'm talking about a broken sheet or that this vehicle is damaged. All these events were recorded, including the camera on the water cannon. I expect the police to be able to identify those who were here, if I say so, the most bloody or the most hooligan. There are some obstacles, of course, because quite a number of these people have been disguised. As you know, they were wearing either hoods or jokes over their faces and stuff. But I think there's a lot of work going on at the police now in the coming days to make it happen. But I've already thought about maybe inviting all people in the future to make a platform on the Ministry's website where you who record these things, that is, ordinary citizens, would then give these films to the police, which would actually be easier than sending them to one or the other, but that there's a platform where it can be uploaded.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for clearing up those concepts regarding Mr Jankovic. For indeed his word could have largely stopped a large number of these participants, given that they heard about most of the non-Slovenian language in these protests. I hope that the police will identify these people who caused this damage and that the prosecution will process them. It's a terrible thing when a person reads in the media that the prosecutor declares that he will not process those who have done so. While she gladly gave it, perhaps not the same one, but, say, the prosecution was happy to shut down Šiška, who was essentially protecting Slovenian borders. He fought to help the police control these crossings across the border, and they locked him up while the robbers were running wild in Ljubljana, smashing, destroying and injuring police officers, and these people have permission. One wonders whether the prosecution is operated by people who are against Slovenia's independence and who want to break and destroy Slovenia. This is also where the police should launch investigative measures. But it's about identifying the perpetrators. I don't think the police are going to find out much. After all, those gentlemen who threw that oil into my house didn't find one, and after a certain time the police wrote to me, "Mr Jelinčič, if you discover anything, you know, let us know." I have no right to investigate who did this, but the police have to do more. The police are extremely good in certain segments, but it must be said that you also have eggs on the police force that are very damaging to the reputation and, above all, security within our country. Thank you very much. I'm not asking for a debate in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u111	Thank you very much. It's a bit of a violation of the rules of procedure, but we're moving on. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u112	Dear Vice President, thank you very much. I will probably abuse this procedural proposal a little bit, but given that our President Tanja Fajon's statement has been abused by both Mr Jelinčič and the very unsanitary Minister for Home Affairs, I must say that this was the lapsus of our President for whom she apologized. And if the Minister were honest, I would say that in reply to my colleague Jelinčič, without going to abuse it himself. And once again, it was a lapsus that could happen to any, even the most experienced politicians. What has now been done by Mr Member and Minister is at the very least unhygienic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u113	Yeah, it's true, it's an abuse of the rules of procedure, and I'll give you a reminder of that next time. Thank you very much. Let's move on. Edward Paulič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. Today I will talk about the hospitality sector, but the issue is still relevant for other industries that had to close or limit their operations, for example, the industry meeting is one example, hairdressers, fitness centres, beauty salons and could also list. The hotel is therefore one of the most affected sectors and employs almost 40,000 people. The fact is, it is on the verge of survival, since five months will be closed this year, but some will be longer, and not on their own account, but to preserve public health and prevent the breakdown of the health system. The activities that needed to be closed also allow another part of the economy to work are a so-called principle of solidarity. And despite the fact that the innkeepers don't operate, they get a certain fixed cost. And if this industry is sacrificed for the public good, it's fair to pay them back. Unfortunately, the anti-Korona packages so far have not addressed this issue properly enough and we can already see that the guests are predicting forgiveness and the closure of their activities. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested: On the basis of what analyses and indicators have you decided to close the inn activity in this and in the past? In what way will you approach the resolution of the hospitality sector?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u116	Dear Mr. Edward Paulic, Honourable National Assembly Vice-President of the National Assembly! Thank you for asking. I'm aware of the problems of the guest-tourism economy. I've been in daily contact with representatives of this industry, and I know they've been spending the most difficult times of the last 30 years. In the five anti-Korona packages so far, we have addressed a number of economic problems as the Government, not all. And we're not hiding from that fact. Many of the measures already taken also help the restaurant, I am talking about measures: waiting for work, working hours, introducing tourist vouchers for all persons residing in Slovenia, exceptional assistance in the form of monthly basic income, co-financing of protective equipment. In addition to these aid packages, various public invitations to tender are also available to the guests within the Ministry and the implementing institutes. We have also changed and developed some of the existing financial instruments because of the innkeepers, because we want the money to come where it is most necessary. This month, through the public agency SPIRIT, we will also publish a public call for co-financing of operating costs for companies in catering and tourism during the covid-19 epidemic. The total amount of the measure is EUR 10 million. Since I said this month, it means random days. This measure is intended to co-finance the operating costs of catering and tourism companies during the epidemic. The application will be fully electronic, this is according to the system of vouchers. Since I said that the invitation to tender was issued today, we received 90 applications in the first hour. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, including espies and cooperatives in the field of hospitality and tourism, will be eligible for funding, which carry out their main activities in catering activities as well as in the areas of accommodation, travel agencies, congress activities and art. An individual company will be able to receive a co-financing of EUR 9 000 999. It's about grants. And once again, the application is fully electronic, this is based on the voucher system, non-barbaric and fast. We do not design our own actions as a government or ministry. At MGRT we have a consultative body, this is an expert council for tourism, in which are representatives of all key stakeholders, Chamber of Commerce, Tourist Guest Houses, Hotelizers Association, Congress Office of Slovenia and others. Their opinions and suggestions are of great help to us. In cooperation with them, we are already preparing a new package of measures to upgrade the PKP6, which will be decided in the National Assembly by these days. Why are we in such a hurry? Since new questions and new economic problems are emerging from a month to month, we do not want the economy to be left without adequate answers because we would work at the normal rhythm of many previous governments. The forthcoming sixth package of measures to be considered in the National Assembly responds to the specific problems of this part of the economy, which is most affected by the second wave of the epidemic. These are craftsmen, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, many also from the area of hospitality. I would like to point out a key new measure for me, which partly reimburses fixed costs. Beneficiaries will be legal and natural persons registered before 1 September 2020 with at least one employee. The eligibility period shall be from 1 October 2020 for a period of three months and the amount shall be calculated on the basis of the sales percentage in 2019, depending on the fall in annual revenues, the eligibility condition shall be a 40 % decrease in annual revenues. The hospitality and tourism experience a deep decline this year. The virus has set up a high wall for all of us, a limit that cannot be overcome otherwise than with patience and consistency. The economy is in great uncertainty if we show that we care about the community in the coming weeks. Most of all, I want two of my own: to stay healthy and to be able to work again, even under certain restrictions. This will make it easier for all of us, and now all we have to do is monitor the situation, respond to it in time and establish the conditions for normal work in the future as soon as possible. I will do everything in my power to keep our economy in good condition after the end of the worst wave of the epidemic so that it can only make its way forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u117	Mr Pavlič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you mentioned two measures – PKP6 and a public call to help businesses. Both measures I know or have read them, and it is my feeling that in PKP6 you are throwing into the same basket of activities that have been closed by a government decree and those that have been or are still open, but because of market conditions, they are not doing their best. And I don't think that's right. It would be fair to reimburse the activities closed by the Government's decree in full. Thus, we are talking about salaries and contributions and all fixed costs, such as electricity costs, municipal contributions, rent costs and the like. We need to know that these activities have been used up mostly in the first wave of the epidemic. You probably know the case of Germany, the country will cover a certain percentage of last year's revenue there. I think it's 80%. This is not the same as covering a certain part of fixed costs, as you suggest in the CAP6. And the innkeepers are already warning that these measures are likely to prevent them from surviving. So once again, I ask you: How do you plan to prevent the disruption of hospitality and other service activities, given that PKP6 does not fully address these problems? Are you thinking about extending tourist vouchers to the hospitality industry?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u120	Thank you. First of all, the measure of partial coverage of fixed costs is simple, so that we can help the innkeepers quickly or all small and medium-sized enterprises, including large ones. And in this measure, the payment or cost of energy is covered, in addition to the NUSZ and the costs of insurance. When you talk about the case of Germany and Austria, we are familiar with each other, but the first part of their action is always told, but it is not said that this measure is organised or intended to follow the example of de minimis. And in our case, I believe that we have mostly addressed the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises, including innkeepers. We would like to emphasise this, and I also said that we are aware that we have not addressed all the problems that small, medium and large businesses have, and that is why we have started with activities in preparation for the PKP7, in which areas that have not remained sufficiently covered will be addressed to the greatest extent possible. I think you asked me about the tourist voucher measure. First, we have adopted on a petition the possibility that the Government will extend this measure for a second year. Why? Because we didn't have a chance - I think we came up with something under half - to take full advantage of the tourist voucher measures because of the second wave of the epidemic. Therefore, the Government will extend this measure. The law says we can extend it for one year. But at this point, I cannot predict a new, similar action for 2021. This measure, the present one, was intended to help the guests in 2020. Once again, I would like to point out that we will also provide for measures in the PKP7 for the inn and for the individual other specific sectors which have not been addressed by general measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u121	Yes, Commissioner, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a debate on the answer at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u122	Thank you very much. I would still comment on these two measures. It is true that PKP6 provides for partial coverage of fixed costs, but the conditions for reaching these funds are relatively strict. The condition is a turnover drop of at least 40% in the last quarter of 2020. The maximum amount is thousands of euros per employee and the level of coverage of these fixed costs is relatively low, 0.6% of annual sales revenue in 2019 and 1.2% respectively. Guests warn that this amount of funds will not be sufficient. That's one thing. The second is that you mentioned a public call for assistance to companies that were published today. This call also has relatively strict conditions. The condition is that the company has more than 50,000 euros in revenue, that it has a minimum of four employees and that it has settled obligations towards the country. And if I touch on this one, the companies that were severely affected in the first wave of the epidemic may not have been able to meet these obligations to the country, and this is the extermination condition of this call. Which means that, at least in my opinion, the aid will not reach the companies most in need. And given that this matter is still quite substantial, I would, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, ask that a general discussion be held at one of the following meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Predrag Baković will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravko Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u124	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Minister, welcome to my side as well. The programme to promote the competitiveness of the Colony between 2011 and 2020 expires this month. These measures have, of course, achieved some of the objectives set, but there are still a lot of open things left in this area, from unbuilt water networks, including many road infrastructures, there are still no broadband connections everywhere and so on. It is true that the Pocolpinje programme has also achieved positive effects in terms of reducing unemployment rates and even awakening economic development, but the net added value of the employee still deviates from the Slovenian average by a good 22%. As a result, wages are lagging far behind the Slovenian average, while continuing to maintain uncertainty about jobs. In the municipalities covered by the Pokolpje programme, a relatively low added value to the employee and also the demographic picture continues to deteriorate. The number of people in these municipalities is decreasing, which is higher than the national average, and also in the south-eastern region. The number of students, students and students is declining, and the number of pensioners is increasing. On the basis of these indicators, it is clear that the measures under the Pocolpium programme are still necessary and are therefore very necessary. That is why I am referring to you with the following question: On the basis of the above facts, how do you assess the effectiveness of the Cholep’s Competitiveness Promotion Programme? Has it achieved its strategic and operational objectives? Since the program is running out, I'm asking you: Do you intend to continue with the measures relating to the municipalities of the Pocolupje programme? If the answer is yes: How do you intend to proceed with activities, to extend the competitiveness promotion programme or to prepare a new programme or new measures? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u126	Dear Member Predrag Baković, Honourable Vice-President of the National Assembly! Thank you for asking. In 2011, the government adopted the Competitiveness Promotion Programme of the Pocolpium 2011-2020, which is implemented in the area of the municipalities of Črnomelj, Metlika, Semič, Hostel, Osilnica, Loški tek and Kočevje. The programme shall be concluded on 31 December 2020. This was an extension speech, but the extension of the programme is not envisaged, as the condition for the declaration of a high unemployment area is not met. The basic condition for determining the high unemployment area is at least 17 % of registered unemployment at the level of the administrative unit. The municipalities of Pocolpia express a lower rate of unemployment. At the same time, however, all the municipalities mentioned are border municipalities, so we intend to continue to take action in this area’s borderline problems. The Ministry, in cooperation with other competent authorities, is preparing a programme for the development of incentives for these border problems in areas with which we intend to improve the quality of life of the population, encourage entrepreneurial potential and prevent people from moving out of these parts of the country. I have previously answered the question of Mrs Mojce Škrnjar before about this programme of border areas of concern. According to our assessment, the programme to promote the competitiveness of the Coalpes has been successful. Within the framework of the programme, we have implemented a number of measures and instruments that I cannot now list because time would run out. Therefore, I will focus only on achieving the objectives, with 136 initial investments carried out or carried out in the framework of public calls for large investments. With this, we or we will create 490 new jobs and 365 new or restored tourist resorts. This exceeded the programme indicators by the end of 2017. More than 500 new or restored beds have been created so far. The backlog of net added value to employees in the Pocolp region, which was more than 41 % on Slovenian average in 2011, decreased since 2012 and was 23.5% in 2019. The number of registered unemployed is decreasing. The number of unemployed has decreased for the sixth year following the adoption of the Pocolpium programme. As mentioned at the outset, the total fell below 17 %. How's it going? As you have already said, the programme is running out and can no longer be extended due to a substantially improved economic picture in this part. However, since all these municipalities are part of border areas, there are already a number of measures in place for these municipalities in our ministry and we are preparing a programme of development incentives for border problems in an area where eight other ministries are participating in our ministry. This programme will include actions from all sources for these areas. More about this than I have said before, I have responded to the Member of the Box. In any event, we are aware of the need to create conditions for new production jobs in these areas through this development incentives programme for all border areas, which will allow people to find a life perspective in these areas with paid jobs, which will be such that there will be no need to move to more urban centres. I believe that for this programme and for the changes in this area we will also get the support of the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Mr Baković, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u128	Dear Minister, I am actually saddened that he is the only one or, I will say, the main measure for the effectiveness of the Pokolpi programme is only the number concerning unemployment. I am pleased to learn from your contribution that you are aware of these problems, that you are aware that the demographic picture is poor, in particular from this it is necessary to realize that this rate of unemployment in this area can change very quickly and put it back to worse, but then of course there will be no more Kolpje programme. Given that you intend to continue with some of the measures, which are also intended to represent the strategic and operational objectives of this programme, I am interested in: Will this somehow be an appropriate substitute for this programme of the Colossae, so that these strategic and operational objectives, as defined in the Pocolpinje programme, will somehow continue to improve this situation in this area of the country? Will this be an appropriate substitute for this expired program, or may there be more to be done? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u130	Thank you, honourable Member, for the additional question. I will repeat once again that the programme that is running out has produced concrete results. After all, what I have said is that the difference in added value with the average of the country has halved. On the other hand, we have created new jobs. However, activities should definitely continue in this area. I'm sure we'll agree on that. Of course, we cannot continue with this measure of problem areas in order to improve the results. We therefore estimate that with the general approach of border problem areas, which are all roughly equally affected, we will address what I said earlier the full weight of action towards creating productive, properly paid jobs in these areas. This is the responsibility of the State to encourage Slovenian and foreign investors to work or invest in this area. Otherwise, in general, we will come to the point that in 20 years not only in Pocolupia, there will be no satisfactory settlement in border areas. And the first concern of the state is to defend its borders. But we can best defend our borders with people who live there happyly and who can create some new added value from their work and give their families a decent life. And we will build on this programme for border problems in areas. If necessary, this project will need to be upgraded and supported by an appropriate law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Natasa Sukič will ask the Minister of Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u132	Thank you very much, chairman. Dear Minister, once again, it seems to me that I will continue somewhere where we might end up stuck a little bit on the Committee on Culture. Because I think I didn't get enough precise or all the answers at the time to some of the questions raised in this story about Metelkova 6 and the Natural History Museum. Restoring the story a little bit for those who might be listening to us, but then we're not. On the day the epidemic was declared, when a curfew was imposed in the 80s, it arrived at Metelkova 6 in the collection of NGOs operating there, an unpleasant shipment by the minister or ministry, a notice of termination of the lease for premises. Like lightning from a clear, without any prior notice or any prior dialogue. By cancelling the contract, Minister, we have to say that somehow you are expelling the people who have been working there for decades, the artists they have been creating there, literally exorcising them or driving them on the road, in the midst of the worst health crisis, which is, let us remind you, in the midst of a serious epidemic situation. There are more than 20 non-governmental organisations based on heritage, civil society movements, which, in the 1980s, have been a source of encouragement to these organizations, democratic social change and how it has helped us to have the democratic system that we have. Minister, at the emergency meeting of the Committee on Culture and then also in the interview for Nova 24 TV, you surprised us all somehow by saying that the Ministry of the Building at Metelkov 6, from which you expel NGOs, needs museum activity, which is a priority for the Natural Museum, which is one of the most endangered museums in the sense that it does not have spatial capacity. It's true, this museum is under threat. We all know that the Natural History Museum, in the current building, which has just been shooting since our Parliament, is running out of space, unquestionably true, but this problem is not from yesterday. After decades of planning, the competition for the new building of the Natural History Museum was held more than 15 years ago. Aleš Vodopivec made the plan with his colleagues, but this plan was then somewhat outdated due to the amended rules, so they prepared a new one. The new museum should thus stand in the Biological Center near the Animal Garden. That the Museum of Natural History should now move to Metelkovo 6 and that neither the Vodopivec nor those involved know anything. Minister, that's why I'm asking you: Is the operator for [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u133	I'm sorry, Madam Ambassador, time's up. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The lady began by expelling or sending a letter on the day of the epidemic, or on that day they received it, in times that were very inappropriate and bad times, and that it came as a lightning from the clear sky and that we were driving people out of Metelkova 6, where some people had their spaces for decades, and that it was, of course, something impossible and unjust. I must say, no one is banishing anyone. We sent a letter in which we accurately wrote asking that within three months they submit their opinion as soon as possible and that they are trying to find new places within three months. We all know that this decree can also be one-year-old, with regard to the way it would be said, cancellations of the lease relationship, of course, we will logically insist on this. On the last Committee on Culture, we have decided together to try to help these NGOs to find new spaces. In this regard, we have also sent a letter of inquiry to the Ministry of Public Administration, now to other ministries, and we will also try to reach certain municipalities. In short, we'll try to help if that works. We expect, of course, that affected parties in this process will also try to find themselves suitable spaces or invest energy in finding other alternative spaces, which would make our work very easy and also solve the problem that we all know of, this is the Natural Museum, which we intend to build or rebuild in the so-called museum district. It's the only house that hasn't been rebuilt yet, and it literally says this place. This place is becoming more careless and neglected every day, with some practices that are completely foreign abroad, it is a smear of walls that are called graffiti. These are some signs of some people, in fact, seeking their identity in such a way that they place their signs around houses, which is not happening abroad, because in different museum quarters in the capitals, everyone respects their place and is proud of it and keeps it as long as they are old. With regard to the things she was talking about, the plans for the Natural History Museum, which Mr Vodopivec has been preparing or preparing, we will, of course, give up and insist that we close this museum district. If there are any plans, I don't know on the basis of who, special orders, we'll check, improve or redecorate, I don't know. But I know that, for example, for the National University Library, plans have changed at least five times entirely unjustifiably and voluntarily by certain ministers and ministers. We will insist on what I have said. We want to end this in this space and to make plagues that will serve their purpose in all their generosity and message. That's what I'd say for once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u136	Thank you, Your Honor. You say we'll do it, but I'm interested: Why is this former plan of the Natural Museum and the new construction at the site of the Biological Center suddenly no longer in place, as planned? There would also be a slightly more logical placement. The former Minister of Culture Majda Širc, who seemed to her, for example, Vodopíč's architectural solution to this new building, is also surprising. If the Ministry decides that the project will not be and we will now move to the Metelkova building instead, we should, however, justify it a little bit more, but not that you have decided to do some karate and a dot there. She adds, quote: “The decision must be supported by facts, just as you must if you are rebuilding the bathroom, knowing whether you have enough money for a new shell or not. But you cannot ask people to move out within three months, but at the same time be without a plan.” She says she doesn't know what it's like in this case. That's why I'm asking you: Is there a building permit, is there a serious plan, or do you already have a select contractor to make it, or do you have architectural solutions on the table? Because I didn't get that right at the board meeting. These are important questions. You can't turn it all over there and then start doing it. So I'm wondering where we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u138	Thank you very much. I don't care what Mrs. Shirca says. But of course, I am interested in your question that you have asked me, and I will also try to answer it. Since you haven't asked me exactly, but there are only two lines, it's appropriate, of course I have all the material, but I should be looking. In 2018 an investment plan was actually made, and I am not really familiar with these technological matters. So it was definitely a plan with a precise reconstruction of the individual premises, what this Natural History Museum should look like. This was a plan that some of my predecessors had already advocated. Even in my time, it was one of the forms, but it wasn't that far back then, so back when I was a minister for the first time. However, it is now in this form of feasibility that we must take this seriously. We also have reserved funds for part of the Natural History Museum, possibly if this path begins next year. The longer we delay, the harder it'll be, of course. I hope we can go the other way. We will certainly follow the parallel story that these plans, which are in a certain technical form already made and carried out in the form of a book, will, of course, be carried forward in such a way that the feasibility and the beginning of the restoration of this house in favour and in the form that the museum is coming to pass. Of course, it will depend on how successful we will be together, not least that we will secure these spaces, empty them out and then turn them over to the final production to reach the Natural Museum, which certainly deserves it, and that this neighborhood, as I said before, will actually be a museum district in all its beautiful appearance and interesting for all generations of both Ljubljanans and Slovenes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u140	I still have a procedure. Yeah, look, Minister, what can I say, you've gone through some very serious radical interventions into the cultural landscape. I'm not saying, there's this situation with Metelkova now, and then we're having a concussion in the media room, but how did you do it? You are doing this, unfortunately, without some really public debate, without real dialogue, let's say, in this case civil dialogue. And when you do such radical things, you can't do it the way you do it. For this there are, at least if we are to be in a democratic state, some rules, invite the expert to the debate, invite the affected to a debate and then co-form with them through a dialogue of a solution. And then I believe there's no tension and there's no problem. In this way you certainly will not achieve that graffiti will not be on walls that you obviously don't like, although some are quite artistic works, I must say, but you don't like it. But you will not eliminate the graffiti, even if you put a natural museum in there, people will continue to graph. You won't be able to stop it. They'll be even more graffiti if they're angry because things aren't going as well as they should be. In short, look, given all that we've been witnessing lately, these earthquakes or literally earthquakes in the cultural landscape in general, I think we should discuss these issues more widely in the National Assembly. I do not think that the limitation of the debate to the Committee on Culture is sufficient, so I propose that we hold this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Yuri Lep will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to John the Bricker King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u142	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues, nice greeting! In recent years, the State has helped individuals who first decided to take a separate business route to the aid with various benefits. The first steps are, of course, the hardest. From setting a business idea to implementation, we are often separated by a very financial obstacle, so any assistance is welcome. At the same time, this may be an additional reason for a person who hesitates before deciding on a separate business route. Such a decision is by no means simple, for it brings entirely new responsibilities and responsibilities. As a good example of aid to new companies, I can mention subsidies for first self-employment. In 2010, individuals received €4,000,500 of so-called start-up funds for a good business idea, a desire, a condition and an opportunity for self-employment. A similar situation took place in 2018, when this subsidy amounted to EUR 5 000. These funds, of course, are not only donated money, but an investment that is reimbursed through contributions or taxes paid by the new entrepreneur. Of course, the specific conditions to be met by the recipient were laid down for receiving the funds, including the fact that an individual would have to have an enterprise open for at least one year. New entrepreneurs can also receive other benefits at the opening of the first espionage. According to the ZPIZ-2, the exemption of part of the payment of contributions has already been granted within the first two years of the registration of espionage. During the first 12 months of operation, the payment of the insured’s contributions and employer’s contributions amounting to 50% of the amount of the contribution is thus exempted after the first entry into the business register or record. In the next 12 months, these persons shall be exempt from contributions from the insured person and from the employer's contribution of 30% of the amount of the contribution. It is also clear from past years that the use of subsidies and the exemption of part of contributions has not been excluded. I ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities: Would it be appropriate to include in the PKP6 or possibly in the following anti-korona laws such subsidies or start-up funds and, of course, additional benefits in the form of covering a higher part of contributions to new companies? Does the Ministry have a specific plan to further help start new and promising businesses in this crisis period, which would contribute to lower unemployment in the coming years and the economic recovery of our country after the epidemic? I'm asking for answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Lepi, thank you for this important issue regarding start-up funds and additional benefits in the form of covering up the higher part of contributions to new businesses. As you yourself have already stated, some benefits or incentives are already available in the current legislation. In addition to this possibility that all those independent entrepreneurs who are only at the start of their own business may benefit from the exemption from the payment of contributions to the pension and disability insurance scheme for the insured and the employer of 50 % of the amount of the contribution in the first 12 months of the operation, after the first entry into the business register or other register or record, and in the next 12 months these persons, i.e. those self-employed, are exempt from the contributions of the insured person and the employer of 30 % of the amount of the contribution. The exempt contributions under this heading shall cover the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In addition, self-employed insurers already have an option to reduce the insurance base to those insurers who assess that the insurance base does not correspond to the expected profit in the current year. These insurers may continue to pay contributions from the insurance base reduced by 20%, but at least from the insurance base of 60% of the average annual salary of employees in the Republic of Slovenia. So some of these incentives already exist. Of course, in order to provide assistance for the rapid start-up of new and promising companies, which, as we plan after the end of this epidemic and all the consequences of it, will help to speed up the decline in unemployment and speedy economic recovery. I would like to point out that the Ministry of Labour is not responsible for the allocation of start-up funds, but that content is within the competence of the Ministry of the Economy. From the point of view of the area of work, which concerns our department, and in view of the benefits in the form of covering a higher part of contributions to young businesses, I would like to stress that pension and disability insurance covering the entire working population is one of the social security schemes for which we are responsible and acts as a guarantee of the social rights of individuals in the event of age, disability and death. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act follows the principle of unifying all forms of work in such a way that all forms of work are burdened by contributions in the same way. Where an individual is thus provided with material and social security on the basis of the exercise of an activity, the contributions from this Title paid at the time of the active period and the periods of insurance shall be taken into account later in obtaining entitlements from pension and disability insurance. This is particularly so because it is very important that it is not later when the exercise of the right from the contributions paid, even some unpleasant surprises, as you know, are something that we are still eliminating and correcting today, when individuals or groups of people find in a similar situation that they do not have a right to the extent that they do. I may mention that in all the anti-korona packages we, of course, had in mind first the welfare, namely the protection of the health and life of people, and immediately after that also the preservation of jobs and also the preservation of the situation in the labour market, i.e. the prevention of an excessive influx of unemployment. For now, at least according to the data, we can say that this has worked well with the measures. Among these measures, there were quite a number of positive feedback from the economy, namely the universal core income that is now being reinstated, including the exemptions for contributions that are also covered by this amount of UTD in the PKP6 this time, or also in the PKP5, so that we are going in some way. Of course, there is always this call of yours to encourage young, new start-ups, which, of course, give particular impetus to these fragile ones, therefore [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u146	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. You've gone very wide, I'm very pleased with your answer. However, each of the social and economic issues is somehow linked, and we have also been giving local communities a start-up fund for self-employment last year, a few thousand euros, so these are two separate issues. But since we're all fighting for contributions and taxes, I've addressed you with a question. In this context, it might also be possible, given that there has been a speech that there were certain things in the PKP6 that are already clear, but others that have already been said by Mr Restovalšek to be calls, these are calls for tradesmen, entrepreneurs, for small entrepreneurs who have at least one employee. I know cases where there are two independent entrepreneurs in one house who have their own companies, and now that means they will not have any fixed costs covered, which I don't think is fair. I myself have been a craftsman in my history, and since 1990 I have used these funds for 70% to 30% within three years to pay contributions. Then in all the years that followed, our company regularly paid all contributions to employees and to our country. So from this point of view, I would say that in the second wave of the epidemic, we see much less removals of independent entrepreneurs from the business register than in the first wave. It is also more of a newly established company. Nevertheless, I believe that such encouraging assistance would be more than welcome for all who are thinking about opening up their new company or launching existing ones, which they simply had to stop. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Thank you, too, Mr President, for this addition. Of course, here we agree, we are together and here with our colleague Restoration from the Ministry of the Economy we have this responsibility and responsibility and awareness that we will make the best possible environment so that companies can move faster after the crisis, with less bureaucratic obstacles and less administration and greater incentives. One of the key issues, or the key responsibilities of my department, is that we are already worrying, and I also warn employers on a number of occasions publicly, including when we meet to make sure that employees are already employed in them, regardless of whether they are involved in any action, such as waiting for work or working hours, or whether they are not investing in their education, training, retraining, pre-qualification, skills, that they can be adequately trained, digitally literate even after the end of this crisis, and have responded appropriately with their teams to the new situation that the virus and already during the epidemic will surely arise. Here too, through active employment policy programmes, we pay particular attention to the unemployed so that they can return to the labour market as soon as possible. On the other hand, we also offer different programmes to businesses and encourage them to participate more in these available programmes for the education of their employees precisely because of these objectives, which I mentioned earlier. And the following programmes are key, perhaps even in this context, training and education programmes, i.e. training to strengthen skills, then training in specific jobs and labour trials, subsidisation programmes Employment me and sustainable youth employment. This is also one of your colleagues who has previously pointed out that we are helping young people to enter the labour market as soon as possible. And finally, continuing programmes for the most vulnerable, those who are long-term unemployed. So here we have quite a few tasks and responsibilities to do, and I think there is also no lack of answers and knowledge and determination.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Robert Pavšič will ask Minister for Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u150	Chairman, thank you very much. Good day to you all! Measures in anti-korona packages, but here I do not mean decisions explicitly, I will explain, I do not mean government decisions, but I do have an opinion on them, but this is not a question for you today, Minister. So the measures are sporadic, visionless, uncoordinated, inefficient, incomplete, arbitrary, and at times they could also be called discriminatory, and they could also be listed. And let's just remember, the anti-korona package has been fixed three times, at least three times. The anti-Corron package of two didn't actually come back to life. From the third to the fourth, we have actually considered simply extending the measures that have already been adopted and also corrected and are now in the sixth 40 revisions of Friday and you are already predicting the seventh package. Why am I saying this? Because a measure of so-called freezing of the coordination of the minimum wage was also announced for the first time for PKP6. Now, Minister, I am interested, given that we have learned from the media that this package will be dealt with or dealt with in the following anti-korona package: How much is the cost of living this year, which depends on this harmonisation of the minimum wage? What would be the effect of the marriage increase? I know you can't tell me the exact number, but we can round it up to ten euros. How many people in Slovenia actually receive a minimum wage or a lower salary? Which sectors would the most save by potentially freezing or delaying the implementation already provided for by law? Based on what data and research did you even consider or suggest freezing growth or harmonising minimum wage? Was this coordinated in the Economic and Social Council, given that you promised only employers the solutions in the PKP7?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u152	Thank you for the question, honourable Member Robert Pavšič. Honorable National Assembly! Thank you for asking me again. As we know, the Law on Minimum Wage, adopted by the National Assembly two years ago, provides for a gradual increase in minimum wage to the final level, which is due to happen on 1 January 2021. We adopted the law during the period of economic growth and prosperity. I didn't object to raising the minimum wage myself at the time. On the contrary, I have repeatedly made it clear that I wish that in Slovenia it would not be necessary to set minimum wages and that companies would be able to prove their competitiveness with other parameters rather than low labour costs. Today, when we have a minimum wage rise before us on a legal level, the situation in society and the economy is, of course, very different. I am listening to a number of calls from the economy to freeze the minimum wage, and I must say that I understand them in this area. The economic crisis, due to the consequences of the epidemic, will be great, despite the fact that the future development of the health crisis shows very unpredictable direction. The consequences will be felt by all countries, in particular those such as ours, who are highly export-oriented. We know how many companies are looking for a way out of the crisis by reducing costs. Unfortunately, this often also means moving production to low-price countries. Slovenia has taken a huge step forward in recent years in building its competitiveness on knowledge. But the fact is that an important part of our industry is still linked to supply chains of global brands that will look for cheaper suppliers as a result of the epidemic. We can debate this from several perspectives, but the threat of moving jobs from Slovenia to a much cheaper country remains below the line. From this point of view, now that we know that our recovery from the epidemic will depend heavily on how many people will keep their jobs, it is reasonable to consider temporarily freezing the definitive rise in the minimum wage. I am not inclined to do this because I would object to raising the minimum wage or because I would not acknowledge to those who receive it that they deserve it. Whoever wants to tell me something like that is wrong. I am inclined to do this because I am aware that in the next two, maybe three years in an important part of industry, difficult decisions will also have to be made. I would like one of these to avoid now and set up frameworks that will give employers slightly more room for manoeuvre to make decisions. And speaking of minimum wage, it is important to stress that Slovenia is already exceeding the European Union average for a minimum wage of 200 euros. According to the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the rise in minimum wage would result in a loss of at least 10,000 jobs in the coming year. Even though our country has invested considerable resources to help the economy and that we have managed to maintain more than 10,000 jobs in a timely and effective manner so far, the years ahead will require a great deal of effort to promote the economy and increase prosperity. That is why I call on all of you, as well as the House, to make responsible and comprehensive decisions on all the issues that will decide or determine our development in the coming years. At the Economic and Social Council, I have addressed this issue, which you are talking about, on both sides, to employers and employees, with a request to examine how we can solve the problem, because in the crisis we are in today, we need to find a solution for these 10,000 jobs. If in a normal situation we can endure this in some way, now, after the coronation, the loss of every job is difficult and it is priceless to keep everyone. I'm going to say it in concrete terms. If we do not find a solution and the solution is not only to freeze the implementation of this law, then the company with thousands of employees in eastern Slovenia will be relocated to another country. We will never replace this, but in any case we will have to finance these workers at the employment agency. The current crisis we are facing is not only a health crisis but also an economic one. And from how we know how to manage risk in the coming year, two will depend on how we live in the next decade. It is therefore necessary to take a responsible decision on all initiatives, including the freezing of the final wage increase, in dialogue with all the social partners and with a realistic view to the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Pavšič, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u154	I haven't said a word to you about any inclination towards any decision, but from the six questions I've given you, and in particular, you haven't answered any of them. What kind of raise would that be? Because if you decide to freeze something, then you need to know how much money it is. The media reports that this is about 30 euros. The Chamber of Commerce threatened with forgiveness when we adopted this law, and the SMC confirmed it, and it didn't happen. And there's something else we need to clear up. More than 10,000 jobs have been preserved by measures so far, you said. I hope it was a lapsus, because in January this year there were 895 thousand 400 employees in Slovenia and in August 882 thousand 100. If there's a difference of more than 10,000, then again on some verifiable facts you're completely pointlessly losing your credibility. I only specifically asked you: On what basis have you started thinking about freezing the coordination provided by law? Is this only at the invitation of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia or other employers? Because we have seen the reaction of unions or employees on the other hand, that it is far from being coordinated. Above all, this: How much money is it for, which industries would most save, and how much would they save? That's an essential question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u156	Your Honor, you are continuing with the practice of asking one question and here in the Chamber complement it with a completely different content. If you asked me all these questions like most other Members do, I could help you with most of the answers, but that's not the point. I replied to everything you asked me - based on the discussion. I did not start this discussion alone, but in the Economic and Social Council we have exchanged this difficult issue in a dialogue between both employers and employees, and we will do nothing without agreeing. However, I am responsible as Minister responsible for the economy to draw attention to the fact that we are about to lose a certain job that we could maintain. And once again, I will tell you that by measures from the CAP1 to the CAP6 we have kept most of the jobs and most of the businesses. For how to act and what delay means, we learned in the crisis 2008, 2009, when a company went bankrupt. And how we were successful, they're talking about numbers. Since the beginning of the coronal crisis, it has grown from less than 70, to over 90 thousand unemployed, and now the decline and stabilisation of some place over 80 thousand. And with further measures, we will endeavour to maintain jobs. Around the minimum wage, however, it is only once more that it is not a systemic and long-term obstruction of the development of a minimum wage, but that it is a matter of deeply believing that both sides, employers and employees will find a reasonable consensus that we will maintain jobs during this crisis period and that we will not politicise jobs on their backs. I am optimistic and I believe that we will find a solution, either in the direction of temporary extension or we will find another solution that will prevent us from moving such jobs from Slovenia to other countries on our noses. Because I care and care about every job, especially those where it is practically impossible to achieve such jobs quickly. Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the question once again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal to hold a discussion of the answers at the next meeting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u158	Well, first of all, call you, chairman. Mr Minister has accused me of violating the Rules of Procedure and of asking questions which are not on the subject that we are dealing with. Mr. Minister, I've only asked you about the basics. If you do not know how much this matter would actually have a nominal and percentage impact on the areas that the law is actually tanning, then we cannot even talk. And that's just another proof that you don't really know what you're talking about. Or those who prepare your answers do not do so as they should. If we're talking about minimum wage, of course, it's a question of how long would it go up if it went up. And that's basic information. And now, I don't know, in ten minutes -- okay, you've answered one question for me, and this is coordination with the Economic and Social Council. And I hope that it will really develop so that both sides will be pleased. But at least basic information when you come to the parliament, I don't know. [[…]] There is also a significant difference between the majority of the more than 10,000. You said more than 10 grand earlier, and now you're filling out the answer for the majority. Yes, you say you've kept them, I say you've frozen them, because some visions are not yet visible in the future, even though the seventh PKP law is already being prepared. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Mr President, I ask that the National Assembly decide to discuss this subject thoroughly in one of the future meetings. Of course, I'm not pretending to go through with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u159	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Meira Hot will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u160	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary! Unfortunately, the epidemic and its related restrictive measures to prevent its spread have also had a profound impact on our mental health. We fear to be infected with the Coronavirus, we fear that our loved ones will be infected. Restricted social contacts and movements cause loneliness, anxiety, difficulties, depression, anxiety. All restrictive measures and prohibitions leave consequences, as is evident also in many anonymous confessions that can be followed on social networks. It is also a sad fact that, because of bans or largely limited visits to hospitals, relatives of the sick face great and extraordinary pressures when they are unable to reach their loved ones when they cannot say good - bye to them. There remain feelings of emptiness, despair, sorrow. Pressures are certainly experienced by older, particularly vulnerable groups who have not been in contact with their loved ones for a long time and cannot reach them. Thus, data from the world shows that depression or depression increased mainly among the elderly at the time of the epidemic. It is also true that mental illness in our society is still stigmatized and that a number of psychiatric aids are experienced as something shameful or unnecessary. Mental, psychiatric patients are also too often pushed to the side of society, and mental awareness is particularly important. Experts have been warning for years that a comprehensive approach is needed in the field of mental health in Slovenia and that there is a need for systematic legal changes in mental health. The Ombudsman also draws attention to this in his reports. Last year, the Constitutional Court has also ruled that the Law on Mental Health is inconsistent with the Constitution and the warning, and I quote: “that the Government has already been instructed in the recommendation of the National Assembly to ensure, in addition to the preparation of the proposal for legislative amendments, adequate spatial capacity in social security institutions and sufficient staff who can provide adequate social protection services.” [[…]] Unfortunately, the decision of the Constitutional Court has not yet been implemented. It is also worrying that the latest data show that the mental health of young people in both Slovenia and the world is deteriorating. The rapid pace of life, the social network, new forms of technology unfortunately contribute to poor mental health, especially young people who are so much more psychologically and socially vulnerable. At the time of the epidemic, however, these addictions are likely to increase. Finally, we read in a new study of scientists, which showed potentially harmful effects of covid on the brain and mental state of patients. According to new developments within three months, one in five patients who have survived and survived covid-19 will have a diagnosed mental disorder. In short, it shows that it is really essential that this issue be taken systematically, with all seriousness, and that appropriate legislation is also drawn up. That's why I want to know: What are the concrete measures taken by the Ministry of Health in this context? Is there any study of how the epidemic affected the mental health of the Slovenians? Are changes to the Law on Mental Health being prepared?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u162	Thank you, Chairman. Thank you, Madam Ambassador, for the question. Once again, a nice hello to everyone! The fact is that this is a period of epidemics facing not just us, practically the whole world, where there are certain major effects or major consequences in the field of mental health not only of other diseases, where we have already talked about long waiting periods and so on. In fact, there are greater pressures for older people, with all the restrictions, as you mentioned, to visit nursing homes, where, contrary to the first wave, we have tried only to take a step forward and not only to ban them, but also, at least partly under certain conditions, to enable, of course also in agreement with the Ministry of Labour. It is very similar for hospitals, where, of course, children are, despite all exceptions, where they are allowed not in an unlimited number of visits and also in persons, but in spite of everything. The area of mental health is certainly one that has in some way been neglected not only at the time of the epidemic but, above all, in some way. You know that in 2018 a resolution was adopted as a basic strategic document for 10 years, which, of course, does not mean much and does not solve itself, but in particular commits to further steps in this area, which we, too, have been at the Ombudsman's side and we have discussed how far forward, at what speed, at what pace. Nevertheless, this resolution is a document which deals in an integrated way with the issue of mental health, from promotion, of course early treatment, treatment itself, rehabilitation, quality monitoring and so on, not least a network of operators that must surely be updated. In these current circumstances, we have drawn up an action plan that was expertly prepared and, of course, faster due to the consequences of the epidemic. I think that, nevertheless, one of the main elements in this action plan is assistance, particularly through this single number, where experts from different fields of mental health work. However, very different problems are being addressed. It is a purely basic emotional support for managing anxiety, fear and everything related to the co-vid, support for the sick and their relatives with appropriate guidance and guidance, including loss of loved ones, then support for the upbringing of children whom we know to be excluded from school education in the past period and where many problems arise, and not least from the partner crisis. There are reasons for such assistance, and there is really a lot to deal with. Of course, we don't have any fresh polls right now. This aid worked in the first place partly also in the spring through the NIJ, even now, and at the time one survey was carried out, of course all these callers were satisfied with such help, most of them, while some serious analysis of course did not work during this period. However, there is also experience from other countries, of course, that, for the first time, it is necessary for people to face other, different, new problems in the field of mental health and that, of course, this area is at least as serious as the area of somatic diseases. As far as the law itself is concerned - The Mental Health Act, which takes into account the findings of the Constitutional Court and also, of course, seeks to eliminate these non-compliances with the Constitution, is under public scrutiny by the end of the month. Then, after a public hearing, we will see what will be, what will be the starting points, and will go into the next adoption process.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u164	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to express my gratitude for the action plan and also for this psychological support phone, which I think is very important and I hope that our citizens and citizens will make the most of it, because this is some welcome help in these very difficult times and perhaps this loneliness that many people face and do not know who to turn to. So I think this is the right way. I also hope that legislation will be very fast on our tables, so that we can take a step forward here because we are truly lagging behind in the field of mental health, and this is absolutely, in my opinion, equivalent to any psychosomatic disorder, because the spirit is ultimately some basis for moving forward. But perhaps in the context of young people, I would touch the open letter of psychologists, which, if I am not mistaken, also you, Mr. Minister, where they have expressed in fact that more and more studies and documents show that children and adolescents, especially in these times of epidemics, can be extremely exposed to mental disorders, exposed to feelings of loneliness, concern, symptoms of anxiety, depression, specific fears, related to health, death, economic status. In particular, they point out that particularly vulnerable groups should be addressed, i.e. children who are living in poverty because of lack of basic living conditions and conditions. These were reported by the SURS before the epidemic was over 45 000. Risk factors usually add up in them, so the importance of kindergartens and schools as a protective factor is even greater in them than in their peers. Hence, they state that some of the school, school, or university visits would have contributed greatly to the mitigation of the long - term consequences that these children and adolescents will have for years. Are you familiar with this open letter? How do you respond to these allegations? Do we have any measures that will really touch children and adolescents and how they will deal with this after the epidemic because they are likely to have consequences for a number of years, because secondary socialization is being lost at this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u166	With regard to concrete measures in the field of these young people and all of these, I do not really have the right data. I know the groups are working. In what way and what is envisaged, I don't really know. Perhaps so much that when we have taken and when we do these measures, we are really aware of these problems, which psychologists have been talking about almost daily, what such isolation means for school children, including preschool children. I think that this period will be now, when we are really going to try not to interfere with the protection of children and of education, at least small children, because it is necessary to know that there was no other choice when seeking a balance between measures and the current situation, which is still, and it was even more worrying. Because, for the first time, age structures are also educational and, secondly, also due to the excessive spread of infections among children themselves, which was probably due to summer holidays and border crossings. I hope that now, with what we have done and prepared, we will be able to manage, and above all that there will be no need to interfere with these restrictions in this most vulnerable group. I agree, I do. But I will also see what more can be done for these most important members, if I may say so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u167	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u168	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. In October, two very disturbing calls for help were made to Slovenia. They came from two hospitals, a bird hospital, and a hospital called Nova Gorica. But that's the way it is. At the General Hospital of Dr. Franc Derganca in Nova Gorica recently, the end of October said, economists from the region asked for financial assistance in the context of the ability to purchase urgently needed medical devices, which the hospital needs to hear, for the treatment of covid-19 patients. And that seems to me, when such a call for help appears, it seems unacceptable to me at this time that anything like this comes to pass. So the hospital has to do its own thing, I'm going to say, fist or arm trying to get financial help from the local environment so that it can even save lives infected with covid-19 virus. Secondly, an action was also launched at the bird hospital, which we all attended and helped to the best of our ability, when the Director also called the general public, if they can help with drinks and drinks, because they simply do not have the money to afford regular drinking water. And we were horrified, I have to admit, everyone. But since Ptuj is really a solidarity town and the Slovenians are solidarity people, of course we stepped together and gathered what they needed and, of course, took us to the hospital. Now I'm interested in the following: How could it be that during the biggest health crisis, according to these coronary conflicts, some hospitals do not even have basic medical equipment for the smooth implementation of the work process, even when it comes to patients with covid-19? How can it be that, at the time the current government spends 780 million dollars on weapons, some hospitals, such as a bird hospital, cannot even provide basic goods for its employees, drinking water? And then I ask myself a personal question, too, because then we can all rightly ask ourselves how it is in hospitals providing meals and drinks for patients. If some of their health - care professionals are unable to care for or have no financial means to care for their staff. Then the next thing, which, I think, also messed up Slovenia, was this thing with these Sirusis MED fans, which just after one hour of operation broke down in UKC Maribor. And what happened again? Again, UKC Maribor went to purchase some of its new fans to help or also treat some normal covid-19 patients. Unacceptable again. I am asked what is actually going on in the government and what is going on in the Ministry of Health, where there are such anomalies or cases as I have now listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u170	Thank you, Vice President. Thank you for asking. The information you gave, I must say, surprises me. In fact, you yourself as a Member have seen that a number of measures have also been taken to financially stabilise hospitals. Last time, however, the hospitals had virtually all the previous years, even last year, a lot of the financial problems that we have solved with measures this year, especially financial ones. Why they were in such a state is probably too broad a debate for this answer. The fact is that there was one important reason in the wage imbalances, it is said in wages that the Institute of Health Insurance did not recognise at the prices of the services, and we have also abolished this year in order to facilitate their business. Next thing. We've provided them with all the necessary means to get all the equipment that's tied to the cobbler. We have provided 80% of the unrealised programme if this is due to the consequences of the epidemic and the failure to implement the other programmes. In the middle of the year, we distributed programmes in annex 1, distributed an additional 86 million. We have only earmarked for the purchase of medical equipment, I think 20 million for protective funds, 20 million for REACT-EU, and 50 million were passed in the law on the implementation of the budget for the refund of everything related to covid. Thus, from this title, it is argued that hospitals do not have enough money to operate and acquire basic things, simply cannot hold and hold. And even the data we get from the Ministry doesn't show it. At this point, for the first time since 1 June, hospitals are obliged to supply equipment themselves, given that they have the funds provided for in the price of health services and are already mentioned in the budget and in the European funds. So they can't be harmed from this address. On the other hand, at this point, after the reports we have, the hospitals had to provide their own one-month stock, if they could not, we have reopened the possibility of getting it from the stock reserves. So far, only one hospital has asked for help from this address. So far, there's no one else. Everything relating to medical equipment is intended for the refund of all the costs with the money provided that I have mentioned. Of course, hospitals have to put out bills, they've got something, they'll get something by the end of the year. But it is difficult to solve all the liquidity problems that hospitals have had for many years, given that they have outstanding obligations for, I don't know, about 60 million, I think, from previous years. And this is a little bit more difficult at the moment, and of course, we're looking for a solution here as well. If an individual hospital decides to purchase medical equipment, this is, of course, a matter of its decision at the moment and of the world of the institution and their accepted documents which enable and provide them. And if this is going to be related to the co-vido, and excuseably, of course, but mainly related to the co-vido, then it's money to make it up to them. I certainly don't see any need for gathering, I don't know, goods, especially food or anything like that. Above all, I see the initiative of some citizens to do something or recognize their importance and efforts for healthcare professionals. But not really for us not to be able to finance ourselves from this title. Clearly, you have completely different information from what the performers send to us and for which we are currently negotiating what they need and what we will do.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u172	Thank you for your words, thank you for your answers. And yet I'm curious: Did these institutions, which I mentioned earlier, first contact you with the Ministry for assistance before they called on the economy and the people? With regard to this call, which was also published in the media and then, I will say, repeatedly debated or debated. There is no debate about solidarity. When it is necessary to help people who are really in the first battle lines – now that this is about covid-19, we will always jump to help and help no matter what it takes and how much it takes to give. I'm saying the only problem is that these were public calls, which were also made public and I can bring them to you or show them to you anyway. That's what got people wrong the most. Because when it comes to solving this crisis, I think we have to invest all the resources that are possible in solving this covid-19 crisis. I am also interested in something because workers or nurses have turned, as well as technical personnel who work after hospitals in Slovenia, after DSOs and other different health care homes, about this debate on public transport. Maybe you've already learned something from the media. In fact, they were appalled at how it could have been shut down again in the second lockdown of public transport, given that in Austria it functioned normally in Germany. In fact, it works normally because they want the job access chain not to be interrupted or disabled. And then there's a lot more workers available, this professional staff, just because of public transport. Because then I don't understand why six nurses have to drive together in a car, I don't know, in the UKC, and each one of these six nurses works in his own department. From this point of view, I think it is also medically controversial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u174	Look, now it's like this. Hospitals or public health establishments in general are in fact exposed to abnormal, extraordinary burdens during this epidemic. If, on the one hand, as I said earlier, there should not be a problem of providing funds because we have provided them, not protective equipment, not medicines, but on the other hand, there is a major problem that has been going on for many years now. This is linked to human resources within the healthcare system. In addition, as in other activities, a large number of infections among health workers make our work more difficult. In the last two weeks alone, I think there's about a thousand 800 of them, which is a reflection of the large prevalence of infection within the population, I don't know, every 22 of them or who's infected. As far as I am concerned, the main concern is the provision of personnel, and much more of the staff, who must have certain special skills to be prepared. Of course, certain educations have been carried out to train them, but it is true that this is not the case, health care is not an area where, with rapid courses, people can be redeployed to the required places. However, we have tried to give these employees the opportunity to move from certain jobs to the possibilities that exist within the country, including specialists, trainees in the areas of health care and in the field of doctors, pending the redeployment of employees. The regulation has already been signed, the basis has been given to the PKP, in order to really try to relieve certain jobs where the burdens and difficulties of providing staff are far-reaching. But the question is how real it is, to what extent can you involve someone who is not sufficiently trained and familiar with work in these work processes. And that's because of the problems that we've been talking about for years, it's really hard. Maybe a comparison. In the previous period, without co-vids, we had, I think, about 157 beds in intensive units, half less than Austria, now we've got them busy, I think 220 or something today, around, some kind of number. And you can believe that this also causes great distress among healthcare professionals. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your time is up. Mr. Members, do you have a procedural proposal? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u176	On this subject, covidu-19, as well as all the problems that I will say open daily, or are like some rakrane, unfortunately, I think we need to have a broader debate on these matters in this national assembly, as well as with the Minister of Health. Because people expect clear answers, professional answers, professional explanations set out to them, including those you have now interpreted to me personally or to other listeners or Members. I propose that a broader debate be held on this subject. This morning, however, information also came that there are some discriminations in the data being sent forward to the EU regarding, unfortunately, the deaths of covida-19. I wish there weren't any more, but I'm afraid they will. We know there's quite a difference. For example, if all the data were to be taken in the right way or also collected – because also global companies that collect data about the dead and sick with regard to the covid-19 virus have warned us that the data coming from the NIJ do not contain all data on the dead, they only contain data about the dead from hospitals, but they do not contain data about the dead from the DSOs. So I think some things will have to be cleared up here, too, or discussed. Unfortunately, this is the spirit of time, the Zeitgeist we are experiencing, this covid-19, I hope that this epidemic will end as soon as possible. I say, we have to have a debate on this subject, and I also think that the Government has unfortunately missed the right time in the second wave, that perhaps not even the second lockdown, or the social, economic and economic crisis, or the biggest health crisis. Let's have a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on now. Mrs Jerca Korče will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities for Mr Janez Cigler King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u178	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Good-bye, distinguished minister! Today we're going to get out of this town, I'm going to say unfortunately, come back in May 2020, when I asked you a question from this same place about the first wave. In fact, we were in the phase when the first wave ended and we all found with concern that homes for older citizens were those hotspots that had escaped our control to some extent, and we left the most vulnerable there somehow left to ourselves. Your conclusion at the time was that you were successful in the first wave because 90% of the home did not go into or break into the virus. That was your grade. Today, we can see from this place together that this relationship is quite the opposite. In more than 85% of our homes, we have a virus, the virus has broken into almost, and we're going to say 90%. So this relationship is reversed. That's when I asked you if you felt responsible for what was happening in the first wave when the most vulnerable were left to themselves. You said no, and you came from just this success. So today I ask you again: How do you rate your performance by the numbers on the table today? And that's that obviously from the first wave to the second wave wasn't done enough. More. At that time, I somehow called upon you, or I appealed to you, to prepare all protocols, action plans, measures to be prepared at the second wave as quickly as possible. That's when you said we were talking about a possible second wave. You seem to have taken this word too seriously, and in the meantime you haven't done it for months – this is my assessment, of course you will say something else in your reply – almost nothing. But the facts, the numbers show what I'm telling you right now. I also want to know: What have you done in the meantime to prepare homes for the elderly? Today, we see that the only thing they have is that workers and workers there are extremely self-sacrificing and loving. However, the fact that they manage the situation to a certain extent with their expertise is no excuse for policy not to say that it was its responsibility to prepare them differently and to take action. I'm also curious: Why didn't you find any suitable locations for isolation, which you were warned about in June? Why didn't you decide to take a quick test and do a lot more? What has been done, or better said, do you feel part of your responsibility for all that has not been done? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, distinguished Ambassador Jerz Korča, for this question. Let me first say that I have never avoided responsibility for the department and everything that is happening within my department, and I intend to continue to do so. So, I'm responsible for everything that's going on in my department, and that's how my approach is always, both official and private. Another time. If I agreed to your claim that the most vulnerable were left to themselves, then I would deny all self-sacrifice and all efforts by employees in all social security institutions throughout Slovenia, including nursing homes that offer the highest possible level of care for the elderly and others in the social protection institutions. So if you ask me if the elderly and other vulnerable groups in their homes for the elderly and other welfare institutions are provided with an adequate, best possible level of care, the answer is yes. Since the start of the new government's mandate, the Ministry's actions, which I run, and the executive organisations, were the homes and other institutions, to curb the new coronavirus. The first wave of covida-19 epidemic has certainly exposed long-standing, more than ten-year problems with the personnel and premises in the homes. Since the first day of our mandate, we have been responding to the urgent needs of these institutions, whether in the field of human and spatial affairs or in particular, at the Ministry of Labour. As you said, in the first wave, infection with the new coronavirus was fought back to 90% of the home. Where infections spread, however, this was associated with a poor local epidemiological picture. Remember the difficult stories of Šmar near Jelšah, remember Ljutomer and perhaps others, for example in the interim time of Hrastnik. Thus, in the first wave, this was associated with a poor local epidemiological picture. In the second wave, the epidemiological picture in the country is such – and even more so in Europe, we are not isolated from the island – that it also affects the presence of the virus in nursing homes. However, all responsible teams in this regard have matters that are difficult, are difficult, are difficult, under control and follow the protocols and rules we have drawn up in the meantime on the basis of experience from the first wave. If I mention just a few. It is about providing sufficient quantities of personal protective equipment, providing opportunities for education or training for its proper use, preparing homes to prepare crisis plans for handling in cases of home infection, creating protocols with a description of procedures and recommendations and guidelines for the implementation of measures. Let me mention that one of the more successful measures in these protocols – including the profession, including the social welfare institutions with which we are in constant contact, including with the community of social institutions – has responded positively – to the withdrawal of the first infected positive residents from home for a maximum of 72 hours in order to prepare the home of staff, organisationally to control and stop the infection.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Mrs. Korce, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u182	We agree here that the employees are those who are solving the situation, but neither of us can hide behind the cover of the heart and the sacrifice of the employees who are saving what they are saving and doing their work and their mission. On the other hand, we do have a policy. We, Minister, are a policy and a policy task is to do everything in its power in the meantime to prepare things for this stage, so that homes will have the opportunity not to get what we are witnessing today, and that is that we have an infection in 90% of our homes. Today, I do not want politicization on numbers about how many victims and how much fate such behavior or inequality leaves behind. And let's keep going so we don't look back in a few months. What are we gonna do today? We know, let's say the vaccine comes, we're waiting for that phase to happen, when we're sufficiently stricken, so we can follow a few more waves in nursing homes. For example, we have the case of Germany and Austria, where they decided already in September to use rapid antigen tests to test employees, caregivers. Moreover, in this way suppliers may also have contact with their relatives because of these measures. However, this was the task of policy to take action and to tell home how to act. So I also understand that we are not a lonely island, but we, once again, have adopted that this government will obviously react to 25% of the country's infections and not 5%. It's just that you failed, but I'm interested – let's look into the future, so we won't be sitting at the same location for five, six months and talking about the same things – what you're doing, I'll say, today for the third, fourth wave or the next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u184	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Madam Member, for the additional, complementary question. I really take your question as - what would you say? – expressing great concern for the elderly, and we are here together. So, I understand this forum as one of the possible forums that we are looking for a way forward together, and above all to protect the most vulnerable. This is also our duty, and that is how I perceive my work. Allow me to respond to this second part of you and to continue with what we have prepared and what we are also doing to make homes better prepared for the future and that they will be able to stop the spread of the virus better by now. In the anti-korona package 4 we have provided 26 million for additional personnel only in nursing homes. We have also provided additional human resources support through the temporary deployment of employees where there is an increased workload due to covida-19. Cooperation with health students with civil protection has been strengthened. The aid was also offered by a number of students and pensioners who spent almost 30,000 hours together. This €26 million will be sufficient for 550 additional jobs only in nursing homes. This means that their human resources support will not be financially transferred to suppliers and their relatives. Human resources standards are collectively defined standards and can therefore be expressed as an unloving consequence of price increases. With PKP4, we wanted to prevent this. I can say that, on the basis of these provisions, we have already engaged, that is to say, more than 300 jobs, and here we have extremely positive responses at home for the elderly and other welfare institutions, 136 through public works. I'm sorry about the previous 30 thousand, 39 thousand hours. The students have already run out. We have provided an additional payment to the red zone employees. This is a 30% allowance, and a 20% allowance to shifted workers to the hourly item. In addition, in the PKP6 we have now ensured that this 30% supplement to work in red grey zones will not be excluded by the addition under the collective agreement. So, like you said, we do what we can, in cooperation with the expert and with all stakeholders.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u186	I apologize to you, Minister, for not taking your word for it, because there were roughly the same words as how well you were doing, heard from your mouth 25. 5. when we were here in the same situation. And that's when your answer calmed me down. Of course, a man takes the minister's answer and says he'll prepare. Today, we are sitting here with numbers, for which I am not you, I believe, we have no words of what we have done in the homes for older citizens and how we have not been able to prepare them for the second wave in all these months and how you have failed here. That's why those words of yours, when you talk about the future, sound tricky to me. It's about millions, about new personnel, but we're talking here about the providers who are daily, the daily black statistics are recorded, the ones that the state should take care of as the first not to get there. That's why we warned you on purpose in May, prepare things for the second wave, and you didn't do it. Nevertheless, I am making a procedural proposal from this place to discuss how we will proceed in the future. Because if anything, I'm really worried about how, when the vaccine comes, when we start the vaccine, but we know that what I'm going to say is that the population is being transplanted to a reasonable degree, it takes some time, but this virus will still be present between us. And I do not hope to predict what the statistics will be like when the government does or does not do better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Next up is Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. She's gonna ask the Justice Minister a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! It's not some new thing I'm going to talk about, but it's been going on for a while. It's like building a women's prison on Ig on Grajski hill. Years ago, the Ministry decided to make a larger prison there, depending on the number of prisons and so on, and drafted a proposal estimated at EUR 46 million, which is a large amount, and now, after all these procedures, it has already obtained a building permit, which is now the basis of archaeological excavations. Archaeologists are at a time when they have to dig up an important part because in the part where the pre - Roman building was located, we intend to work in prison, meaning that these findings or the rest of the houses, the foundations of the houses and so on, would be destroyed. First of all, I want to know: Does the assessment of the cost of building a woman's prison on Iga still remain, given that it was agreed to reduce costs, and given the abnormal number that was too large even for the then government, not just now? Where are we actually financially now? Is it still optimal or does data on the number of prisons show that we really need a prison for 140 prisons? As far as I know, we haven't even reached 100 for quite some time, only 140, but we're planning to build a prison for 140. I also want to know: What is the cost and also the dynamics of how things are going to go, given that this is the moment of excavations that are not yet completed? I don't know if you're going to extend their time or not. I think they have to finish by the end of November, but given the surprise and rich archaeological site, it's probably almost unrealistic to expect to complete everything within this time frame. So I want to know what's going on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u190	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mrs Jeraeva, thank you for your questions. True, this story has been going on for many years. This project has been going on for about 10 years now, for the decision to take place – as you know, in 2016 started with a project assignment and in 2018, this location was placed in the very space with the municipal spatial act. In this prison it is currently a matter of conditions that do not allow re-socialisation, which we are also reminded of by the international institutions, and finally we are also advocate of the principle of equality, which has issued a decision to violate or discriminate against other institutions. In fact, there are no certain conditions, such as a place for children, such as a place to visit, such as a place to wrap children, such as a place to sleep with a partner. Undoubtedly, this investment is justified. Of course, then, it is a matter of appropriate location. I know there have been a lot of questions on this subject, but there are also all the reasons why the location where it is located is justified. The cost, as you stated, was originally estimated at 46 million, and this value was then also reduced by 20% due to the initiative of the National Assembly, so the current value is 35.8 million. Let me say that it has been used so far, and at the end of the year we will already spend 2.2 million on this investment. As for capacity, i.e. 140 people, as you state. Indeed, there are not 100 people at the moment, but we need to know that the operation of an institution is optimal when it employs 80 per cent. A slightly higher number is then foreseen from this heading. Even if we look at the current situation, if we see the situation in which we are in, in other institutions, as well as in these institutions, we use other measures, so that we do not have such filled spaces due to the isolation and isolation of people. From this title, the study also showed that this number, the size of 140 persons, is appropriate. About the dynamics of where we are right now. As you mentioned, we obtained a building permit at the beginning of November, archeological excavations are in the final phase, I have seen it myself, and as you say, it is extremely extensive and also extremely important. I think it is with this investment that we have discovered prehistoric sites from the Roman era, which can also be later, at least so the agreement with the local community has remained open to the public. So I think that this investment has come across a situation, a cultural heritage that we can document and give to others. At the same time with the acquisition, it is said by the execution of these archaeological works, there is also the execution of a public contract, we are preparing documentation for the execution of construction works, and we are also preparing documentation for the execution, so that the new construction begins, the first phase, in 2022, and then in 2023 we will make the adaptation of the castle envisaged. It is possible that the castle will also be seen in a certain part, depending on how it will then take place, and is expected to be accommodated in 2022. Let me say that we are currently following this dynamic, we are within these deadlines, so I believe that we will also be able to continue to carry on in these deadlines.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u192	Thank you for saying that. I want to know: Are we going to finance all of this from the budget, or is it possible, for example, for the castle to receive some European funds, I don't know, energy renewal of buildings and the like? I still want to, given what's been discovered, now it's just over there that it's going to be this embedded part, which means that we're going to be seriously interfering with these findings or remains, and I don't know if it's acceptable that then it's going to be built in this area. [[…]] Because that makes it more expensive, because it's actually all buried in the ground and so on. By doing so, we will absolutely damage all the things that have been found. I've been kind of leaning towards this all along, and I've suggested that we think about whether we could use the lower part to do that, so that when a new man goes to prison in Dobrunje and goes to the open section there, at this point the open section for men is done by this new facility. I think it'd be a lot cheaper, too. The problem with Igu prison is that we probably don't have the Izans anymore, because we've gotten used to the prison being there, and I don't think there would be any problems with that. After all, the Municipality of Ig is on the Unesca list because of the nomads, and that we have a prison in the castle is crazy. In Slovenia we have everything in the castles, even the homes of the elderly and so on, but I think we should make some smart thinking in this sense and perhaps look for one more optimal location, which, I am sure, would also be significantly cheaper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u194	Thank you. So how it's financed. The funding is foreseen in the funding budget and we have also applied to the Recovery Fund and there is no decision here whether it will be possible to finance from these funds. However, it is important that the Government also recognised this project as a strategic project and classified it as a strategic project, making it possible to obtain all permits more quickly. Yes, I can agree with you, Mrs Jeraeva, that there is a castle, that it may be a shame that there is a prison there. On the other hand, this decision has been taken, and the local community has agreed, and in view of the very socialisation and the environment in which it is located, for these people – although sometimes we say that we are building a hotel for them – it is extremely important because self-sustainment is also possible, energy efficiency will be in that area, and additional walks for prisoners are possible. So, from the point of view of them, as well as from the point of view of the local community, which has always had an understanding and accepted that this location is there and that this activity is being carried out there, it was decided that it is appropriate to do so. About the archaeological excavations themselves. I've seen it. There's a great deal of heritage in this land. The archaeologists themselves said that they would smother it, of course because of the planned investment, but it is important that they document it, they will also take all the sample items on which they will then be able to do research and document it. We talked, and the local community also has a plan to then make a path around all these objects, on the basis of which we could familiarize ourselves with all the heritage that is there, so that added value for the local community itself would also be this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Marko Bandelli will ask the Minister without a director responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Mr Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! As we know, the fundamental objective of cohesion policy is to reduce the differences in development between EU Member States and to strive for economic and social cohesion. Within Slovenia, too, there are significant differences in the level of development between areas, so drawing on European funds is an extremely important financial resource, through which we carry out projects and realize the development goals of our country. The latest report by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Development and European Cohesion Policy shows that Slovenia has managed to absorb 44% of the funds that we owe to the existing financial perspective by 30 September this year. I want to know: Does it bear in mind that by 30 September this year, Slovenia was able to absorb 44% of the funds we have in the current financial perspective, or does the ministry already have a newer one? How will you ensure a higher percentage of the resources spent in the current programming period? What is the strategy of the Ministry that you are now leading? Thank you for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u198	Thank you very much to Member Mark Bandellli of the political group of Alenka Bratušek, I am pleased with this question, because there was some concern about whether we will be successful or not in drawing funds from the existing financial perspective. I can cheer him up and say that the decisions taken in recent months have been such that Slovenia will draw all or more of the funds available during this period. Until now, of course, the situation has changed, after 30. 9. In this month and a half, additional decisions on support have been signed. Today I signed one of the major, 50 million euros from the Cohesion Fund for the reconstruction of the Karavanka tunnel on the mountain railway track. So now the total number of funds allocated is already EUR 3 billion 190 million, which means that this is about 4% more than Slovenia has available funds during this programming period. You know we have 3 billion 67 million from this title. It is true, however, that the decisions on support vary from fund to fund. The maximum percentage of commitment is recorded in the European Social Fund, where overcommittee is already at a level of plus 18%, 118% of the available resources are committed, some small residue is still in line with regional development, but this backlog will be closed by the end of the year and something similar is also in the Cohesion Fund. In the implementation of the financial perspectives, you know that more and more decisions are being made on support than is available, because it is necessary to come from a security guard, it has never happened before, that all 100 % of it has been exhausted. This fuse is somewhere between 3% and 7%, and this is where we work. So I can answer yes, the numbers have changed. Slovenia is committed to virtually all the funds from the current financial perspective and by the end of the year around 50% of the available resources will be spent. More than that back-up data, which talk about the back-up situation – you know that pumping over the years was worse because this perspective started only two years after adoption, but only in 2016 were the first payments, and also from the water supply projects that were part of the overcommitment of the previous financial perspective – it is necessary to prepare for further development. You know that we have around €330 million available under REACT, and you are also aware that the adoption of formal bases for the use of these funds does not run as originally planned when formal bases at the level of the European Union were to be adopted by the end of this year. It now appears that these formal bases will be adopted somewhere in the first quarter of next year. In view of the need to draw up these funds up to 31. 12. 2023, and in view of the fact that funds that are primarily important for the strengthening of health systems, to which we allocate more than € 140 million of these funds, are intended to promote the economy and social care, we will make preparations to draw on these funds in a way that allows us to make decisions with deferral conditions, which means that we will prepare in a formal sense everything that these funds can be used for projects that can be implemented as soon as the formal basis is met. With regard to equitable development, let me say that, of course, there is still a difference not only between East and West, but also within individual regions, including in the Western cohesion region, which is significantly more developed than East, we have areas that are behind. Given that a smaller percentage of the funds will be received in the next perspective, it was decided that this difference would be strengthened through the national envelope. Therefore, if I simplify, it has been decided that areas with similar development indicators must be in an equal position to access development resources regardless of what European rules say about it. Of course, it would have been easier if in the past four years it had been decided that the central part of Slovenia that raises these indicators would have been defined as the third region at NUTS level 2. This would also allow the rest of Western Slovenia, which is unfortunately now falling under these better indicators, to draw on or co-finance at least 55%, not 40%, as now, or even as in the eastern region, 85%.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u200	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Minister. I expected you to respond in this way, but this answer – well, half mathematical, half political, but I would like to stress to you that cohesion policy is the only one, we can say for the time being, a development policy aimed at fostering growth, ensuring equal opportunities, reducing economic and social differences. That's what we have to watch out for now. How you will do what you now say – that you will allow additional resources elsewhere – is of great interest to me too. Look, I'm just gonna remind you of one thing. When we took over the catastrophic situation last year, the year before, we inherited it, we came at 32% from 14%, we fixed the whole system, and we started to pump very strongly. You said you'd make it to the end of the year by 50%. You have also boasted that you have signed some decisions on support, but the decision on support is far from pumping. You yourself know what a decision on support means and what concrete projects mean to begin with. It is said that if you are talking about this support today, it is still very far from the realization of these projects. And we know that now we have three years to cash them, if we say that we have to practically complete them by 2023. That's why I'm interested. I'm asking you one more time. With what concrete measures will you increase this percentage of drawing, how, in a concrete way, will the Minister? Tell me exactly how you're going to do this. Not what it is or what it is – how, literally. That people can see that they understand that it's important. Even if you have big projects in mind. I know there was a speech and you were preparing for Kanin. I want to know, people, people, Slovenia wants to know what's wrong with Kanin. We want to know what it is. I support that, but if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u202	Let me comfort you once again, Ambassador Bandelli, that your concern is overstated. I will tell you on a practical case of how things were carried out when this department was led by Alenka Bratušek, and how they are happening now, from March 12th. On one particular case. An agreement was signed for the development of the regions in 2017, and one project was implemented under this agreement from 62 projects to March of the month. One project. This is an environmental project for sewerage and water supply. From March 12th to today, 14 projects, 16, two plumbing and 14 sewers, were carried out. So, that's how we're gonna do it. So that within this time frame that we have left at our disposal, we will draw all the funds, as I told you. But you were also a minister yourself, 61 days, according to my information here, and you know very well what is under the authority of the managing authority. The managing authority has no jurisdiction over the operators, since none of the operators signs contracts, this is a matter of intermediate bodies and others. And there are control mechanisms and incentive mechanisms that can allow these funds to be drawn up more quickly, and as you can see from this case of agreement for the development of the regions, after this period of 12. 3. they're pumping faster. And the numbers tell us theirs. I don't think it's necessary to discuss it, but it's because you already want it. The party Alenka Bratušek led 491 days, of which 61 days, two ministers, two ministers were signed for 526 million decisions of support during this period. During my period, 466 million decisions on support were signed within 248 days. So if we go to mathematics, in this period of yours there should be twice as many decisions on support, that's for 931 million, and they were signed for just over 500 million. So these numbers talk about speeding things up, they're not yet in full swing, even because of the situation we're in, but they're moving much faster than they did in the past. And I'll tell you again, don't worry, no euro will remain unsupplied. What is most important and which has not been given sufficient attention in the past is that these Euros will not go for the wrong projects and operations. This is, in my view, a greater and more substantial concern, on which we are also working and we want the resources available in the future to be not only fully spent and used, but also used for the right purposes. For this reason, I said that the emphasis on those systems that have been fed in the past, already under REACT, we are planning substantial investments in health systems, over 140 million euros, over 200 million euros under the Recovery Fund, both the Infectious Clinic, both in Maribor and in Ljubljana, rehabilitation of many hospitals and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr Bandelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, you haven't answered me at all whether there's a bigger project in the realisation phase, you haven't even answered me what's going on with Kanin, which is a lot of talk. Just to remind you, I haven't been 61 days, but I've been three months, because there's no difference, but I care so much about clarity, because I had to do the work in progress. But you know, I'm thinking another thing here. You boast that you will draw to do what you have done in this time period, what you have not done — for you have been there for nine months, uninterrupted. You've been there nine months. Nine months. That is to say, you know what you've done -- I must say, thankfully -- you've been bragging about what you're going to do by the end of the year, 50% by the end of the year, according to our data, that it's been pumped 44% to date, that's true, that's to say, you've pumped less, proportionally stronger than what we've done. Even if you've been bragging about 14 projects, we've got one, but it doesn't matter either. And from this title, because we are also interested in personal: how much of Brussels money was paid to Slovenia during this programming period? We never talk about that. How much money has come back from Brussels to Slovenia? Therefore, it is precisely for this reason that we propose to take a decision, under the second paragraph of Article 246, that we propose a general debate in the future. And that you will respond directly to this, even on this current data, I hope that you will come up with a little bit more concrete information, not just with philosophy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u205	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. Just to explain to all the ministers. Mr. Blackach, this is now flying at you. I am here to make sure that the meeting is held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and please do not disturb us with your comments. Mr Bandelli gave a very correct explanation of his procedural proposal. Please hold back in the future. We're moving on. Mr Jože Lenart will ask Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u206	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. With the increasingly difficult situation we are in, you, the distinguished Minister of Gantar, I am somehow questioning today's question, but it is necessary to get some of the answers that arise when we act or do not act. Of course, health workers also expect answers, and that is why I am asking these questions today. See, exactly the same as the daily data on covido-19 infected and the number of hospitalized reflects the reality facing hospitals, reflecting their call for help. In addition to beds, they are chronically lacking in personnel trained, of course, to work with covid patients. Infected or quarantined by absent doctors, nurses and other staff is increasing, establishments are on the verge of capacity, if not already over the edge. I know that hospitals help each other to a certain extent, I know that employees are doing everything they can, I thank them from this city, but I don't understand your actions or the government's actions to regulate and limit everything. I repeat, with the decrees. By decrees it imposes mandatory use of outdoor masks, by decree restricts public transport and closes most trades, by decree introduces a curfew, by decree first closes the regions and then the municipalities. Then, by decree, he opens jewelry and pedicure salons and so on. There was a lot of that, and there was more. In short, the government with the decrees is making every day. I'm asking you: Why is the government not as determined as it is when making decisions when it comes to strengthening the deciduous human resources in health care, of course you are leading? Why don't you have the power to do that in this area? Why, for example, does the Government not activate private physicians and concessionaries to help staff in hospitals and nursing homes to care for patients with covido-19? PKP4 has also prepared money to reduce waiting lines for private people. Now that public health care needs their help more than ever before, the government does not take the appropriate action, calls neither privates nor concessionaires, but leaves these calls to the hospitals themselves, who so much so ask for their help, without having an effect, for nothing. However, we have been a witness to the proposal, or voluntary, that even health workers who are infected and who are still able to work in the red zone should work. Dear Minister, I ask you for an answer, even as if you were in charge of the medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you for asking. The human resources problem is certainly one of the most difficult to deal with in the face of this crisis. It has been present to a large extent before and, of course, is now well-potential in these circumstances. This is very similar in all countries. On the one hand, it is possible to provide hospital beds, including equipment, including medicines, and this does not present a particular problem in our country at this time, while, as you yourself find, ensuring a sufficient number of employees without a doubt. We have had fewer health workers before this period, we have fewer of them, especially doctors, a slightly better number in health care, although there are also restrictions on the fact that the work of middle- and graduate nurses has recently been delimited and the distribution of competences, which can also present a significant obstacle in this part to the distribution of all these workers. In addition, people are also leaving the profession, especially in the field of health care, due to poor evaluation and so on. Thus, the human resources situation in this area is in fact very questionable in Slovenia. That's why we were looking for solutions. However, it is necessary to know that within a few months, you cannot obtain specialized medical personnel with the knowledge they need. It just doesn't work and education in the field of health, whether it's medical care or doctors, but it takes so long to make universal nurses, and you can't have universal doctors at this point. It's about licenses, licenses and so on. This way, of course, you can't do it. But it's true that some basics can be offered by the majority, but we're not talking about basics here, but we're talking about at least specialized knowledge right now. In providing doctors with what we do now, of course, it does not save the moment. The increased invitation to tender, the number of specializations, the big problems in family medicine, which young doctors simply do not make enough decisions this year, are also the remaining many places unoccupied. We are facing changes here in order to improve the situation and conditions in these areas in the long term, so that there is also a greater interest in this. What have we done for these areas? Firstly, we also allowed additional training and education over the summer, especially at a slightly lower level. Then, under these conditions, by order, which is sufficient in this place, we have ensured that young doctors, specialists, trainees, including in the field of health care, are involved in the work of maternity institutions or, where appropriate, hospitals where necessary. In addition, we have now received the 5 legal basis for the redeployment of health workers in the anti-korona package. I signed the order last week, so that they have the right to redistribute them, given that we also have some programmes – let's say if I look at emergency prevention, some of the reference ambulances are said and so on – have allowed these people to redistribute. Of course, that's not at the Ministry level, but it's a deal between institutions. The basis, the meaning and the law and the order, is written, but they must be implemented. Then, by order, we also restricted certain rights from the working relationship, at a time when the burdens are greater, the use of free hours, holidays and so on to ensure this urgent number. Maybe I should warn you because you asked about privates and concessionaires and integration. In the spring, we stopped virtually all activities because we didn’t know what was ahead of us because of a completely unknown disease. This is not the way we have now decided — to stop everything under the emergency — because of the waiting period mentioned earlier, the problems that all other patients have. Therefore, those who are not burdened with coronaryism are currently engaged in their activities. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your time is up. You'll be in the second part. I believe that the Member of Parliament wishes to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u210	Thank you very much. In the end, you began to respond to what was my purpose. Because my question is, because health workers have warned me about this, I have asked him to speak up in public. I have all the information that these individuals and concessionaires can only work in the area where they are trained, and those in public institutions are the transfers you are now talking about. And I'll be very specific: Why, Mr. Minister, you and the Government didn't train medical personnel from other departments, specialists, students, retired health workers in order to be prepared for this situation today at the second wave? Why didn't you do it? We hear that in Germany and in some other countries, they have taken action and prepared for this second wave during the summer, including by purchasing beds, full-scale co-vidal departments and, of course, by taking account of other health workers. Why didn't this government do it? I speak in multitude – government, not just you. This is what all those who needed to adapt to the new situation today are asking themselves today, all those who are unable to do so today. All those health workers who have come to assist in intensive departments, precisely in gray zones and red zone covid wards, are faced with the fact: saving lives for which they are not trained. But it might be better if we prepared for it. Fear of responsibility, fear of death, which are not in perfect proportion. They're scared because they're spreading covid rooms today, rebuilding rooms, moving patients from spaces to spaces, from building to building. They're actually in trouble. That's what they want to hear from you today right here in front of the cameras where those reasons weren't.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I've already used the press once today to make it possible to be a general after the battle, and today we might be considering things differently. The fact is that, in my opinion, so pronounced and strong a second wave, virtually no country expected, especially not so early. My personal – I admit, if someone told me in the summer, and you'd need a thousand beds for co-vid patients in the fall, it would be hard to believe. And in fact, most countries, presidents, ministers all claimed that there would be no more lockdowns, there would be no such restrictions, but with gradual respect for the measures, the use of masks and this, we would monitor the situation and move forward with as little economic damage as possible, and of course with as little health burden as possible. And when you look at these load curves or other waves today, virtually in all countries, given that the curves across Europe are in the same way, the curve is identical. We differ in heights, perhaps in the week of difference or in the ten days of how it goes, but it goes the same way. How violently this was – of course exponential growth, of course – can be seen from the fact that we, I don't know, needed 200, 300 beds at the beginning of October, but now we have a thousand 264 occupied in this segment. And that's why the difference between 10 days already means a crazy difference. We have been trained younger, but they have been trained mainly within their profiles, so specialists, I don't know, internal medicine, the direction of infectious diseases and so on, and also in the training of nurses have been trained and in hospitals and also in homes as preparations for covid. It is true, however, that the additional factor that has made the matter worse is the number of health - care workers infected with all the instructions we have given. All you need to know is that health workers live in the same environment as all of us, and most infections are brought into institutions. And if every 22. is infected, of course, the likelihood of a health worker getting infected is high. Now in the last 14 days, about a thousand and 800 health workers have been infected, I think. It is difficult to predict all these situations in advance to solve the problem and, on the other hand, to still have a limited number of employees. So, as I say, I would, if I was thinking today, maybe a step somewhere else. On the other hand, the matter took place so suddenly that I simply think it was quite prepared, and also the provision of beds in the way that some expected would not make sense. I think we did the right thing. I'm running out of time, aren't I? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u214	Dear Minister, I must thank you. Quite well, indeed, you have answered frankly. That's what you're saying. We have a sort of real state, based on your answer. This also shows that we have missed certain things, we have not been prepared enough, which is also real. I will not call for a general debate for a purely simple reason – because health care in all areas is now on the wallpaper. It's being monitored everywhere, everywhere, and we have a lot of other options to ask, to warn and to be critical of all of this. I want us to try to find those real grips in this strange situation as soon as possible so that health care can sustain it. This is the most important thing, and I hope that you will do as much as you can as Minister, even if the top of the policy will impose otherwise on you, and that you will make a team of experts that will be united in this, and that you will go this way so that confidence will also be increased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr Member, I must warn you that you have abused the procedural proposal. You yourself have said that you will not make a proposal to have a general debate, but you have somehow extended your debate, which is not correct, and I ask everyone else to limit ourselves to explain why we are making a procedural proposal after the general debate in these last three minutes. We're moving on. Mr Sonibo Knezak will ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear Minister! With the so-called PKP3, a supplement has been enacted for members of the Civil Protection Service and volunteers who have been activated to help contain the epidemic. The Appendix is set out in Article 66 of the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic. The first paragraph shall set an amount of EUR 30 per day and the fifth paragraph shall stipulate that the allowance is exempt from payment of taxes and contributions. However, this is essentially not the case in practice. I was approached by a citizen with a specific case. At the time of the epidemic, he was a volunteer who responded to the call of the congregation and worked within the Civil Protection. When paying the allowance for his voluntary work, his allowance was charged with taxes and contributions. It turned out that the third paragraph of the law does not refer to all volunteers but only those who perform voluntary work within the framework of public services or this public authority, such as lobsters, mountain rescuers, and the like. What I'm worried about, so I'm also turning to you, is that it's precisely because people who have responded to the cry for help in the epidemic will finally pay taxes for their modest compensation for public service. Contractual members of Civil Protection shall also not be entitled to this exemption in accordance with the provisions of the same Article. Those within the Civil Protection Department who bear the most burden in dealing with the epidemic will devote half and a beautiful part of their allowance to taxes and contributions. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why did you prepare the intervention law so that tax exemptions belong only to volunteers and not to contract members? Do you think the current regulation of epidemic additives is appropriate? Do you and how do you plan to make the situation of volunteers and also of contract members equal? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u218	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, thank you for asking. In doing so, I would like to point out that the Government is aware that civil protection personnel and volunteers at the time of the epidemic are very important in helping to carry out the tasks and measures related to the covid-19 infectious disease epidemic and, in the same way as those employed in the services necessary for the functioning of the country, are exposed to the risks of infection with the virus. Therefore, the State has given these persons, irrespective of the fact that they perform their protection, rescue and assistance tasks in a non-professional manner, a special allowance for exposure to danger and a special burden at the time of the epidemic. The supplement was first established by the Act on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the COVID-19 Epidemic, the so-called Third Anti-Koronic Law. That was the first time. It was intended for contractual and voluntary members of Civil Protection and also for volunteers performing tasks under the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Accidents. The adopted intervention legislation lays down a hazard allowance and specific burdens for different sectors, including health workers, public servants and the like. These allowances shall be paid on a regular monthly basis and shall be taxed in the same way as the income from the working relationship. Therefore, the issue of taxes and contributions for that supplement was not raised at the time of the adoption of the law. However, the so-called CAP5 brought about changes. The 5th Anti-Corona Act provided for exemption from the payment of taxes and contributions for the additions of volunteers performing public service tasks for protection, rescue and assistance. It's PKP5. Allow me to express my personal thanks and thanks on behalf of the Government to all who are helping to deal with the covid-19 virus. Since the Government is aware of the importance of contractual and voluntary members of the force for protection, rescue and assistance that perform tasks during the epidemic, it is also in the sixth anti-Korona package, which you will consider in the National Assembly next week, of course together with the Government, a solution, as stated in the Sixth Anti-Corona Law, that the supplements for danger and burden are not burdened by income or contributions. This compares the status of contract and voluntary members of Civil Protection and also of volunteers. So we have solved something with PKP5, which is already in force and we are otherwise calculating now or we are not calculating taxes and contributions, and with PKP6 the same, which means that these amounts – I think it is 30 euros, one scale is based on the hours being done here – they will not be taxed either by contributions or by taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u220	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you found out these differences yourself. I must say that the colleague who turned to me, who was this volunteer we are talking about, did not leave, probably like the other volunteers, because of these cash prizes. Of course, I also welcome the acceptance of these awards for volunteers in this National Assembly because they actually lack people. Not to explain, you probably know the problems better than I do. It is true, however, that there is a lot of confusion in this 66th article, which has been amended by the CAP5. You have three paragraphs, the first talking about whether a civil protection member or a citizen who has been called upon to perform protection tasks is entitled to the hazard allowance and special burdens. This is not the case in particular because he volunteered. And in the third, there are volunteers who perform public service tasks during the epidemic. That's what I said before. It's the lobsters, all those who have these public powers. That there was a lot of confusion – and that was also the purpose of my question to stop this from happening – also proves that they had quite a few problems. Here I also have here a letter on the interpretation of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, from which they addressed the Ministry of Finance precisely with the question addressed to them by the municipalities – how to pay these matters. If in this package, which will be now before us, these things are polished or you intend to settle them as you said, I will be alone, as far as I'm concerned, and probably the man who turned to me will be satisfied with this question. So thanks for the answer. And also below, President, I have no proposal for a debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Minister, anything else you'd like to add? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u222	Thank you very much again. And thank you again for all the volunteers. We felt that volunteers should also be rewarded, which was a basic guide. Here I'd like to say that I believe it came, and I myself know there have been complications in paying off. In addition, because different entities paid whether they were municipalities, companies in short, very many of these payers were, and both at national, regional and municipal level, persons receiving these supplements had different statuses. [[…]] These could have been pensioners, employees, unemployed as well as students. In short, on the one hand, we had a lot of payers, on the other hand, we had a lot of payers who also had different tax status, so to speak. Therefore, FURS, the financial management, has prepared a very precise instruction in this regard. In the first, it prepared this instruction, and I hope that all these taxpayers will stick to it. I'm essentially calling on everyone here to follow the exact instructions if this was back. But now it won't really be necessary to move forward because these contributions or these supplements won't be taxed again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Jožef Lenart will ask the Minister for Work, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities to Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear guests, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities Mr. Janez Cigler King! A few weeks ago, in the DZ, we discussed the 25th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, which shows that there are still many areas where human rights can and should be more respected. The Ombudsman's report states: "In 2019, we, inter alia, warned of the non-implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The government and the competent ministries in this area do not respond to the needs of persons with disabilities and do not provide the necessary support services in the community." Thus, the inaction of the former government in a very narrow area, in fact, of the physical inaccessibility of the disabled, has been noted. In fact, glib persons still do not have access to infrastructure and public institutions. After consulting persons with disabilities, I point out that people with mobility problems in everyday life and work are still very difficult, some public institutions still have no access to the ramp, and in many cases this is also a preoccupation. The steep ramp is actually for someone on a wheelchair who doesn't have very strong hands, just like it wouldn't be. For the same reason, it follows that housing is not accessible to people who are physically disabled, such as: multi-housing buildings are without elevators and have too many ramps or are damaged by these ramps. Persons on a wheelchair can't fit in restaurants either, because it's usually too low and the wheelchair gets stuck. Then there are sidewalks with high edges, curbs, then there are some kind of insurmountable obstacles for the people on the electric trolley. In this regard, I ask you, Minister Janez Cigler King: What activities are you carrying out and which are planned in the area of improving accessibility to public infrastructure and to public institutions for road users? What activities are you carrying out and which are you planning to improve the involvement of disabled persons and other disabled persons in the work and in society?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, honourable Member, Mr Joseph Lenart. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities respects the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified by the Republic of Slovenia among the first in 2008, and in 2010 it drafted a horizontal Act on the Equalization of the Opportunities of Persons with Disabilities, which was also adopted by the Government in the same year. The law also regulates the scope of accessibility that you are pointing out in your parliamentary question. In doing so, it should be pointed out that this law is the basis for the other laws of individual ministries, which are then obliged to implement specific areas of accessibility. We have also addressed the issue through some completed and some still active projects at the Ministry of Labour, such as We Can do, which aimed at promoting equality and preventing discrimination against persons with disabilities. On the basis of this project, an interactive online application was also developed to identify built barriers and, as a consequence, to remove them. The second project is the ZaAll/4ALL project, which aims to reduce discrimination and contributes to the awareness and reduction of problems in society in the field of equal opportunities and discrimination and is also aimed at removing architectural barriers in built buildings and in a built environment. However, the Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared a multi-annual multimodal mobility project covering all disabled persons, irrespective of their disability, through an online application to the point to which they are intended, an example of home service. In doing so, the application allows them to access the road without barriers. This project is still in development and is under way and we believe that it will also have beneficial consequences in the direction of removing the barriers built. The specific issue of the movemental obstacles faced in everyday life by obstacles such as unhindered lifts and ramps, which are often incorrectly set up, and when you address it to me, our ministry, it also applies to other ministries. In particular, unfettered lifts and ramps relate to the area of competence of the Ministry of Environment and Space, as the Construction Law and the Universal Construction and Use Regulations are within its competence. Both enable or provide for the construction and use of facilities accessible to all people, as well as the construction of flexible facilities and the use of facilities that specify in more detail the essential requirement for universal construction and use of facilities accessible to all people. The second question, the question of persons using wheelchairs in restaurants, is the responsibility of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. It is legislation on construction and safety products. The third question concerns persons who use an electric wheelchair and encounter the difficulty of moving to a high-angle sidewalk and the curbs and the legislation for this area is governed by the Ministry of Infrastructure. So the challenge or problem that you have highlighted in your oral question is undoubtedly relevant and clearly requires an inter-ministerial, horizontal approach, i.e. an inter-ministerial approach and horizontal coordination, cooperation, coordination to achieve what is our common objective – equality of access and prevention of discrimination against persons with disabilities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u228	Thank you very much again for your word. Mr. Secretary, thank you so much for those answers. Somehow I can see we're, I'll say, at some similar wavelength. But still, you said, there's more than one source in there. But just this maybe, not connecting [[…]] [[shows the object]] I pulled one of those pictures down, which actually doesn't touch your department, it's infrastructure. But there's this person on the cart who can't get past one drug, and he just made a sidewalk there. Although the picture is old, we have the same story in the area I come from. The state road between Markovci and Moškanjci, on the sidewalk there is lighting drugs, the trolley can no longer pass. I don't think even with a little bigger baby mommy stroller can. So, what I was going to say is that we have an interest, but that we have failed to solve basic issues for the disabled in recent decades, and that's not right. So the disabled are the ones that are somehow the most vulnerable. In fact, we fail to ensure the most basic, but we should ensure full equality. And given that, of course, disabled people are surprised that in Slovenia funds are allocated to various types of vulnerable groups, some may be less vulnerable than people with disabilities, others are also some groups that are collected from some flies, but despite everything in Slovenia, in order to somehow be equal to everyone in these areas, we devote quite a lot of resources, and then here in the field of disabled people we sort of embrace. [[…]] So we might add something else about hiring people with disabilities and making it easier to get involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u230	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you very much, Mr Member, for the supplementary question. With regard to the situation you've outlined on the basis of the photograph you've shown, there is no doubt that it's the task of all of us not to do so. So, we must ensure that all the guidelines in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are respected, and what is in my power, I will also do to really prevent such architectural and other obstacles to persons with disabilities. Also with regard to integration into the labour market, there is a major challenge that we are not afraid of or avoiding in this government. You know that businesses, disabled companies, some benefits and we support them in giving jobs to those who are in different ways more difficult to employ or disadvantaged, and we intend to continue this. However, we pay particular attention to the fact that, at this time, when the labour market is even lower, I would say, pressures, and vulnerable groups in particular, we would not overlook anyone in providing them with job protection, protection of status, and, last but not least, the possibility of rapid activation if the job they occupy closes. So thank you for this concern and we will also pay particular attention to this segment in advance with our activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u231	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister for Infrastructure Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! I am asking you an oral question about the desired co-incineration of waste by TES in Velenj. 29. Ten. 2020 The current director of TES, Mr Mitja Tašler, even stated that they can burn up to 15% of alternative fuels in TES – waste. And if there's not enough of ours, they'll obviously import them. The fate of Lafarge in Trbovje has shown us when Lafarge suffered severe damage to the environment and also to the health of people that it had to be closed, at the same time along with the Anhovo cement plant, which also co-incinerates – as Lafarge co-incinerated and as TEŠ wants to co-incinerate – has shown that questions have been raised here as to whether co-incineration plants are allowed in Slovenia with uncontrolled discharges such as co-incineration plants. So, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you a question: Have you already issued an updated energy permit pursuant to Article 52 of the Power Law of the Šostanj Power Plant for the use of a new energy source, that is, incineration of the waste? In fact, a legal power permit is the basic condition for supplementing the building permit that would be needed by the Šostanj Termoelectric power plant, TEŠ 6 in this case. And the second thing I want to know is: What information on the intention to use the new energy plant has the Termoelectric power plant Šostanj already provided you? If this is large-scale documentation, I would ask you if you could also contact me in writing. Why am I asking you, Mr. Secretary, about this matter? At the last meeting of the National Assembly, I asked you very carefully whether you have already been issued or if you have an application at the Ministry for a new energy consensus. I didn't get an answer to that question from you. In fact, the Energy Act explicitly states that it is necessary to obtain an energy permit for any reconstruction of energy facilities that changes energy parameters and the extent to which changes are necessary to obtain a building permit for the reconstruction of the operation. But the Ministry is the one or your signature is the one who confirms the matter. I'm asking you for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u234	Madam Vice President, Mr. Ambassador! In view of this issue, I will be very clear and clear. In view of the above, neither Thermal Power Plant Šostanj nor Holding Slovenian Power Plant, i.e. HSE, have submitted any applications for the issue of an energy permit for waste co-incineration and such an energy permit in accordance with the Energy Act, on the contrary, they do not actually need to. Therefore, it is not a production device, it is not an increase in rated power in the TES nor is it an impact on the transmission energy network and so far we have not received any applications for the issue of an energy permit. That's all I can answer in the most explicit way without saying what the Energy Law says.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u236	Mr. Secretary, you didn't answer me. Thank you for not answering my question, but I'll ask you another question. In fact, for the installation of a new technology to teach you – new technologies – it is said that now the wastes that are significantly more energy-intensive than the giant lignite will be fueled – need to obtain a new usable permit, as co-incineration will change all the essential parameters under which a useful permit has been issued for the facility. This is a major change in technology — which was then also the subject of environmental impact assessments — because only a giant lignite or something small was allowed in Indonesia’s black coal — is now being smoked in the garbage. I'm asking you this. This will also require a change in space and an additional investment in power plants. It is a special bearing structure, it is a new opening in the building, that is in this boiler, a change in the facade, new access will also increase the gabarits of the facility. The fact is, however, that the following question is raised: Will the Ministry of Infrastructure, which you run, Mr. Minister, require the thermal power plant to obtain a guarantee or statement from the contractor Alstom, who has prepared this power plant from which we bought it so that no damage or damage will occur in the facilities due to the burning of waste, SRF? In fact, for this change of energy, a new, fairly large investment that we will have to pay to the boiler manufacturer is Alstom, and with him I know that we do not have the most accurate experience in Slovenia, as they do not have in other countries, especially because of corrupt practices. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u237	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u238	Thank you again for the question, in addition. I'll start with what was at the end. We will do what is necessary if it is necessary to meet all the objectives and also all environmental requirements. And if it is necessary for all stakeholders in this process to get what we need, we will do so. Then I'll get back to basics. In our opinion, TES will definitely need, as you yourself said, an environmental permit issued by Arso, under another resort. In accordance with Article 82 of the Environmental Protection Act, it is necessary to obtain an environmental permit for the operation of an installation or for any major change in operation, of course, if an activity causing emissions in the air, water or soil is carried out and the emission limit values are prescribed for it. In this case, it would therefore not be a device in which an activity which can lead to pollution of an environment of a greater magnitude is carried out, as stated in Article 68 of the Environmental Protection Act. In this case, the device is a stationary or mobile technological unit for which it is specified that it can cause an environmental burden because it carries out one or more specified technological processes and at the same location the other processes directly related to them, which may cause an environmental burden. Certainly, in accordance with Article 82 of the Environmental Protection Act, it is necessary to obtain an environmental permit for the operation of the device or for any major change in operation. As far as the first piece is concerned. What I said to you – we will do whatever it takes to verify everything, and this is it. No one will be, even if it is Alstom or any other company, in no privileged position, regardless of the reputation or the reputation it enjoys in the world.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Mr. Brickler, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u240	The procedural proposal, of course, that the issue is being addressed at a future meeting of the National Assembly, because the issue of co-incineration of waste is open. Ministers covering the infrastructure or the environment and space have several times in the National Assembly – as was the case when the issue of Lafarge and pollution on its part, as well as the issue of pollution and damage to the population around Anhove – were raised – that the issue of co-incineration in Slovenia would be examined, or that it would be through the identification of measurements to determine the strong overcoming of permitted critical levels of limitation, that either things would be evenled, as concerns pollution, incineration, or co-incineration in Slovenia. We now have an opportunity, a forecast of the start of a new co-incineration that will have a major impact on the environment and the surrounding population, and I therefore assess or believe that this issue needs to be addressed in the National Assembly, so that the National Assembly of Responsibility cannot be resolved in order to identify this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u241	Thank you very much for your proposal. The National Assembly will decide on it on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. The next is Mr Vojko Starović, who will raise the question to Mr Aleš Hojs, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u242	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary! I must mention again the World Bank's report on capital measurement of the 21st century, which was made in study 122 of the world's countries. A very extensive study and this study concludes that the most important part of national wealth is the good functioning of institutions. The prosperity of the most developed is in fact based on institutions that allow the largest possible part of the population to participate in politics and the economy. But where there are groups and clans, where our own rules are different from those of the rest, where the authorities are subordinated to the judiciary, the media and the parliament, there is no success in the long run. These important institutions certainly include the police, which is one of the advocates of established values, human rights and freedoms. And the situation in our society and even the police are not the brightest right now, I'd say it's even difficult. It's not about arson, I agree with you, Minister, that burning each other over people may cause discomfort. This is about aggression in communication that is not necessary. This, of course, in addition to covid-19, increases people’s distress, frustration and separation, which pushes the way into conflict. The savagery we witnessed in Ljubljana is certainly also a reflection of the increasing presence of lies and manipulations, hate speech, including by the government. Nevertheless, we can see that these protests or manifestations of this savagery have come from completely different circles. You yourself mentioned in an interview in Del that things come from even criminal circles. Indeed, individuals, including the owners of cafes, what I know, editors, drug dealers, I don't know, the invitations were also addressed to clubs with martial arts, and these groups were apparently pursuing some completely different goals, including violence against police. So there's some escalation of inappropriate behavior. And you, Mr. Secretary, have branded them guilty. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Member, your time has run out. Now the Minister has the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! At the end of the day, it really wasn't the best thing to hear, but here I have to protest a little. I never said that the media or the opposition were guilty of these protests, but I said that the media had to take some responsibility, I didn't talk about guilt. Or part of the guilt if you want. I also spoke about the opposition, but not in the sense that you are guilty of these particular riots that took place on Thursday, but I have said something else. I said that in these times – that is, from February or March on, when we have a few short breaks in dealing with a relatively very severe epidemic – this now shows more than in the spring work – mostly all the media and the whole opposition have been silent about all those Friday events that were just as illegal. Maybe we're all blinded now by the fact that at those Friday protests, which I've already said several times today, there was no such thing as drastic, I'd call vandalism, if I say so myself. But also on Friday's protest, dolls were set on fire, they stoned the figure of the Prime Minister, they burned my doll, they called for the murder of the Prime Minister, and there were a few other things I could count. The media hasn't come forward very often in all this time, at least I haven't heard from them, except maybe some that you say are close to the right. Otherwise, you could monitor weekly media coverage of the protests on POP TV, where you could even see Mr. Jenul talking to and explaining to the journalist where they would go, where they would turn, when they would come to Slovenia and so on. If, in all these weeks or months, you as the opposition, and the media, more than you, have not recognized the organiser of these protests, it is indeed sad. Of course, there was no formal organizer, nor did anyone formally take over the organization of this protest this Thursday. Since the middle of last month, however, the police have been monitoring what is happening on social networks, so they have invited this protest meeting, as you yourself said, to invite locals, some, to say combat sports or clubs with martial arts. I have ordered at the Ministry of the Interior to check first whether they hold any indications as to whether any of those who have been appointed on social networks and have also been listed as security officers for certain services, which licence or whether any of these are still an accredited security guard. As you know, the security companies must have a special permit, all these people have security clearance, these companies are responsible for these people. I have to say that somehow I have been pleased to find, after having been reported to me, that none of those mentioned there has an active legitimacy that any of these companies protecting people's property are employed. But they had this ID. So those who were written there were once active members of various Ljubljana security services. That is why I decided, and this week I invited you to an interview – I think Wednesday or Thursday – the president of the Chamber of Mr Slak, former director of the Police Administration Novo mesto, and the three biggest directors of Slovenian security services, so we have Sintal, we have Activa Group protection and something else. On Thursday or Wednesday we will put the cards on the table, and I would also like to know the position of these directors who employ such or other security guards. On Thursday, there was no doubt that it was not just a protest against the epidemic, against the fact that people were imprisoned, but it was obvious and more than a clear interest to provoke the police or to the police in some way to know that their direction, their protection or their directions As you know, in the case of unorganized meetings, it is the police who must take care of the order and the protection of such a meeting if they are not declared and organised. [[…]] And it was more than obvious that there was a desire for the police to be provoked to the point where there were riots. Unfortunately, that's what happened. Why this has happened, and I have tried many times – I hope that it is successful, but I believe that for many it is not successful – I have tried to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u246	I sent two questions in writing. I think that the answer was pretty professional, he made the matter more clear. And the second question: What will you do to strengthen confidence in the police, their independence, and their respect? What's this all about? For these frequent, repeated exchanges, as well as attacks on individual police officers because of their role, riots among police officers are spreading and dissatisfied. The union even said there could be a strike. But I think it would be very bad, and we need to worry, and you first have to worry that the police are working and that after 11 days we can come up with an answer to what happened to these protests. It is not right to mix protests where people express different opinions and views than the Government, and if these are calm – it may be a violation of covida, of these decrees, but – it is a completely different nature. That was mine, and we have to stick to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u248	Thank you for the supplement. I completely agree with you. These Friday's protests – although I said earlier that, according to my assessment, at least some had already shown relatively high signs of aggression or violence – I also presented it plastically – but the police, except those at the beginning when they didn't really know what intensity these protestors were thinking of protesting, did not consider it to be a high risk, and that is what it is. Because of this, as you have seen, on Thursday it was actually more and more strict, from fences to calls for special units practically from all over Slovenia, to a prepared water cannon in the immediate vicinity and several others, cavalry, for example, which was not before. In this case, I think the police did the right thing, based on what they could have discovered on social networks, and all that they had in direct personal communication with people, I think the level of risk is high. As an interesting thing to say, at least that's how the police told me that, like Mr Ličina, as I said on the committee, they couldn't get it before a few days before the protest itself. He used to be somewhere else. He said that he was completely peaceful, that he was more about establishing a new party than he was about some protests, that in fact, when he invites people to protest, he somehow gathers a base for the new party he will set up, and similar things. You later saw that he was at the protest. What he was doing there, we don't know yet, but we know he was running away from the protest. So, after the police arrested him, after they wanted to bring him in for questioning, he first fled and in a car with a foreign driver — of course, he did not drive himself — tried to take him out of the back seat of the protest site without the police finally arresting him. Well, the police finally caught him. As for confidence in the police, I must say that, as in all these systems, I think still justified in the first place of the Slovenian Armed Forces, and the Slovenian Police have some such organisations, civil protection, for example, which Slovenians very much trust. I believe that the police will not waste this trust with any action or other. Of course, I can't agree to the thesis that what the union is saying, especially that union that is in fact in the last week or in the last few days somehow deplorablely politicize things We can also, and I think it will be necessary to present all that promotion or, I would say, real payments to the police in the last four or five years. [[…]] And you can see that there is no reason to strike, to say the opposite. In fact, there is no reason to strike, and if there is a strike, it will occur solely because of the union's politicization.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u250	Thank you. Thanks for the answers, too. But I think it's such an important topic that it's worth discussing, that we're talking about the institution in particular, I'm talking about the Police Institute. I agree with you that to the police in general – we also pick up what is written – the government is quite confident and that is not really going to be wasted, even as I have already mentioned, with these exchanges, with some decisions, and do not give up and so on. We have to keep it safe. You are the minister of all of us Slovenes, first-class, second-class, no matter, you are common, and in terms of this zeal, I think that you could influence that on television, which you have run and is really hot, and threats are falling, even in democracy could affect that level. I propose a debate on the Police Institution and how to make it even more ours and humane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Ambassador Janez Moškrič will ask the Minister for Environment and Space Mags a question. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u252	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! Mr Andrej Vizjak, Minister of Environment and Space! I ask you about the expertise and the relevance of the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Water Protection Area Regulation for the waterborne body of the Ljubljana field aquifer. This is from the 2015 Official Journal 43. The above paragraph reads: “In the areas of existing burial sites in Stožice, Dravaje and Šentvid are permitted a glamorous and classical way of burial. Expansion of the cemetery to plots outside the areas of existing burial sites is not permitted.” It is interesting that this second paragraph is a literal copy of the old regulation and was in Article 25. However, if we look at this regulation as a whole, we find that the areas where these sites are located in the water protection zone II B, where it is permissible to build burial buildings and accompanying facilities. This is reflected in the tables and also in the graphic annexes. Thus, construction is possible on these lands, in fact there is a lot of housing on all of these land. In 2010 there was also a change in the spatial plan of the Municipality of Ljubljana, where these plots around these three cemeteries are somehow intended to expand the cemetery, especially in terms of infrastructure, which is now existing, old cemeteries do not. It is said that the need of the local community is great in this area, which is known to the population, and is also aware of the City Municipality of Ljubljana. Therefore, the initiative following the regulation, the amendment of this Article, this part of the article, has already been given in the past. I want to know: In all these years, why has the said part of Article 29 of the Water Protection Area Regulation not been deleted for the waterborne body of the Ljubljana Field aquifer? Because there are no professional grounds for this to be unacceptable construction if we know that there are needs, and the area does not fall under such high protection in terms of water protection. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u254	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. In accordance with Article 74 of the Water Act, water protection zones shall be established to protect water bodies and also to control the risks of drinking water pollution. In fact, this protects and introduces a specific water protection regime in the area. Water protection regulations are, in fact, everywhere in this country, where these water bodies and these water resources are; and consequently, of course, a water regime is also established and limits interventions to that area. The specific water protection regulation for the Ljubljana field was adopted in 2003-2004 and then updated in 2015. The City Municipality of Ljubljana also actively participated under this Regulation. At the request or initiative of the Municipality of Ljubljana, an arrangement was laid down by the Water Protection Area Regulation of the Ljubljana Field to allow only the expansion of the central cemetery of Žala, while this fact is not allowed in other local burial sites. It is said that the Municipality of Ljubljana was the creator of this initiative, the requirements because it implemented some of its enlargement policy unfortunately and not the other burial sites in order to reach this arrangement. This arrangement has now been exceeded. In autumn of this year, we joined in the preparation of a new regulation on the Water Protection Area of the Ljubljana Field, where it will now be proposed by the MOL, says the current team, also removing this provision and the expansion of the local cemetery will be possible. However, MOL also gives other views to this arrangement and is in coordination with the Municipality of Ljubljana. If you ask me when this regulation will be adopted, this is largely dependent on these negotiations. But I'm sure it will be in a relatively short time next year.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u256	Thank you very much for your answer. Of course, I also pointed out that in 2004 this part of the article was written in a provision. I also said, as you have found, that in 2010 Ljubljana generally changed the spatial plan; and also these stories with local burial sites went in the direction that we all continue to bury ourselves. As well as a much smaller cemetery, such as the Shentvid cemetery. If I can only summarise once again the fact that they are in agreement, there is coordination and that we can expect this part of the article to be abolished in 2021, which will allow for the expansion of the cemetery. Is this or is it not that there will be a deletion of this provision in the coming year?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u258	Thank you. Exactly what I said in the first answer. I said that the new regulation on the water protection area of Ljubljana is currently in coordination with the Municipality of Ljubljana; that this restriction on the expansion of the local cemetery – not only the Schengen area but also the rest – will be lifted. The city congregation no longer insists on this and also follows the initiative that you represent; and, of course, another arrangement will be possible. This is the moment of coordination with the Municipality of Ljubljana. If this harmonisation is relatively rapid, this regulation will also be relatively rapid in government. But I'm sure it will be in 2021.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u259	Thank you very much. The following is Lidija Divac Mirnik, who will question the Minister of Infrastructure Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u260	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. Nice greeting, Mr. Secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In recent years a number of different strategies have been developed to revive the Maribor airport. Maybe a little history to begin with. The last in a series of proposed solutions was the transformation of Maribor airport into a so-called boutique airport for some Friday guests and so on. That wasn't any of it. After that, DRI took over the Maribor airport, which said that unusable carriers of carriers would be parked at the airport until the airlines were re-established throughout the world, but all of this was also discontinued. Then you, Mr Minister, have somehow marked this solution on your visit in June as inappropriate and through online social networks have said a new strategy where you briefly presented your vision. According to you, this airport is supposed to become a multimodal cargo logistics center called Smart Hub Maribor. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you the following question: What is the current relationship with the Chinese real estate owner in the airport area? Could the former Chinese owners also have brought a compensation action against the State? What are the current costs of the DRI for managing Maribor Airport? What do you think about the initiative of the List for Justice and Development of Maribor on the replacement of property between UKC Maribor and the country and the airport building at Maribor Airport and Maribor City Municipality? And very specifically on this Smart Hub Maribor I ask you the following questions: What is the scenario for a permanent solution for the Maribor airport? Will any spatial acts need to be amended or supplemented before the logistics centre is established? Who is producing project documentation and at what stage is this process also located? Was the Municipality of Maribor also involved in the preparation of the project? What activities will be included in this logistics centre that you are talking about? What is the value of this investment you're talking about? Are the investor selection procedures completed? And if they are, then who is chosen? But since I'm going to have an extra one, I'll continue later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u261	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u262	Mr Vice-President, thank you very much for the floor. Finally, thank you for this very important question that I have been dealing with since the month of May of this year, when I first visited Maribor. When I arrived in Maribor, the situation regarding the airport was very complicated. We've finally started doing things. Right now we have an idea design by the DRI, what Smart Hub Maribor would look like, what a multimodal logistics center Maribor would look like. And last week, I also introduced him to the mayor of Maribor City, and we were together in Maribor, and we also discussed this. At the beginning of the next week, I would also like to meet with the other representatives of the local communities, i.e. the other mayors. I also presented this to Mayor Hotz to Mr Sorsk, who was with me at the Ministry about three weeks ago. It is said that the local community is involved in this project. If anyone thinks that Maribor Airport will live on the basis of existing strategies, it will not, because so far it is not based on all these strategies. The fact that the DRI manages this airport was, if I understood correctly the former Minister, who decided to do so, only a temporary solution, which must somehow be completed and finally resolved. You asked seven questions. If I'm going step by step, we need an extraordinary meeting of the Infrastructure Committee to present all of this to you. I will also include all the Moroccan Members, the coalition and the opposition in the debate; but allow us to present the idea first to the mayors themselves. If the mayors do not agree with this solution prepared by the DRI, what Smart Hub Maribor should look like, then we will not continue with this project. And it is also true that you are familiar with this project before I go to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with this design and with this change and the addition of the VAT. So I'm answering your second question - DN. We will also present this to the Members themselves. As far as the DN is concerned, let me say, of course, we're going to go into a change in the DN, not just to extend the line at first, so there's no mistake, because I think we'd make too much noise. We would only look at the tree, not the forest itself. Access should be regulated if we are talking about a multimodal logistics centre, it is necessary to arrange railway access, track to Smart Hub itself. Otherwise, it doesn't matter that we're talking about smart mouth if there's no train access. On the other hand, let me say that we've made zone one, zone two, zone three, together it's about 400 hectares of surface. This would be a very large, largest logistics centre, very modernly designed, the largest logistics centre in Slovenia. This would be the primary back warehouse, the logistics center of Luke Koper, which would be very modernly designed. We'll reach into the D.N.N. around and around Magna. By once Magna is in this area, we said that if Magna is there with all the environmentalists' permission, production, then the logistics center works there without problems. Maribor with its surroundings has an extremely logistical opportunity to develop this kind of activity that we need to take advantage of. And since there's an airport on this route circle, it's an additional cargo opportunity. It's irrelevant to talk about potential investors. First talk with local communities, signature of letters of intent, I count on it to be by the end of this year. In the meantime, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is expanding the VAT and then we are going to an international architectural competition to see what this Smart Hub Maribor will look like. But we do nothing past the local communities, and we will not do anything past the members of the National Assembly coming from the fields of Maribor and the surrounding area. Another thing that was mentioned about investors. No investors are being searched for this moment, although I have already received from two countries an initiative from my publication on social networks to be potential buyers of this project. But it's not the first thing. In the past, the buyers and I have come to terms with the problem that I am solving. And that's what the second part of the answer is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Minister, I thank you for some information. But we still have some things to solve. I'm still wondering: What is the relationship or where we are with the former owners, the Chinese owners? Those of us from Maribor know that the Chinese own all of them, so to speak, the property to the property itself, the roads and so on. We can't even get to our own airport because someone did it the way he did. That's why I'm once again interested in: Did the former Chinese owners file a complaint against the State? I fully agree with you that, apart from extending the line there, we must also bring the railway to that part. If memory does not deceive me, this plan was already at the time of the government of Marjan Šarc and this was also put into the budget. So it just has to be done or done; of course, it also changes the VAT, which I am glad that you will. I am also pleased that you recognize the Maribor airport as an extremely logistical opportunity and as an exceptional potential where such a Cargo Centre should have stood long ago; however, this and other political decisions have not led to this. Still, I'm curious when you say you're going to talk to the local mayors, which, of course, I welcome: What exactly are you going to talk to besides the mayor of Maribor and Hodgish? And I'm also interested in: Are you thinking about what I was talking about, that the municipality of Maribor would also become a shareholder of this airport in the manner that we have already proposed to you? So, the state, the UKC and the variants I was talking about. That seems very important to me. Well, I'm interested in the clock anyway. So you're going to talk to the mayors, then you're going to present this to the MPs, and how do you proceed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u266	Thank you. I am very pleased with this discussion because I have given quite a lot of attention to the Maribor airport, and this can also be said by the mayor of Maribor. The Chinese – judicial proceedings are in which we are involved daily. But that's not all, on the other hand, there are conversations to reach a settlement as soon as possible, but I can't do more than mention it to you. Unfortunately, in the past, he was too hasty to do business without a tavern. I'm not gonna have that kind of thing. Even when we receive concessions for Maribor Airport, I will not be too hasty. Just because someone is very wealthy and has money doesn't mean that he can be a good master and a good owner. Second thing. I will also meet with the Mayor of Rače-Fram and the Mayor of the Municipality of Miklavž in Dravska Polje. I think there's another congregation, but I can't remember it right now, so I apologize. But with all the mayors that Maribor Airport has to do with. As the municipality of Maribor is involved, we can talk about this; however, I must say that we have not yet talked about this with the mayor. We talked in this sense that I showed him the plan of the Ministry and the DRI. I should say that I have listened to architects, experts in this field, what smart music means abroad, what ideas there are, green smart loses, so to speak, what this Bauhaus is like and what is also an opportunity for co-financing from abroad. And I listened to it. This is not a classic logistics center in the sense of a container terminal as you know it in Graz. I think that within 14 days you will have this opportunity to see all the presentation, and you will see that this is actually an opportunity for an idea that will really mean a new breakthrough in this part of the region to take advantage of these development potentials. With regard to the timeline, I think that by the end of this year we will be in the government adopting the VAT supplements or all the necessary conclusions to supplement the VAT and the letters of intent with the mayors of local communities. The draft letter of intent is already on the table because I would like to introduce it to every mayor in particular. Then, at the beginning of the following year, an international architectural competition that would take about six months. It takes architects a year to draw it right. This is not a small area, it is – as I said, the first, second and third zones – 400 hectares of land, which would also be connected to the railway. Once upon a time this concept had been in force, it was once a project called Oreh. Now we call it Smart Hub Maribor. means noise. [[Incomprehensible]] So let's move on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u267	I'm afraid your time has run out. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, I must admit that I absolutely agree with you. I also agree with the idea of this project, because, as we say, this is probably some modification of the Oreh project that I know, and you probably do. But this Maribor airport, for those who do not know, is not actually located in the Maribor congregation, so I asked the minister earlier what I asked him; but he is lying in a nearby congregation. Nevertheless, I think it is important that the congregation of Maribor become a formal participant. That is why the proposal of the List for Justice and Development is the same as it was. And I ask you politely to consider him. If the mayor of Maribor doesn't know him, then the mayor of Maribor doesn't read some things because we should know him because we introduced him. But let's just leave it. The Maribor airport is undoubtedly of paramount importance for the development of this region – for the area of tourism, for the area of Pohorje, which covers northeast Slovenia all the way to Koroška. This airport would make sense to resuscitate. Considering what it's like, except it's nice and new, that's all. Therefore, I think it is important that we also speak about this to Members, not only to the Moroccan Members, but to all Members, that we are aware that Maribor, as the second largest city, needs an airport. Whether this, as we say, will be a logistics center or something else, we will probably have to make a decision on the basis of some documents. However, I would certainly like this government to be aware of decentralisation also in actions, not only in speaking and in some responses; but in particular in action. And here you can actually prove it. I would like to carry out this project; but I would also like, as I suggest in my third part, that the importance of the Maribor airport, the projects to be carried out there, also at the final stage of the investment and everything that should be there, we also discuss at the meeting of the National Assembly, because Maribor absolutely deserves it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Tina Heferle will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u270	Thank you, Vice President. Good-bye, everybody! Madam Minister, my question touches on the appointments and advancements of state prosecutors. I'll start like this. SMC – your party, Madam Minister, at the time of joining this government, has advocated that it will be the only and greatest defender of democracy and the rule of law in this government. Since the Janša government's appearance, we can still see all this breakdown of social sub-systems, including one of the more important or more sensitive subsystems, i.e. the State Prosecutor's Office. During the time of this government, there was a number of direct or indirect political pressure on law enforcement authorities, including the State Prosecutor's Office; and if I focus only on the latter, which took place in the process of appointing and advancing state prosecutors. In this process, the Government has ignored, if I may say so, the proposal formulated by the State Prosecutor's Council. We know that the procedure is that the law provides for the Government to confirm the proposal made by the State Prosecutor's Council. He introduces it to the Ministry of Justice, to your ministry, to the Minister, and then the Government confirms it. The State Prosecutor's Council is an expert body composed of prosecutors and external legal experts. This proposal is drawn up on the basis of an expert assessment and the examination of the professional conditions, and candidates waiting for the appointment are exposed to some long-term and thorough professional verification of their suitability. But what is very dangerous about this – and here is my question for you, Madam Minister – is going to become dangerous when the government wants to make appointments or to politicize progress to the extent that it retains any appointment or promotion of the Attorney General only because of his political non-presence. Among other things, there was no appointment of a candidate working on the anti-corruption commission; we know what this is dealing with today. The progress of the prosecutor was halted, which dismissed the complaint in which the Prime Minister claimed that the word “death of Yanshima” meant a threat of death. My question to you, Madam Minister, is: How do you comment on all this, given that your ministry has put forward a proposal for the appointment and promotion of state prosecutors, which was identical to the proposal made by the State Prosecutor's Council?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u272	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Mrs Heferle, thank you for this question. You know the process of appointing state prosecutors. At present, it is an arrangement that the State Prosecutor's Council is the independent and professional body which, indeed, after a very long process – procedures continue for a very long time – shocks from an expert, psychological, personal point of view, in short, with the criteria set out, the appropriateness of the individual candidate. Where is the role of the Ministry of Justice and me as Minister – a double role. We have an invitation to tender, we have an invitation to tender and then we have a proposed role to play. If we receive a final opinion from the State Prosecutor's Council, the Minister may, if he does not agree with the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council, request an additional supplement; otherwise, he shall submit a proposal to the Government. In this mandate, the Ministry of Justice issued 14 proposals, final ones, i.e. opinions of the State Prosecutor's Council, on 4 July, and all four appointments were made at the end of August. We later made 10 more proposals, of which 5 were appointed and 5 are still waiting for classification. There is a Rules of Procedure on the functioning of the Government which, at the time when the material is submitted to the Government by the Ministry, lays down the procedure for how to proceed. This material was not included in the information system; the Ministry of Justice has once written and twice asked for inclusion. I don't know those reasons that you're giving. I don't usually deal with names myself. Believe it or not, I don't know who they are, because I think their expertise is important, not their name. I condemn any political accounting of judges and state prosecutors, whether in the National Assembly or in the Government. That's my comment on your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, in large part, if not in the whole part of your reply, I agree with you. Indeed, the State Prosecutor's Council shakes the expertise of each individual, as you said. I spoke in particular about this latest case of appointments and promotions to be addressed in the Government. If I understand you correctly, you have not even fully addressed this in the Government, it is the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Council, which you have confirmed at your ministry as proposed. I understand that the government is a college body; however, I do not understand that you, as the competent minister, may no longer pay attention to this or may not act more decisively in cases where, in my opinion, there is obvious politicisation, at least an attempt to politicise or discredit individual prosecutors because of their professional decision. On the other hand, this is interpreted as political non-compliance. I strongly doubt that it is only and only a coincidence that among these candidates who have not been granted promotion, the prosecutor who dropped the criminal charge in the event that the Prime Minister claims, I will repeat that the word “death of Janshism” is a threat to death. I seriously doubt that this is a coincidence. And now, as Minister, I ask you once again: Do you have any leverage for that? However, as Minister, you are also a member of the government – a college body. And I want to know: Why didn't you cheer for such appointments?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u276	Thank you. For your understanding, five proposals have not yet been included in the government's meeting. Despite the levers that the minister has to ask for this, you don't have any other levers. However, we are preparing to amend the legislation. We also want the appointment of state prosecutors to approach the judiciary. We also want a much more flexible human resources policy. We know we don't have enough state attorneys because that's what they do. The form of appointment or the establishment of a single state prosecutor will thus lead to the abolition of many of these procedures. If you say that I am too determined to do so, or I am not opposed to such a relationship or political reaction; you know that this is on the side of the National Assembly and on the side of the Government; a lot of this is for prosecutors and also for judges. On many different sides, I am asked to comment on various judgments. It also happened a little while ago that there was also a hearing in Parliament about the judges because of their trial, which I think is absolutely inappropriate. I judge, but I don't speak every time, because I think we should all have a political culture together. Undoubtedly, it is not the Minister of Justice who teaches the political culture of other policies. But the fact is that today is an international day of tolerance and we should be more aware of it, especially in politics, and learn a culture of dialogue. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u278	Yes, I agree on a political culture, Madam Minister. But I don't agree with you saying you can't come out every time. These cases that are happening to us in the D.A.'s office, in the police station, in other investigative offices -- not to be too wide, I'm just going to focus on the D.A.'s office -- they're not just like that. Looking at a legal state, it is extremely important that the state prosecutor is not dependent on every single authority, that he is not subjected to any political pressure or other pressure; so my appeal was primarily in this regard, given that you are a competent responsible minister. As far as this political culture is concerned, yes, I am often surprised by the work of this government. I don't mean you personally, maybe more like the Prime Minister of the government, when he's on Twitter with the state's attorney's office, and I'm not gonna be too harsh. I am also surprised by the attempt to amend criminal legislation by the Minister of the Interior of Hojs, although this is your department, Madam Minister. And here I understand your distress, if I put it that way, you really don't have any formal levers. But since I believe that you are a self-sacrifice minister, that you are aware of your work, I am surprised – perhaps here I think a little bit more about SMC – that insistence in this government, where we see that some established social systems are collapsing, where the ruling party is practically destroying some of the legal and democratic standards that are in force in this country. And for this reason, because I think these are very important issues – the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office, I propose that the National Assembly discuss these issues; and that perhaps once and for all, a political majority agrees that this must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Only Bevk will ask the Minister without a department responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonku Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u280	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! In view of the long-standing mining, the area directly above the Idrija mercury mine must be protected and the city of Idrija must be protected from the consequences of the possession and other consequences of long-standing mining and reflected in the mining damage to infrastructure and other facilities, the degraded environment and the health condition of former miners and residents of the city, which have occurred in the affected areas of the mine and in the wider area of the city of Idrija. The European Commission has set up a Fund for a Fair Transition, which is intended primarily for coal regions. In addition to already eligible Slovenian coal regions, these are the Savinja-Šalej region and Zasavje, which would be included in the Fair Transition Fund, Slovenia is seeking to include the Goriška region or the North Sea region, the Gorenj region and the Koro region. Therefore, Minister Zvonko Černač, responsible for development and European cohesion policy, I ask you: Do you support the rehabilitation of mining damage and degraded environment due to the consequences of mining in the mercury mine Idri of the Fair Transition Fund? I thank you in advance for your answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u282	Thank you for asking. Nice greetings to all present once again! While the question concerns only directly to me, the more direct answers could come from the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, but I am pleased to answer you in this context, as I know about the Fair Transition Fund. As you know, the transition to a climate neutral economy is one of the most important policy objectives of the European Union. You mentioned the issue to the Slovenian coal region, which is in the process of abandoning coal activities. It's the Shaleška region and the Zasav region. These two regions have already been identified by the European Commission in the Slovenia 2020 report. This is why restructuring activities have already begun and are under way, including the preparation of a national strategy and two plans to phase out coal exploitation in these two Slovenian coal regions. Of course, this transition also requires financial resources for restructuring, in order for the economy in these regions to focus in a different direction on people getting jobs and opportunities in other areas. As a result, the Ministry of Infrastructure or the then State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure is 29 years ago. 1. 2019 addressed to the Director-General of the Energy Directorate of the European Commission the role of restructuring these two coal regions, namely SAŠA and Zasavje. 15. 3. 2019 was sent a positive response by the European Commission. On this basis, it was also possible to use resources to prepare an appropriate study by the European Commission, where Slovenia still had and had some EUR 500 000 at its disposal, as this document is the basis for the preparation of the relevant programmes and access to funds from the Fair Transition Fund. Since the creation of this Regulation on the Fund for Fair Transition has enabled an expansion of the possibility of using resources, I have already taken the initiative and this initiative was at the level of the NGS1 Group led by the President of the Government, 10. 9. also adopted. At the same time, it was decided that Slovenia should take into account the formal options available on the basis of the proposal for a Regulation of 28. 5. 2020 has also drawn up a proposal to explore the extension of areas to abandoned industrial areas. And this initiative was also implemented days ago, and the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, as the competent ministry, submitted to the European Commission, the competent Directorate, a proposal to extend these regions to the regions of Goriška, Gorenjska and Koroška. In particular, these are regions where individual abandoned industrial areas are concerned. Either and to what extent this initiative will be successful, it will be known after the study carried out and after the decisions of the European Commission based on this study. The formal basis, of course, is the Proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a Fund for a Fair Transition that allows regions and people to benefit from the funds of this Fund for the environmental, economic and other consequences of the transition to a climate neutral economy. In this context, it is essential that support from this fund must be conditional on the effective implementation of the transition process of a specific area to achieve a climate neutral economy, and it is crucial that Member States identify and justify the most affected areas to which support should then be focused. The three pillars are in line. The first pillar means grants and the remaining two pillars mean reimbursements; however, they relate to measures and everything else related to this transition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u284	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, too, Minister Chernač, for your answer. Today, I have received information that the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has commissioned this research from one of the companies you spoke about to verify the eligibility of the preparation of regional plans for Goriška, Gorenje and Koroška region with a view to addressing the measures and objectives set out in the Fund for a Fair Transition. Three industrial plants are exposed with the highest greenhouse gas intensity, namely Salonita Anhovo, the Acronia Jesenice or the Iron and Metal Ravne. Idrija and the heavy legacy of mercury was again ignored, it is said that this study does not include this project. As behind you is Mr. Minister, whom I also asked about this subject a year ago, I propose that this study, which MGRT has commissioned from one of the companies, extend to the problem of Idria and half a thousand years of mining. In the face of the destruction of the mercury mine, obviously no one in the country wants to deal seriously with the consequences of half a thousand-year-old mining, namely the extraction of mercury that the European Union withdrew from use in 2010, and on a global level, the Minamata Convention on Mercury has been ratified as an environmental issue of the global par excellence criterion. So, among other things, let me just say one thing, we don't even have a waste dump in Slovenia that's loaded with mercury, although Idrija or our area was the second largest producer of mercury and thus the world's polluter at all times. Thank you very much for your possible response.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u286	Thank you very much for this opportunity. The study concerns Gorenjska, Koroška and Goriška region. In the context of this study, it will be determined which area in this region is that of a stretching area or potential area for enlargement under the heading of this mechanism. Nothing else is required for this study, as it was commissioned when it was for the Sasavje region or Savinja-Shale region. And in the case of Zasavje there is a finding for all three municipalities, unfortunately not in the case of SASH. In the case of the Savinij-Shale region, this study found that potentially endangered areas which may participate from this title are one area of the three municipalities only. However, any other area connecting may participate in this transition from Fund 2 and Fund 3. That is why I have said that what the study will say depends on how and how this area will then be defined in the end. I believe that those who produce these things will review all relevant data and address this problem to the best extent possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Miha Kordish will ask the Minister of Defense of Magi a question. Matthew Tonin and Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravek Počvalšku. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, chairman. In one of the positions to the course of the Bled Oblast, your ministry stated that in connection with the shooting of the Cat in Bled, I quote, “in the medium term, the renovation and arrangement of the shooting range is envisaged for the possibility of different training of shootings”. The expansion of the shooting site, which is only one of the most well-known and visited places in Slovenia, is Bled, of course, a very sensitive matter. In particular, taking into account the context of the communication at the Ministry of Defence with Postojna Municipality or the local community associated with the training of the Slovenian Armed Forces at Poček. Nightly shooting with high calibres, low overflights of NATO's reactive hunting bombers, which prevent local residents and residents from sleeping, road closures, road congestion due to military convoys, non-payment of compensation for the use of building land, blackmail in connection with payments of co-financing in the past agreed and implemented projects, and so on, if I list only some of the controversial actions of the Ministry of Defence. And after all this at the other end of Slovenia, when we find information that the shooting should spread, we are of course concerned in Levica, especially because it is a place that is existentially linked to tourism. The inhabitants of the area also leap up. So I ask you the following questions: Was the expansion of the range and its scope, its purpose, and so on, presented and coordinated in any way with the local community? Why is this expansion even necessary? With a weapon of what caliber will be fired on an extended range, and how often? Are the shootings going to take place at night, during the tourist season and so on? All these things have to be taken into account. How will Morse inform the local population during the shootings? Who besides the Slovenian Army will use the shooting range? Will the imperial powers of the NATO Pact also be trained on it? How do you plan to ensure the safety of the local population, tourists, walkers and others who can be found near the shooting site? If I reach out again to the Poček case, which is less popular, there should be an interruption of exercises due to civilians in the area of training. The shooting site is also located in the immediate vicinity of natural values, next to the Sava Bohinjka river, so it is also a water-protection risk area in which protection of the water source must also be included. I want to know: How are you going to protect the ground and submerged waters on Cat? And finally, do you think it's normal for a world-renowned tourist attraction like Bled to spread a military range? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u290	Dear colleagues, good evening! The shooting and training site of the Slovenian Army is located near the town of Bled, about 2.5 km from the center of Bled and 3.5 km from the village of Bohinjska Bela. It's a shooting range that's already been used by the Yugoslav People's Army. The Slovenian Army archery has been using everything since independence and is defined as an exclusive use area for defence purposes. All land is landscaped and the area is 21.5 hectares. The Matskovec shooting and training site is designed for military training, shootings with infantry weapons of small calibre at distances up to 400 meters, camping and other military professional activities. The plans to update that archery do exist, but enlargement beyond the current area is not envisaged. When you talk about enlargement, your information is incorrect and not true. But he says we're going to update this shooting site. Modernising the training infrastructure, including shooting sites, is one of the priorities in updating our military infrastructure. The fact is, since their independence, they have been updated or built only two modern shooting sites with which the Slovenian Armed Forces have located, namely Mlake pri Vipava and Skril. The planned upgrade of the Cat Shooter will be carried out to establish a condition on the shooting site that will allow safe and technologically more modern shooting up to 400 metres away. And it's going to fire with a calibre of up to 12.7 millimeters. It's an infantry weapon. This update will reduce all external impacts of the surrounding population, while also allowing the Slovenian Army more appropriate training. And by the way, Member, let me say this, because you've given quite a bit of attention to the Permanent in your question. The dialogue with Postojna runs; I believe we are close to an agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Minister Rest, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u292	Dear Member, Mr. Miha Kordish, distinguished National Assembly! Thank you for asking me, too. In opening, I would like to say that the question of Mr Kordiša is a complex question. I would like to be more accurately predicted in order to allow me to provide the most appropriate information and to be able to respond in full. However, I will try to present the event in this part of the Municipality of Bled in terms of the competence of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. As regards the activities co-financed by our ministry under the authority of regional development, the content is quite something. Through the Agreement for the Development of the Regions, we currently co-finance the implementation of the Bled-Bohinjska Bistrica cycling project with a total value of €6 million. This is co-financed by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for more than €2 million, the Infrastructure Directorate for 3 million and the contributions of both municipalities for half a million euros. We also co-finance investment projects in Bled and Bohinj, as reported, in the amount of the law on the financing of municipalities, with a zero interest rate on certain grants and forms of grants. In calls for support for micro, small and medium-sized tourism companies to increase the material and energy efficiency of the problem area in 2018-2020, we co-financed the energy renovation of many tourist sites in the municipality of Bohinj. Within the framework of the Local Development Implementation Programme led by the Community, the Local Action Group (LAS), with the aim of implementing the comprehensive and balanced development of local areas following the “bottom-up” approach to the Municipality of Bled and Bohinj, they participate as partners in the projects. Because of the limitations, I will count only a few projects in this area. The Municipality of Bled and Bohinj are in themselves a tourist primary category. Of course, the whole area of both places is not only touristic, there are a number of activities that need to find an appropriate balance between them. I am convinced that this is a goal that can be achieved by appropriate relations and communication between stakeholders on the issue of the shooting site at Bohinjska Bela and its placement in the long-term development of the Bled municipality and the tourism of Bohinj. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u294	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I don't want to work a problem where there's no problem. My question is mainly preventive because we know what history the Ministry of Defence has with the municipality of Postojna, or more precisely with the Poček training centre, where the 20-year situation with which the Ministry of Defence forces the municipality threatens water resources and so on. And, of course, I'm going to cut my ears when information comes to me that, as Minister Tonin said, it's supposed to be spreading, or, as Minister Tonin said, it's updating the shooting site across the country. I will repeat some questions that have remained unanswered or only partially answered. How is communication with the local community in relation to this modernisation, not enlargement, but merely modernisation of this archery? It was partly understood that this communication may not even be so important or even necessary because there is an area that is already aloof for military purposes. I'm also interested in the use of this shooting range. Is this a shooting site that is only in use and will be in the service of the Slovenian Army, or is training also envisaged for any other forces of the NATO Pact? How do you plan to ensure the safety of the local population, including tourists, hikers, given that we are talking about tourist destinations? It's Poch's case again. There is a need to stop the exercise due to civilians in the area of training, and this is a much less popular area. And after all, I'm worried about protecting the ground and submerged waters on Cat. Again, not after the necessity of the activities to be carried out there, this is the fact that it is a shooting; but since Morse has for many years avoided in all ways adopting the State Spatial Plan for Poček in a way that would also include the protection of water resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Minister Tonin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u296	Dear Member, once again; dialogue with Permanently running. I believe we will be able to reach an agreement by the end of the year. It is in the interests of the Ministry of Defence that the inhabitants of Postojna drink clean water and reduce the impact of defence there to the minimum of what can be done. And that's where the talks are going. And once again, as far as the Cat Shooter is concerned, it's been there for years. I don't know any complaints from the local population or municipalities. But it may also happen here, as elsewhere, that some politically motivated initiatives have begun to trouble you. In short, so far there has been no problem with this shooting. Another matter that you're exposing; it's not going to be about spreading the gunfire, it's going to be about rebuilding the firing range. And any shooting we've recovered so far has helped improve the conditions. There has been noise reduction since certain other anti-group obstacles and similar things are also installed, so that this restoration will improve the conditions of operation of this gunfire up there and also reduce the impact on the local population. However, it is used for infantry weapons and on this site they are trained in particular or will be trained in particular by soldiers from Bohinjska Bela and Kranj. In the area of this shooting and on this shooting we also host annual military camps where young people are trained for military skills in this area. However, if another allied army is trained on this shooting site, it depends on the annual program of exercises we receive in the Government; and you will be familiar with them in advance anyway. Today, however, I cannot tell you that there will certainly be no other allied soldier on this shooting and that it will be used exclusively for the purposes of the Slovenian Army, because this depends on the programme of our cooperation and on the exercises we have. And I think you can be absolutely calm that this thing will be done in the way it has to be. However, what a professionally decorated shooting range looks like, and I invite you to attend once as a member of the Defence Committee and see a shooting range in Skril or a shooting range in Vipava; and you will see if you are standing a mile away, these influences are already very reduced, and here is a settlement over 2.5 kilometers away. I do not see any difficulty in having any impact on the development of tourism or other activities in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish? No, you don't want procedural. Then let's move on. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Simonovic, Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u298	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Nice greetings to all present! A good year ago, I asked the former Minister of Environment and Space about the constitutional right to drinking water for the inhabitants of Slovenia. Let me just summarize; on 25 June 2019, there was a railway accident in Hrastovje, where more kerosene flowed from tanks to the ground. The accident occurred in another water protection area of the Rižana River, which is the main water source for drinking water supply in all four coastal municipalities, where there are just under 90,000 inhabitants. During the summer months, this number is increased by an additional 30 000 due to tourism. This is an extremely burdened water source, especially in the summers when the need for drinking water is so much greater. Despite promises and the work of the former Minister, the story of finding an alternative and permanent water source for the people of Slovenia has not yet been completed. After reviewing all previous studies to determine the strategic water source, the Ministry of Environment and Space decided not to re-analyse all the water resources already considered. According to the information available to us, on the basis of the assessment of the variants of the 2006 study, the Ministry continued its activities to prepare and implement the water source project by accumulating Suhorica in the Brkinov area. As we are aware, this solution was opposed by the Civil Initiative Keep the Brkina, as they would have estimated that it would have a negative impact both on the Scottish Cave Regional Park and on the biosphere of the Kras area. Dear Minister, it is true that the railway accident in Hrastovje has not contaminated the water source, but it is now valid to follow the Slovenian proverb – It is too late to ring the bell. We must make every effort to provide drinking water to all the inhabitants of Slovenia and also to the tourists who will visit us. The absence of a water source can mean that due to the technological capacity of water resources to buy water, either from the water supply of Kraška or from Croatia, Istria, which has a capacity of less than 200 litres per second, the need is up to 450 litres per second. I'm sorry. I'm out of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u299	Thank you so much for that first part. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u300	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. I think it's important because there is also some public controversy about this. I think that the constitutional commitment to the right to healthy drinking water is not only a letter on paper, but must also become a enforceable right in reality. When I took over the Ministry of Environment and Space, we had two choices – or after twenty years of various studies we order another study and again look for variants, evaluate variants and work variants for variants and work studies; or based on studies that have been done, based on the evaluation of all variants that have been made, we choose the most advantageous and also the most professionally acceptable and start putting into space. I have chosen the latter option because I am a man of action, not studying, studying and preparing new professional bases and rewriting documents that cost millions of euros. Constitutional law remains unrespected and people in Slovenia remain without drinking water, in fact they are dependent on the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. Therefore, on 21 October we signed a contract for the production of project spatial and investment documentation up to the stage of the documentation for the acquisition of the building permit for the investment project The provision of drinking water for the population of Slovenia's Istrian and karst ice. This documentation will not only address the water supply of Slovenia's Istria, but will also provide a backup water source for the karst hinterland or for the existing three water systems in this area. With this contract, we are embarking on a major project aimed at obtaining a construction permit after 24 months for the water source for the supply of Slovenian Istria and the Krajska hinterland. This is said to be October 2022 – a building permit. After reviewing all previous studies to determine the strategic water source, we decided not to start this analysis again, and on the basis of the assessment of the variants of the 2006 study – here I also have a summary of this study – we decided to carry out a long-term strategic water resource project with accumulation on the Suhorica River as the optimal option in the preparation of the State Spatial Plan. This project is extensive, normal. Tell me, which big project doesn't have opponents. By the way, this part of Brkinov I went to see for myself, I was on the ground, there were experts from our ministry on the ground. I do not have any documentation to challenge the environmental acceptability of this project in any way. More than that, it would in any way define a negative impact on the Scottish caves. On the contrary, we have Unesc's document saying that this project is acceptable to this Unesco natural heritage. I would also like to stress that the process of preparing the State Spatial Plan will also be an opportunity for an expert exchange of views to be an opportunity for the public opinion of all stakeholders, namely the local population, municipalities and NGOs. And this will be a field where we decide whether or not the project is acceptable in terms of environmental impacts. And I think this is the only way to get a new stable long-term water source for Slovenian Istria and at the same time a backup water source for the karst ice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u301	Thank you very much. Mr. Members, would you like to complete your response? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u302	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary. In accordance with Rule 240 of the Rules of Procedure, questions were raised in writing, so that you have already answered some of my questions. But I'm going to use this additional explanation to ask: How far are we with the final solution to providing this additional resource? Have you put the search for other potential water sources on the sidelines? How will you solve the problem if the pollution of the primary water source occurs, what you yourself said? We know that the technological capacity to buy water, either from Crassus or from Istria, is up to 200 litres per second. The population of Slovenian Istria in the peak of the season needs up to 450 litres per second. And if there's another possibility, what's the timeline? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u303	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u304	Regarding the timing of this project, I said that on 21 October, the Treaty was signed, 21 October 2020. And on 21 October 2022, documentation will be prepared to obtain a building permit, together with the right to build in tango areas. Then it will be possible to plant the first shovel. However, during this two-year period an important professional discussion and task will be held, this is an environmental impact assessment, responding to all the questions you have raised. By the way, she's already a security guard for the Scottish caves. As I have pointed out and once again, I would like to invite you, honourable Member and anyone from the public, to come to the Ministry, to give him an overview of the opinion of Unesco regarding their assessment of the impact on the natural heritage of this work. This will all happen again during this period. All these environmental impacts will be re-evaluated through today's eyes, because these are consents and opinions, say, from ten years ago or more ago; and of course they will provide sufficient drinking water to Slovenia Istria. What this will technically look like is a relatively simple matter. On this watercourse Suhorica, but also on the lower part of the watercourse Padež, will create a large barrier or on the upper side of the barrier a greater accumulation, which will be waterproof, meaning that the water that will accumulate there will not penetrate the underground, because otherwise it is useless to work the accumulation. Raw water, which will be taken to the watershed, where it will also be further processed to be suitable and will be potable, will only take the middle layer of this accumulation. The top layer, which is inadequate because of leaves and others, and the bottom layer, which is also inappropriate due to sediments, will not be used for water supply or for raw water, which will be the basis for the conversion of this water into drinking water. I do not know what reserve this water source could thus be offered, but this water source will provide a reserve for the other three water pipelines and will provide a secondary secondary water source for the decommissioning of existing water lines in the Illyrian Bistro area and other areas in the karst hinterland.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Let's keep asking questions. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Infrastructure Mr Jernej Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u306	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vrtovec, Minister of Infrastructure! We all know that the covida epidemic has gone a long way into our lives; and it has stopped them. It stopped them in a way that stopped the economy, that it stopped the traffic, that it actually reached out to all times of our lives, and that's because it's still a threat to our health. And one of the measures that followed in terms of reducing the consequences of the spread of the epidemic was also the restriction on movement to the municipality of permanent residence. And this measure also had consequences for the use of Slovenian roads, which is also known from the figures on the number of traffic, the quantity of excise duty collected from the sale of motor fuels and, finally, the quantity of wine sold for use by Slovenian motorways and fast roads. And this is proof that the Ministry's action to limit movement has also been very effective. And my question in this light is about the use of transport infrastructure. We must be aware that at the time of the new calendar year, most citizens buy an annual vineyard and pay a road tax when they register. I am interested in the fact that the citizens of the road were unable to use them because of these restrictions: Does the government or the ministry consider extending the validity of vignettes and road taxes in a proportionate proportion for the duration of the ban? I would also like to show here one of the pre-election flyers of the Prime Minister, who also suggested that blames in Slovenia are too expensive compared to neighbouring countries. And I also understand this 2018 tweet in this sense, in this respect, that it is being pursued that, if something is not to be used or cannot be used, this is also taken into account in the price or extension of validity for a proportionate part of the time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u307	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u308	First of all, thank you very much for the question. You are not the first to address this issue with regard to guilt and road taxes, in particular as regards the extension of the vignette. We've already made thorough calculations. You need to know that in Dars this year almost 100 million euros in losses from the underselling of vineyards or minuses in the sale of vineyards compared to last year; as well as for trucks or trucks, about 100 million euros in losses have been raised compared to last year's. We at the Ministry have already addressed this issue in the past few weeks. We have found that if we want to get this relationship between the desire to have a new fast road Velenje–Slovenia Gradec and continue towards Dravograd and that it costs so much and so much 100 million euros, on the other hand, we have a loss of 100 million euros due to the lower consumption of motorways by trucks and users of vineyards, that is, personal vehicles, we need to figure out where we can go. This is a key question where we can go, that Dars will still have enough money for the projects. On the one hand in the National Assembly we accept projects for Dars, on the other hand we say – okay. I agree with you, users of highways, those who have paid for vineyards, cannot to a certain extent drive on the highway and are certainly disadvantaged because during the weekend you cannot go from the congregation to the municipality on the highway compared to one month ago. But Dars and I are discussing this, and we're talking. We have also put records in the media about the debate. With regard to the payment of the tolls we make when registering, the utility, let me say that there is an even more complex matter because it goes directly into the country's budget. On the one hand, the question is whether the local road from village to village is within the congregation, where an individual can move, a matter of state road. Was he not to move, or was he able to move? He was able to move, even on that road that the state maintains. But if you are suggesting lowering the toll here, then you must be aware that in the next year there will also be less money in the budget at the expense of, say, certain roads in your constituency that will not be asphalted. I agree, however, in particular, with regard to wines, that this debate and this conversation must be guided in order to try to resolve the situation somehow. We will certainly also solve it with a digital e-vignette, which I think will be much more practical for users. I'm not talking about it being cheaper, I can talk about it later, but it will certainly be more practical. On the one hand, I am aware, and if I were a member of the opposition, I think I would be asking the same questions as you; on the other hand, you know that it is not so easy to replace EUR 100 million less in the Dars budget. This is one quarter of this part of the 3rd development axis that we are now talking about. That's not a bit of money. And we would have come up with an extra delay, not just this year's delay, but that would have been a delay for next year. If we go three months behind bars this year, then the annual vignette must be cheaper for next year. I'm not talking about not being cheaper when it's e-wine. It is likely that it will be cheaper when costs are reduced, but as far as it is concerned, discussions are still under way. Dars and I are talking about how we can come to this delay, how we can repay this to people, because they have paid the price of wine, but they cannot use it fully, I agree with you absolutely; but in this way, to be as small a manna as possible in the construction of highways and in the restoration of motorways. No one wants this to happen, then all people, for example, on the 3rd developmental axis, will be deprived of it. This is the subject of discussion, so I can answer these questions easily.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u310	Thank you very much. That's right. Thank you for that comprehensive answer. As I understand you, Darsa's income has fallen by 100 million euros. Thus, not that it has a loss of EUR 100 million, but that it is a lower income from collected tolls from passenger and freight vehicles. This also means that less traffic and less damage were caused on the Slovenian motorway network. When we talk about someone paying something, that users paid something, and then we don't get services because of the higher power, I think the country should be the one who should automatically go to the citizen as the weaker one on this side. I am also talking about Dars, especially since he has contributed about 150 million euros in business profits each year in recent years; and this year's revenue outage should not be the cause of his downturn or financial threat to his business. The fact is, if someone pays something and can't get it, more understandablely, as it is now in the case of fitness or annual membership fees. When a person pays a lump sum, the legal experts are instructed not to charge either rent or membership for either one proportionate part of that period. And I think that in this direction you should think automatically in the field of vinjets and in the field of road taxes. Not that there are now excuses here that there is no money for not having money for threatening Slovenian projects. It's simple; we paid people something and we couldn't use it. At the very least, the country should go across the road in order to extend the validity of what we have paid for this period when we have not been able to use it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u312	Thank you. Dars ensured the utility of motorways during this period. Is it or isn't it? Yes, it is. Dars provided this and the motorways were operational, Dars could not decide whether or not someone had used them. They had them at their disposal and made them available. People still went to work. That's what we're talking about. I'm not saying that what your wish is when you ask the question is based on all the journalistic questions you're in line for, in my opinion, you just missed that time. We replied to all the others that we were having a discussion about this. Once again, EUR 100 million is almost one quarter of what we are talking about, Slovenia Gradec-Velenje. That's it, that's not a little money. You're just saying, let's pay it back flat. That's not what this is about. The point is that when we accept guarantees in this House, then all the shouting and screaming, where something is paid, where it is not paid. In Novi Slovenije we confirmed these guarantees, including for the 3rd development axis. This is also being discussed with Dars. Last week, I got the perfect calculations of what the capacity is. Let me tell you, it's not just an e-wine, it's also a truck, which is much smaller than it was last year. You know we get more than 50% in Darsa's budget with trucks. Not at the expense of us, the users of the vineyards, but at the expense of the trucks we've just told them they can't get ahead of themselves, but they're very angry. But things aren't easy for Dars, either. So let's say this goes on for another year, what's the minus, what's the loss compared to last year's? A lot. In this regard, the solution will come within about fourteen days. I believe Dars and I will also ensure the sustainability of Dars and the vinite system. I'm glad we're moving on to the e-wine. We have also promised people this and it will be much easier – thanks also for supporting the entire opposition, including the Left – that e-vignette is a living thing and will go on and we will have it next year. However, let me say that with regard to the use of any compensation in terms of extension, Dars will also inform the public in a short time how and what are the real situations. It's not as simple a thing as it seems at first sight. You know, we also have the 3rd development axis — the southern part. Right now, the Gorjanci tunnel is being designed. Next month you'll have a white-screen ipsilon in Parliament to give to Dars. It costs a few hundred million euros again. But no one wonders who's going to finance this. But finally next month, Mrs Violeta Tomić, you come from these places, the White Landscape in the project. That's money, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u313	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u314	That's it. I'd like to make a procedural proposal. The topic is very important, and there are many issues, so I want this to be discussed at one of the future meetings. In Slovenia we have data on how much traffic has fallen. I think it's only necessary to give Darsa or the Ministry officials clear instructions as to what they have to do. You yourself have made it clear that the entire Slovenian highway crossing must not be overtaken by trucks all day, and you have shown determination and you have shown the way to do so. As your predecessor, our president has also given clear instructions to officials that pensioners over 65 years of age should be provided free of charge in cross-border passenger transport, and everyone said that they were not going. And now it turns out he's going. We have over 160,000 new users on public passenger traffic, and we will also soon witness that, with your determination on Slovenian highways, trucks will no longer get ahead of each other. I ask that we discuss this very important topic, the way in which services are paid justly, at one of the future meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Violeta Tomic will ask the Minister of Justice of the Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u316	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Madam Minister, I have listened attentively to the question raised by colleague Tina Heferle. And I listened even more carefully to your answers. Since my question concerns the same subject, I will start at the other end. You reminded us that today is a world day of tolerance, so I congratulate everyone here in the hall and all who accompany us on the world day of tolerance — tolerance, which is greatly threatened on the entire earth at this time. In this regard, I wonder, do you really think that your infinite tolerance for intolerance is a sign of your patience?Oh, my God! For as far as I can remember, you have sworn here in this Chamber to work for all citizens and citizens. And what I'm truly afraid of is that you really agree with this impatience, because otherwise you would have called, because your conscience would not have allowed you to remain silent. But you will be recorded in history as the Minister of Justice, who has only been silent, while they have broken our rule of law and trampled on our constitutional order. Now let me touch in particular the appointment of state prosecutors. The U.S. Attorney's Office is, we know, undernourished. He is lagging behind, but the government, particularly the Janševa SDS, is in a very perfidious way exerting political pressure on the prosecution, on the personnel procedures, on the appointment and promotion of prosecutors, in whom it attempts to discipline those prosecutors who in the past did not make decisions in accordance with the wishes of the SDS party. We both know that although the prosecution does not belong to the judiciary but to the executive branch, it is even more imperative that this state authority enjoys the highest degree of independence and independence. The ruling coalition has recently adopted an amendment to the State Prosecutor's Act, which reduces the autonomy of state prosecutors. The legislation provides that the Government only approves the proposals for the appointment and promotion of prosecutors prepared by the State Prosecutor's Council, which is the expert body. This work was done a while ago, and as a justice minister, he gave you a positive opinion on the twelve candidates; you say you have received fourteen proposals already in August and September. You agreed to that, and then the appointment got stuck with the government. I want to know: Since the approval of the new prosecutors in the government should be merely a formality because they were proposed by your ministry, how do you view the government, which part of you, selecting the proposals of the Ministry of Justice and the State Prosecutor's Council? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u318	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Member, welcome and thank you for your question. So you think tolerance means agreeing with intolerance. I think it is more important for a man to judge by his actions, not by his own words. So the statement that the State's Attorney's Office or the Court of Justice is lagging behind is not true. The Public Prosecutor's Office is very good at managing the case, with more than 100 % of it being handled at the annual level. The problem they also have in line with the European Commission's findings, i.e. the rule of law report, is the longevity of procedures in the financial field and in the area of investigation of banking crime; this is not related to the number of state prosecutors, but there are many other factors that affect the longevity of these proceedings. Likewise, in the courts, the systemic problem is no longer lagging behind, and international reports also point out, and the courts themselves stress this, i.e. in these most demanding crimes. Three appointments to the government, as you say, is a formality. I am asking questions about the meaning of such a formality. This is the formality you have in the National Assembly, which means the appointment of judges. And I wonder what this is all about and what it's all about. That is why we are also preparing to amend legislation where such a formality would no longer be necessary. The inadequacy of the legislation in force is that neither the Government nor the Council of State lays down a time limit within which it must decide. How do I feel about the fact that the material is not classified? I am looking at what I have said before and what I have done — three times we have hurled the matter into the government’s meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u320	Thank you very much. Minister, the Government did not take into account the State Prosecutor's Council's proposals in half of the cases and, inter alia, did not appoint a candidate working on the anti-corruption commission. The progress of the prosecutor was also halted, who rejected the indictment in which John Janša claimed that the password “death of Janshism” meant a threat of death. And we also understand from the media that you think you can only kill something alive. So you don't agree with this decision of this state's attorney. And all these moves clearly show a tendency for politics to subject itself to this repressive body and to persecute or not to prosecute people according to government wishes rather than in accordance with the objective criteria set out in the legislation. The government of Janez Janša, whose part of you as justice minister, is exerting increasing pressure on the prosecution; and we both know that. Candidates waiting for appointments have gone through the long-standing and very precise professional procedures for assessing the appropriateness laid down in the State Prosecutor's Office Act. On what criteria and powers can the government even assess the proposed candidates? And what will you do to protect your department and prevent the breakdown of the rule of law? For, as we see, we are facing complete absurdity, with a criminal policy without precedent, when, above all, the internal minister changes the Penal Code, threatens with disproportionately high penalties, even after 15 thousand euros, I ask you kindly, for fully legitimate protests against this government when we face sexism, hatred that only grows hate speech. We are witnessing attacks on women's reproductive rights, the repatriation of society, human rights violations in all areas, from public to private; you remain silent. What will you do to benefit all citizens? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u321	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u322	Thank you. What can I do on the government? The government, as I said, has no time to make a decision. What we can continue to do at the Ministry of Justice is to amend legislation that currently does not have this deadline. He has no legal remedy, no minister, no one else, so he has no legal interest. So what can the government do here? Yes, the government can confirm, but it can refuse. It is a matter of deciding in the administrative procedure, because this is a public tender on the basis of which an individual is named. In the event of confirmation, the Government means that it appoints; however, in the event that it does not agree, a decision issued or prepared by the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for administrative matters and appointments should be issued and decided by the Government. So it's not just a formality, but it's really a judgment, but it's a professional element that needs to be judged. This is about people who have been employed there, or someone who has judged in this way, especially when someone is employed, you read when you read the opinion of the State Prosecutor's Office and become aware of it as a minister. But as someone made their decision, and I hear here today, I'm not aware of it, I've already said it before. We know what the powers of the Minister of Justice are, are written in the Law on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Justice may give an opinion to others, says outside his department, gives an opinion and may or may not agree with what other authorities are doing. It's the Ministry of Justice's jurisdiction. But how many times, as Minister of Justice, do I comment or otherwise vote, but I am sure that you are not familiar. That's why I initially said that it's one thing to judge a man by his words, another to judge a man by his actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u323	Thank you very much. Madam Members, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u324	Dear Minister, it is one thing to judge a man by his actions, one by one. We didn't hear the words, we didn't see the actions. While you are silent as the district minister, there are a number of indirect and direct pressures on the part of the ruling policy; and it is not only someone who is winking. This is what all citizens and citizens see. And you are responsible and will also be recorded in the history of Slovenia as the Minister of Government, who has destroyed the rule of law as much as you agree with me or not. And also by amending the penal legislation by which the Government introduces inappropriately short deadlines for the filing of the indictment, prosecutors will be prevented from performing quality work in the most difficult cases of economic crime, corruption and abuse of the situation in which it is very often involving politicians and their friends. You're also saying that you condemn every political account, that's what you said to your colleague earlier. What do you do when you meet with political accounting? Of course, there is a policy on the functioning of the Government, but the results, as you say – not words, but actions, show us a picture that is truly worrying for most citizens and citizens in this Slovenia. We're worried. Not only are we concerned, there is too much fear of where the state goes when the interior minister imposes on us what penalties it will give when citizens pay penalties for eating a sandwich or a burek. Where and where did we come from?Oh, my God! You are the guardian who should ensure that the state remains a legal and constitutional democracy. I therefore propose, of course, that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, a discussion be held on this subject, which is more than necessary. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u325	Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to the second round of questions from Members and Members of Parliament. Jože Lenart has the floor to ask the Minister for Finance mags a question. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u326	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, I am still concerned about the steep rise in public debt, and this is increasingly so, as we are following ever worse forecasts of economic growth. Yes, I understand that at the time of the epidemic and the measures that plague the economy and the economy, we are witnessing lower incomes in the state, health, pension and cash municipalities. It is clear to me that we need to implement targeted measures to help a population that is out of work and income, that we need to help the economy, including public institutions and all others who are not provided with income due to the epidemic. Above all, it is clear to me that in this situation we must strengthen the health care that expected the epidemic to be fed both with the necessary equipment and, of course, with human resources. Indirectly, there is also the issue of putting more work on the table, as well as putting health risks on the table and elsewhere. However, the Secretary-General, the budget for 2020, 2021 foresees covid expenditure and in 2022 covid expenditure is no longer foreseen. In 2022, on the basis of a forecast, you are planning revenue already in a significantly higher GDP achieved, which is 3.5 billion higher for good than in 2019. So I wonder why, even in 2022, such a deficit. Revenue is planned to be higher than was achieved in 2019 and expenditure is expected to be higher for all ministries. There is a significant increase in investments that should be covered, according to your reasons, by funds from the European Union funds amounting to as much as 12 billion over the next seven years; probably also investments to arm the military. So what's the big deal? Is it an unbalanced budget where expenditure does not cover revenue? Of course, because you have made it clear several times that everyone has received more in these budgets. You've set the counter significantly higher. What about the income, why don't they follow them? With such a counter, it is clear that the budget deficit will follow Slovenia for years, until the economy does not reach its expenditure. You increase your debt from 31 billion in 2019 to 42 billion in 2022 in three years if the budget documents are realistically put in place. Dear Minister: When and how will this public debt be repaid? Where is your debt recovery projection in the budget documents? Is it possible that you are delegating this challenging task to another government, or second generation? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u328	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. Where is your plan in the budget documents for repayment of the debt and where your plan is in the budget documents for reducing the deficit, I kind of took it. Budget documents have their legality and are annual. It is said that we are talking about annual budgets. We do not normally show in these annual budgets, nor has any government shown any developments in the medium term. We are talking about a budget memorandum, where it is also already mentioned how the deficit or what the government is thinking about the deficit. If we take a budget memo along with it, then there are extensions to how this deficit will be reduced. You say there is still a deficit in 2022, but there is no covid costs or expenses. Yes, of course, because this deficit cannot be covered in one year. This is absolutely inevitable. If we did, we could actually reduce expenditure to such a level that it would be unbearable. However, this deficit in 2022 is lower than in 2021 and smaller than in 2020, and this is significantly smaller. And it's also because of the higher revenues that are planned. But that I am now precise and even what is in line with the Fiscal Rule Act; in accordance with Article 12 of the Fiscal Rule Act, the State must make a plan to bring public finances into what is called a normal state, where income will be equal to expenditure or income, even better than expenditure. In short, to comply with the fiscal rule; and this must be submitted to the Fiscal Council. It must also specify the period within which the revenue and expenditure will be equal or where the surplus or surplus of the State budget and public finances will be equal. And that's what the government will do. And already, during this period or in this macroeconomic scenario, which is also part of the budget documents, it has already indicated for the period. Then the Fiscal Council must also agree, but first it will do so to the Fiscal Council, because it is also legally binding, but of course after the crisis has ended, or after being able to determine how much of this deficit actually is. There are no problems here, and the government has already announced and said so. In line with public debt and so on, the government is also planning what the public debt will be. Public debt will fall from 2020 when 82.4 is announced, in 2021 to 80.9 in 2022 to 79.3. This has already been announced in these documents, and for years to come, he carefully plans what the debt recovery obligations are, and he carefully plans what the interest is. Here I have to say that interest is declining, which in other words means that we are paying less and less interest, that is also evident. And we plan this debt in a way that after years we will pay in such a way that stability, the liquidity of the state in relation to public finances, will not be compromised. In short, we do everything as planned and do everything in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor to explain the request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u330	Dear Minister, I keep asking you about the nominal debt, which we see is only increasing over the years and it's not planned to go down because it can't, because it's deficits. That's what I'm talking about. The last debt from Austro-Hungarian times was paid only by Slovenia in this millennium. At the time of the adoption of the budgets for 2019, 2020, the then Minister of Finance, Dr. Andrej Bertoncelj, warned us about this. If the master on the farm owes his economy all the time and carries it on to the young master, the question is whether the young master will take it, whether he would rather not decide and go looking for better conditions for other people's lives. This is also the case in Slovenia. Young people wonder whether, in the face of such a management, a government policy that does not guarantee the right future brings uncertainty and is worth insisting on, if the world is so wide and brings completely different challenges. You know, the well-respected minister and the whole government, young people are educated, viewed, they have all the information. And when accompanied by this non-transparent diversion, already childish deception, strife, prosecution and disrespect even the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which breaks democracy, it is highly likely that young people and many people will also leave our beautiful country in the future and create where they value and respect it. Those who remain are silently observing the policies that decide on their behalf and fight the battle of domination between the two sides and more kindergartens. And the new bank holes and public debt are growing, your honorary minister. I therefore ask you once again for a concrete answer: Where is your public debt recovery projection so that we and our explorers will know where we are and what awaits us? When are we gonna start making nominal returns, like renting me a bank loan in person?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you have the floor to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u332	Thank you very much for the additional question, Mr. Lenart. With what you've said, I can't agree. From the fact that you said it was imprudentness, to the fact that you said it was unconstitutional. Unconstitutionality is determined by the Constitutional Court, nobody else in my personal opinion. I think it's a few things I don't agree with. We will also begin to return nominally when the situation is such that economic growth is such that we can cover all the necessary expenditure. But now, with everything you've said, I'd like to say the following. This debt arises because we save people's health and lives. This debt does not arise because the state itself would spend more time on what is related to the epidemic. And with this debt we save people's lives and health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have the floor for a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u334	Yeah, I guess we're on our own for a little bit. I also stressed that I am aware of the part about health care. Of course, much more is needed at this time of crisis. And we keep this in mind, so this debt is growing as rapidly as it grows. Especially in the interests of young people, in the well-being of the state of Slovenia, which we all appreciate so much, left and right, since 1989 and 1991, for these reasons I have been making a request for a general discussion at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly to monitor this more closely and to pay attention to where we are going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u335	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November 2020, in the framework of the votes. Mag. Bojana Muršič will ask Health Minister Tomaž Gantar a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u336	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Honorable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! This year is a very special year, especially in the field of health systems. Because of the coronavirus, the health system in Slovenia and elsewhere in the world is a major test, as we all know. It deals with the treatment of difficult patients due to covid-19 on the one hand, and on the other hand people still get sick or get sick with already known diseases; and with medicines and other medical devices, we relieve ourselves of the difficulties that individual diseases bring. In view of the re-closure of countries, many ask whether access to medicines will be hampered as a result of the increasingly serious situation associated with the coronavirus. They are concerned that Slovenia will also face a shortage of medicines, that because of the difficult distribution of generic medicines from Indian producer countries, or because of the failure to pay for medicines, as we read a few days ago for neighbouring Croatia, there will be a shortage of medicines. Among other things, people are concerned that they will receive only one month’s treatment for three months at a time and will have to go to pharmacies every month and wait in front of them in long columns. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Will the State provide sufficient medicines and medical devices? Is there enough stock in the Republic of Slovenia? What is the supply of medicines and medical devices in Slovenia? Will the distribution of medicinal products and access to medicines possibly be limited when anti-korona measures are tightened? Thanks for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u337	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u338	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Mrs. Mursic, the rest are present! As far as stocks and total quantities or supplies of medicines are concerned, neither the neighbouring countries nor the competent authorities in our country have announced any or no supply or supply of these medicinal products. In fact, in spring there were some problems, mainly due to the disruption of production or the poor supply of substances produced in India and China. Later this calmed down or provided this substance, and the European Union is no longer having these problems, and these disorders are no longer. Also in our manufacturers, wholesalers, pharmacies, not least the competent ones, including the Public Medicines and Medical Devices Agency, there are no announced problems in providing not only emergency covido treatments, but also with everyone else, where there were some restrictions in the spring. With regard to the closure of the border, I must say that, of course, the current policy of Europe is slightly different from that of the first wave. No changes have been announced from this address either, and I believe that this will not happen either. We haven't talked about prescribing drugs in just one month, because we don't really see the reason why we should. Moreover, this would be an additional burden for doctors and, of course, for patients who should be re-ordered. I expect that, like with protective equipment and other medical devices, we should not have any problems in the next period. If any disturbances or obstacles were to be announced anywhere outside of Slovenia, of course we will try to obtain sufficient quantities first, but I do not think there is time for this at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u339	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Madam Members, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for your answer. I'm glad you're optimistic about this place, and I hope all these problems don't really happen. I mentioned, as you yourself have already stated, that the Director of the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices in Spring stated that in the event of an increase or a longer epidemic, provision of certain medicines could occur. The call was also made to physicians to determine how the list of medicines should be reduced, which was a major problem for doctors who would be taking the medicine. Since I have information that the ministries of health of neighbouring countries have already reserved the supply of medical devices, equipment and medicines for the whole year ahead, this information is a matter of great concern. That's why I want to know: Where are we on this in Slovenia? Are we so agreed with other pharmacies abroad that this will not really happen? Do you think we are self-sustained enough in Slovenia? I personally doubt that this is the case, so I really hope that your words will indeed hold that at least next year there will be no problem. Does this information indicate that the other ministries of health have already been agreed one year ahead with other pharmaceutical companies and have purchased these supplies of medicines, supplies and other equipment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u341	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u342	Thank you very much. I do not have this information from my fellow health ministers, with whom we occasionally speak, that we should agree in advance on the supply of medicines for a year. I will, of course, take another look at this point. On the other hand, we need to know that given the current second wave, it is very difficult to predict or not know what is really going to happen in the future. The market for these drugs, which really aren't much, because the real cure for covid, we know it isn't. Thus, it is more about the use of substances that relieve the symptoms, called remdesivir and dexamethasone, here we also have a manufacturer. That's not how I believe it should be in this area. Indeed, in the spring time, we set certain restrictions on consumption and restricted prescriptions, and I think that azithromycin was, but I don't know where it was also mentioned as one of the medicines used at the time for treated covids, and that it would not be used for different purposes. Once again, all in our country, and above all, we do not have any sign or information that we should react in advance, either at a higher level with other countries, in order to do so. But of course, I'll check to see if this statement holds. However, it would be almost surprising to me that someone would now agree in advance for a year now, at least in general for the medicines we use in general, I do not know, in the treatment of other diseases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u343	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Boštjan Koražija will ask the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, Mr Janez Cigler the King. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u344	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. During the last period, the Slovenians stepped together and helped Vanja and Vidu from Ptuj; it is said, the mother and son of Vanja, whom I also know personally. In fact, she is a child with special needs, and unfortunately they were just before she stayed on the road or without a roof over her head. As we have already said, it is fortunate that the Slovenians came together, gathered this money so that they could buy that debt and stay in this house. We also have another case for which action is under way – for 63-year-old single father and his 17-year-old son, who live in a rental apartment of the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and have been unable to pay rent for some time. And my wife and mom died a year ago. The state fund is owed EUR 6 000 46, which cannot be repaid, because the total monthly income is €700, and that is only if we take into account the son's scholarship. How many tenants will find themselves in the same situation due to the inability to pay rent due to these anti-korona measures is another issue. Unfortunately, I need to find out and fix your ministry a little bit. Despite the tightening of this social picture in the second wave of the epidemic, your ministry has failed in the sixth antikoronic package to protect the weak from the jobs, says families with children, especially children with special needs. Are we really going to let people in this crisis lose their roof over their heads, or are we going to let people lose their income, allowing the families of those with minors and disabled children, such as Ptuj? I hope not. On you, Mr Minister, I hope that you will also act in this anti-Korona package of 6 and try to resolve the issue of whether or not the operations at this time of the Coronavirus epidemic will stop. Now I'm asking you: Do you intend to propose changes, following an emergency procedure, to prevent the posting of tenants during the epidemic? Why did you not take into account the proposal of the Levica Group that, during the epidemic, the work should be easily banned and the rent paid temporarily frozen? We also suggested this to you at the Ministry, unfortunately we didn't get any answers. How is it even possible to borrow from state funds’ apartments, even when it comes to families with minors, schoolchildren, or disabled children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u345	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u346	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President, thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador Korazi! With regard to the competence of the Ministry of Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities, I answer that persons threatened with employment may, of course, be entitled to financial social assistance and exceptional financial social assistance, as well as social security services intended to address social distress and problems, in order to address the situation of material danger. Various services are: first social assistance, personal assistance, assistance to the family. With a view to preventing the so-called social execution of immovable property, when it comes to a small debt, we have already had such cases, and its payment to the debtor, with the assistance of relatives, neighbours, humanitarian organisations or other realistically manageable, would be a novelty of the social enforcement procedure, in accordance with the amendment of the Law on Enforcement and Insurance, provides for an obligation for the courts to inform the debtor's residence or residence in which the debtor lives before the enforcement procedure, and for debt payments which are clearly disproportionate in relation to the property value determined, CSDs. Therefore, there is an obligation for the courts to notify the Centre for Social Work before or during the execution process. The Centre for Social Work should, after having been notified, start by carrying out tasks entrusted to it as public powers, or by carrying out social security services aimed at eliminating social distress and problems – as I have already mentioned, such as first-aid services, personal assistance or assistance to the family. This means that the Centre for Social Work can help an individual in the execution process to identify social distress or difficulty, together with it, assess possible solutions and familiarize him with possible social protection services or networks of providers that could offer him assistance. In cases where the debtor could not itself propose or the court could not simply set up another means of enforcement and the debt would remain only for a real estate that is the debtor's home, and the court, on the basis of a reasoned opinion of the Centre for Social Work in order to put immediate enforcement at risk the existence of the debtor or his family members, could postpone enforcement for a period of six months if it were a relatively low claim, which it is assumed that the debtor could, with the assistance of all of the relatives, friends, neighbours and humanitarian organisations, be able to pay it. The opinion of the Centre for Social Work justifies the postponement of enforcement where it implies that immediate enforcement would jeopardise the existence of the debtor or his family members. However, on several occasions with my team, I have also made it public that exceptional financial social assistance is available to all who would find themselves in a more difficult financial situation because of the crown of the crisis. Especially now that the times of distress are really great, when there are many fears, loss of income, and other uncertainties, it is important that we respond quickly to these hardships. This is also our direction, and I really encourage all those in distress to turn to the social work centre, where they will be helped in their situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u347	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u348	Your Honor, thank you for saying so. I will simply insist on my position that in PKP6 or already in these anti-Korona packages there should definitely be no deployment. However you have now explained the matter of social work centres and these things, your ministry is still responsible for the social situation and social security of all the population. However, when it comes to families or when it comes to single mothers with children with special needs, I think that the country should be first, as well as your ministry as well as you, as a minister, should be the first to come before these families as well as the media, as well as to the Ministry and first to stand up for them, or to seek solutions that you have already partially described in your explanation. In this way I will insist on my own that when it comes to the weakest in our society, and that these children with special needs are, and then the children are also most marked in these cases when it comes to executions or when it comes to assignments. I don't think we have anything to think about and talk about when it comes to children, but even when it comes to children with special needs, it is necessary for the state to step into action, to set matters straight, to try and help with legal aid, with financial assistance, with social and other things that it is going through, with all the leverage that we will not just talk about children. For children, however, something needs to be done for their future and their future needs to be fought for, since many times alone or in fact they cannot even fight for their future in such a case as being thrown literally onto the road or with their family or with their single mother. Here I insist that your ministry must be more consistent, even more vehement in solving these problems, and also really take the side of those weakest, as has already been said, children, and even children with special needs. And I'm also curious: Do you have any other business? [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u349	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Mr. Secretary, would you like to add something? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the supplementary question, Mr Members Koražija. I understand your call to what you've listed so that some things will be settled in anti-Korona packages. I'm guessing alone with the team that it's not enough just to go up against those who are in trouble because of a possible operation. Our programmes are targeted to support this individual or family in solving the situation that has led to this. Posting is then only a result of all the crisis, social and other situations in the family or in the individual, especially if there are children or children with special needs in the family. In this way, I think that our programmes and experts working at social work centres really approach these difficult situations with one feeling. If you wanted to ask me then maybe before the time has passed, in addition to what we have already mentioned, the parties can always turn to a social work centre where, together with experts, there are employees, they assess whether there is any other possibility that there will be no employment, or whether there is still a possibility of paying off the debts incurred with various financial assistance. The Centre for Social Work also offers support and advice if the distribution occurs and helps to find new accommodation. Checks whether there is a possibility of granting an exceptional non-profit apartment or accommodation unit, whether accommodation is possible with relatives or within a network of social security programmes, for example in shelters or maternity homes, if appropriate. It connects them with humanitarian organisations and presents a network and programmes of performers that can help solve the situation. It is important that an individual or a family in such a situation does not wait, but will seek help and action as soon as possible until the debt increases too much. Otherwise, we also co-finance the implementation of some other social protection programmes in the field of employment, namely the Prevention of Work and Strengthening of the Power to Maintain Existing Accommodation, implemented by the Society for the Assistance and Self-Help of the Street Kings, and the programme of psychosocial assistance in financial distress and debts carried out by Prelomi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u351	Thank you very much. Mr. Korazia, do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u352	My procedural proposal is to hold a broader debate on this subject in the National Assembly, even when Mr Minister finally mentioned the homeless. That, I'll simply say, deeply squeezes me in the soul and heart. I think, as a country like us, and if we are really looking for a social and some solidarity aspect or consensus, I think we need to make sure that we don't have homeless people, let alone homeless families or, in that case, homeless mothers with children. I want a broader debate to take place on this subject. In fact, the greatest victims of this crown of crisis will be, regrettably, children or our craftsmen and the oldest. If we really want a better or better future, it will be necessary to protect our craftsmen and children more, as well as our generation, in this case we, who are already in the middle generation or older, for their purpose and for their better future, will also give up some of our pluses, that they will have more of it and that they will have a better and better future. That's why we're here, and that's why your ministry, and that's why I want us to stay a social state. If we continue to deserve this, we will have to do a hell of a lot for this, and we will also do a lot of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u353	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, as part of the vote. Now let's get on with it. Mag. Andrej Reich will ask the Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u354	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns the tax policy of the country. As a member of Parliament and in the pre-election campaign, your party was very much in favour of reducing the tax, especially the value added tax to the pre-crisis level. Thus you wrote: "In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we promise citizens and citizens that we will release VAT at a pre-crisis level from 22 percent to 20 percent and from 9.5 to 8.5. This promise will be fulfilled by the new SDS government and, following the example of some European countries, will introduce a reduced tax rate of 5 per cent for the most pressing necessities of life." As a Member, you were also convinced that the reduction in VAT has a favourable impact on the fall in prices of products and services, as well as a positive impact on the family budget and will not jeopardise public finances. Your fellow Member has even declared that he is a regressive and non-social tax that affects those with the lowest income, as they pay him the most in terms of their income. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: What is the tax policy today, how do you pursue these goals from pre-election promises? You have also, if I am not mistaken, tabled a proposal to reduce value added tax several times in the legislative process, and I am interested in: When can citizens expect this tax to fall to a pre-crisis level? Of course, some measures have already been initiated in the field of excise policy. Thus, at the time of the crisis, you reduced excise duties on motor fuels and thus maintained the price of fuel in one euro per litre, which of course we welcome consumers. I am therefore particularly interested in the light of these measures: When can we expect a reduction in value added tax to pre-crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u355	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u356	Thank you very much. It is true, when there was no crisis, that we also proposed a reduction in value added tax, a general rate, as you said, also a reduced rate. We're in a crisis right now. We are now in crisis and because we are in crisis, we have allowed companies with various measures to postpone taxes, including value added taxes, which means they are not paying them. Just like the receipts. With the CAP6 we will also postpone our contributions, which means that companies currently do not pay, pay or postpone these taxes if they do not want to. Given that personal consumption has fallen and that consumption is actually lower, we do not see any greater possibility of this consumption being increased by a reduction in value added tax by two percentage points or by one percentage point. I do not think that this would significantly improve the situation or situation of businesses by direct measures, allowing businesses not to pay contributions, not to pay taxes and to compensate them for their salaries. This is one of the main measures. We will now also allow them to pay fixed costs instead. The value added tax, I think it's an indirect tax, does not directly affect prices. In other words, even if the tax is reduced, it does not mean that prices will also decrease. This is not written anywhere, prices are free, they are freely formed and I think that companies or shops make a greater reduction in the product with discounts than with a reduction in value added tax. From this point of view, I think that when the crisis is over, when the epidemic is over, when we also have a plan to comply with that basic rule in the fiscal rule – that is to say the basic rule, which means that the expenditure is equal to income – can then also be considered reducing the value added tax. I think it is more important for businesses, for example, to be given direct subsidies or to be given direct money so that they can stay on the market. That's one. Second, to easily reduce their costs at a fixed price or at a reduced price of petroleum derivatives, which you are also talking about and mentioned. In short, this is essentially the price of petroleum derivatives, which means a cost for businesses, stable and indicative of stability, and we have actually achieved this by reducing excise duties. This is certainly a contribution in the field of indirect taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u357	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, you have a request to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u358	Thank you so much for saying that. In this debate, I would return to 2013 when the Member of Parliament, and today the President of the Government, is very much opposed to raising the crisis tax. At the time, however, the Republic of Slovenia did not have such a favourable opportunity to compensate for the loss of income by debt as it can do today. Even so, Minister, if you have changed your mind that it is simply not possible to lower taxes in this situation. And we accept that somehow. In fact, I would like to point out that, in view of the fact that we will not lower taxes in order to maintain revenue, and that we also have a number of resources, long-term resources, which are also based on debt. However, I am interested in the fact that one of the electoral promises is also to lower tolls; that is, to lower tolls from €100 to €55. There is also a promise that all pensioners will receive a Christmas bonus of 500 euros each year, and also a promise from your party has been made to reduce VAT. You haven't fulfilled any of this. Of course, there are circumstances today, but we never promised it, because it was simply not feasible. And that's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm interested because there are so many of these confusing statements: Under what circumstances are we still going to reduce this VAT?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u359	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u360	Thank you very much, again. Now I must be more clear, honourable Member, or I have misunderstood you in the first question. In the first part of the question you were talking about value added tax and I was talking about value added tax and I was talking about subsidies that companies receive to survive and to keep their jobs. But if we're talking about all taxes, then I can't say here when you say there'll be no tax cuts. The first law – I think it will come to the National Assembly this year – will be a tax on motor vehicles where for most motor vehicles this tax will be lower. I said most of it because if I told you about everything, then you'd find me a model, and you'd say that's not the case. This will be called support for green policy, which is also a European policy. The second, which is already in the coalition contract itself, will also be changed in the following year – perhaps this year, something in the last measure – the Law on Taxation of Legal Persons and the Law on Income. We're talking here about what we wrote in the coalition contract. It is the introduction of a so-called senior pension scheme for full-time pensioners, then it is the tax burden on the performance prizes, the promotion of private sector investment in sport through tax incentives. And that's in the program of this coalition. We're only talking about lowering taxes here. Again, in the first part of the question you asked me about value added tax. I told you this wasn't possible right now. However, it is possible to reduce so-called direct taxes, which also have a much greater impact on the company and on the business of the company. As I mentioned, corporate income tax, income tax, I was talking about DMV, excise duty. These are tax cuts themselves. What's most important is that we don't talk about any tax to raise it. That's what we're talking about. Because today it is impossible to increase taxes because companies are in such a bad situation because of the crisis that they must first survive, exist, start doing business, also by allowing them to postpone taxes and contributions. Only then is taxation possible. So we give it to businesses and the population. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Reich, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u362	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal to hold a special debate on this subject in the National Assembly. I would like to thank the Minister for the correct answer. In the SAB party, we are aware of how difficult it is to run a government in crisis situations. The opposition is always here to oversee the government and to somehow cooperate constructively with it. We are, of course, always warning in the Sab Party, also talking about very important topics that affect the future of our society. In this sense, because of the many inconsistencies that may arise as a result of the cavid epidemic, in particular its unpredictability, we propose and ask that we hold a debate on this subject in the National Assembly. Nevertheless, I would like once again to thank you for the correct response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u363	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. We're moving on. Mr Željko Cigler will ask the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrei Vissiak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u364	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In addition to your best answer, I am asking you a question regarding the launch of flood measures in the Celje area in the Medlog sector, where interim measures are currently being taken to build a dry buffer in Levec. I want to tell you that this is about the flood security of this part of Celje, which is practically the most endangered part of the city since the mid-1980s, has been under water six times. This planned retainer, who is temporarily in Levec, has planned six ministers ahead of you. I'd like to ask you: Why has the state failed to ensure the information and inclusion of affected people and the general public in the Celje on this measure, which now comes from public European and state resources? This intervention into a space under the Aarhus Convention requires that the public be made aware of it. I'll ask you another time. Flood protection must be provided to all those at risk without exception: What is the cause of the unequal treatment of Celjans and companies living and operating in Medloge in relation to the private capital of the investors of the six prestigious villas of the blocs, from which the four will receive a building permit immediately after the construction of the new anti-floating embankment, which will be built by public funds and EU funds? Mr Minister, I would like to tell you that this measure is now being done like this. However, I have here drawn or painted with blue by designers, where it is marked that the complex Medlog will be a practical lake along every slightly higher Savinja level, which is the windy river. What's going on? The 430-meter mound on the left bank of Savinja is removed. In short, it's going down! Each slightly higher water will have space, works the corridor towards Medlog in the width of 70 meters at the bottom in the direction of Medlog. The road is falling, which has so far defended the water supply to Medloga, so that the water will have its way free. At the same time, the front wall and the 845 - foot - long flood plain are being built to protect part of Celje justly. I agree with that. Mr. Secretary, the Montessori kindergarten is under threat. So far, children have always been swimming, and so will be. Twelve companies, high capital, have invested and are operating in the Medlog area. Eight houses and, Mr. Secretary, I'd like to tell you this. One of the houses says: In gratitude and memory of the action in the war to win independent Slovenia. In 1990 and 1991, there was a secret warehouse of weapons of territorial defence in this house. This house, too, Mr. Secretary, will be underwater. Under the first item of today’s agenda, Prime Minister Janez Janša strongly exposed true independence. Agree a little with these values. Tell me: Why do you discriminate against the flood security of the inhabitants of Celje Medlog?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u365	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u366	Dear Member, thank you very much for this question. Of course, I will overlook this claim of yours in the end that anyone is discriminated against because it is a pure political fabrication. However, I would like to point out that, in order to ensure flood safety for Celje, there is, of course, a need to implement comprehensive measures in the lower Savina Valley, which include the implementation of ten dry restraints, in addition to the local flood control measures on Savinja and the inflows envisaged under the Savani River. This is a project that is planned and will be implemented in the future financial perspective, but it is essential for the overall provision of flood safety. Each partial action leads to similar conclusions, as you mentioned by one group, which are completely unprofessional and do not reflect any results of any hydrological hydraulic study that has also been done for this area. It is also important that the dry Levec retainer, combined with flood control measures along Savinja and the Bedroom, would ensure flood safety of the area in the western part of Celje, Špica. The Dry Restraint will not be built until the completion of the Flood Security Project in Savinja – local measures. Up until now, high-water embankments and walls have been constructed along the Ložnica, from the confluence with Savinja to the western border of the Municipality of Celje. In addition to the measures at the Ložnica, the embankment along the left bank of Savinja was exceeded against the water-meter station of Medlog. With the Levec restraint, the barrier would be diverted to Savinja by the flow of spilled water from the back to the Spice area. Due to the failure to build a dry buffer, Levec – the decision has been taken under Minister Dejan Židani – an alternative measure has been proposed, that is, a transverse dam of Medlog, so that the flood security of the Spice area will not deteriorate. The envisaged solution ensures that the implementation of new high-water embankments does not worsen in any way in areas of industrial zone, residential buildings and also water Medlog. This will not affect the quality of groundwater by implementing the envisaged alternative measures as the measures are carried out downstream to Medlog. Humiliation of the embankment on the left bank of Savinje allows the return of spilled waters back to Savinja from the village of Špica, thus protecting the entire village of Špica from floodwaters that have threatened them for decades. Once again, I stress that 10 dry restraints are also required to complete flood safety, as I mentioned in the introduction.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Member, you have a request to complete your reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u368	Dear Minister, I am from Celje and have experienced this flood. Once again, the Medlog is the most affected area in the flood. I told you, and physically I showed you that the hills are being removed. Savini is making a free flow to Medloga. He's bending over the high waters, and there's gonna be a spill. And we got an independent opinion from a hydrologist who examined these things and said that flood safety was at least the same as it was in 1990, when Celje was even underwater or Medlog would be a virtually diversified area. There's a watertight area. There was six floods there. If you come to visit, come to Celje, welcome; I'll give you coffee. People will show you where the water was standing on the roof. The garden of Montessori will be practically useless. This is the destruction of the environment, private property and the threat of life in this area. One more thing. At the last flood around 2000 Savinja was raised, it was not reduced, as you will now lower it and the corridor against Medlogo. There was a flood back then. I do not understand why temporary action is taken in this way. Court designers, court attorneys and piarian court services will certainly be able to justify this, but, Mr. Vizjak, if we fail to change these things and ensure equal flood safety, believe me, that the inhabitants of this part of Celje will invite you at the first flood – whatever you will then, you will be in this function or anywhere else. I hope this flood doesn't happen sooner. But you didn't answer me: Why is it that the country that plans this project and now implements it with public, state and European resources that this project has not brought to the attention of the people of Medlog who will be most affected and the companies that work there? Why hasn't that been assured? Mr. Secretary, you're responsible for this. It's your responsibility. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u369	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u370	Dear Member! Firstly, this issue, called comprehensive flood protection of Celje or the wider area, is not a political issue. This is a strictly professional question and therefore, according to all knowledge of the profession, this project is led by the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Water. The Director of the Directorate is known in Celje as an experienced, good expert in this field, Mr Roman Kramer. You have discussed this subject with him on numerous occasions, he has given you all the answers, and here you are now politicising and politicizing this extremely sensitive professional question. Please give the expert opinion of the hydrologist to whom you refer – because he does not exist. Please. It's very serious questions that you're going to accuse me here of exposing anyone in this country of being threatened by high waters in the future. Once again, this is a strictly professional question that you understand very well, and because of the cameras, you are performing with populist Flossules. Please, out of responsibility to the Celyans, cease this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u371	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ambassador, you have a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u372	Dear Minister, I have listened attentively to your important words and found that this is probably not politics. It's a basic knowledge of physics that if you remove the fact that if you remove the water barrier, that's the protective anti-floating shore, the water will hit when it expands. You probably don't know Savinja, but that's how it is with Savinja. Secondly, Mr. Roman Kramer and I have even been friends personally, and we have talked about this three times. Most of all about the protection of the wood park, which is a project for which we would like to see the Ambassador of Great Britain in Slovenia, but I do not know if he will still stand. That's what Roman explained to me. But when we got to the flood protection, things couldn't be explained when I was giving him counter-agreements. And it's not about any deceiving. Mr Minister, there live citizens and citizens of Slovenia who have a permanent, temporary residence there, visit kindergarten, economic society. Flood security must also be ensured. These are no flossules, no gathering of political points. This is your responsibility to provide these people, because you are the Minister for the Environment and Space, Anti- Flood Security and Protection. That's all this is about. Please, Madam President, put this matter to the vote following the procedure to be discussed at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u373	Thank you very much. Your proposal will be decided by the National Assembly on Friday, 20 November, in the framework of the votes. Mr Branko Simonovic is next. He will ask the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u374	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. In the middle of last year, the Slovenian mayors of Istria came to agree that the issue of placing the road network in the region of Slovenian Istria is something that goes beyond the interests of the municipality as well as the interests of the country. Transport has an indisputable impact on the region's competitiveness and strategic coastal situation. All the arrangements so far have not been comprehensive or time-consolidated, particularly non-systematic and unrelated to regional development and spatial interests. Therefore, the mayors of the coastal municipalities appointed a special coordination expert group to proactively harmonise municipal positions and their spatially placed findings on which there was agreement between the mayors. For the first time, the long-term needs of transit traffic through Slovenia's Istria are satisfied with the construction of only one fast road. This fast road needs to be quickly placed in space and carried out as quickly as possible, starting with undisputed sections. Secondly, for the purposes of an inter-regional link and a link between Piran, Isol and the new rapid road Koper-Schmarje-Dragonja, it is necessary to place a powerful network of main roads. The municipalities have thus developed an alternative network of main roads that replaces the planned section of the Jagodje-Lucia fast road in a way that integrates the connections between Piranov and Isolo and Pirano and the fast road connection, which runs mainly in tunnels and valleys without any major interference in the landscape. At the same time, it even modernises the links between rural and urban centres, which will encourage more coherent rural development and thus tourism offers. My question is: Do you agree with both the approach and the solution that addresses transport in Istria in a sonar, comprehensive and at the same time sufficient for all transport needs? Do you agree that the network of main municipal roads, which would be built as a connection to one quick road Koper-Schmarje-Dragonja, is an appropriate alternative and, according to experts' calculations, a much cheaper alternative to the planned fast road Jagodje-Lucija? Are you prepared, in the case of Slovenian Istria, to approach the partnership in both placement and implementation of the proposed coordinated solutions? Can the population of Slovenian Istria count that the purpose of roads in Slovenia Istria will not only be the fastest way to Croatia, but an instrument of development that is sustainable and respectful of our unique landscape values and the identity of space? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u375	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u376	Thank you very much to colleague Simonovic for this question. I think it was July when I was in Pirano talking to Mayor Piran. The point of the talks was this one, including the other mayors, and I was also talking to the mayors. This fast road from Jagod to Lucija or Jagodje-Lucia is already located, building permit has been obtained. If I am not mistaken, 94% of the areas needed for construction have already been obtained. Why isn't construction going on here? Why? It is precisely because the people and the municipalities, all three municipalities, local communities, have somehow convinced me, or convinced me, that the Koper-Smarje-Dragonja road should be made quickly. I promised you one thing. Dars and I are talking about this. Even in the past, I must say, in the previous term, they have talked about this. But I promise one thing, that the local MPs and the mayors with me will get on this subject in December and finally pull some final cut around it. I do not say that there is no need to make a new link from Jagod to Lucija, but I agree that Koper-Schmarje-Dragonja needs to be made a link because otherwise the entire transit going to Croatia will go ashore and certainly interfere with the development of our tourism on the coast. All transit from Italy to Istria, for example, will also reach into this segment of coastal development, for sure. I agree with that. You know, I come from the immediate area or from the Vipava Valley, but I'm a lot on the Coast, and I know what the problem is. Certainly, if the Slovenian coast wants to develop, it cannot go to the center of Slovenia's Istria or along the Slovenian coast an additional fast road that would in fact prevent development. I'm not going to talk about what the price is, because that's why we're going to hit something over the thumb, but in this way we should really and systematically go into the process itself, what the price could be compared to this fast road that actually has a building permit already obtained. Once again, I'm about to start a conversation and get all the additional professional bases for putting up the Koper-Dragon Road. I promise you this, Dars and I have already talked about this, and I say this, but it would be nice to have me and Dars and the local community and all the Members of the Coast. I don't see any problems. We've already talked to the mayors about this, and they're all in the same position as you, including the mayor of Piran. I was at his place in the summer months, and he also said we couldn't have all the transit in Lucia. I know that's the problem. Well, that's not why it's still being built, because that's the problem. But you have to ask why this problem occurred, all the planners in the past. But okay, we're here to solve problems, not find the culprits back and we're gonna solve this problem. Okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u377	Thank you very much. Mr. Ambassador, do you have a request for a supplement? [[Yeah.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u378	Thank you very much for your answers. Let me get this straight. From the beginning, when they planned this fast road, there were two legs; one Koper-Isola-Lucia Circle and the fast road ends there. When this one was built, it was supposed to build the Koper-Schmarje-Dragon road. Since the time component is so stagnant and old, the situation has now changed. I'm sure I agree with that and I think it shows first to save one quick road and at the expense of another you can make these local main roads with a connection to it. This would be some proposal and I hope and I believe, Mr Minister, that you will also engage, because I have somehow seen from your response that you support this direction in principle. But the parishioners were behind it, and that was their idea at the points where they agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u379	Thank you very much. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u380	It's not an answer, it's a complement. You don't care who's in power in the municipality, but let's just say the last two terms are different mayors in the same position. So, surely we will not argue, once again, that from Jagodje to Lucija there is no need for improvement and remodeling and fast road, but parallel must also be made there from Kopra to Draganje or go simultaneously. [[…]] If we made this connection once, and we could only promise from Kopra to Dragonja, then it would never be. But we need to figure out how this is gonna go. I think we need to have this dialogue, or we need to commit ourselves to the mayors, because so far the last two mandates have been just talking about us starting. Still waiting for me, however, we have nothing to do with making an approximate route from Kopra to Dragonje — without professional grounds, without placement. However, you know that the procedure for placing such a route lasts for 5.6 years. And that's what we need to have in the lease, when we can build it there, we'll put it here. But okay, I'll listen to the local communities, just like I always do. We're not going past the local community, because I can't imagine the entire transit actually going through Lucia. Everything going to Croatia also via Dragonje would go through Lucija in this case. There would be a very large stopper on that rondo if we didn't keep talking about what that would mean. So, the vehicles would be parked somewhere near the center of Portorož. Definitely. Here we will have to agree very quickly to begin the placement procedures of Dragonje and then further acquire all other permits against Dragonja, for sure. I have already said this, I think, as part of my presentation at the beginning of my term of office. Thank you for asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u381	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Let's keep asking questions. Mr Miha Kordiš will also ask the Minister for Infrastructure, Mr Jerne Vrtovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u382	Thank you for your word. At the end of October this year, the reconstruction of the Trata railway crossing in Škofja Loka began. This restoration was agreed with the Municipality of Škofja Lok, provided that the transition returns to its previous state. This has not happened; the recast of the transition has turned into a complete closure of this crossing across the railway line for motor vehicles. Not only is it a violation of the agreement with the Municipality of Škofja Lok, it is also a threat to the surrounding inhabitants of the village of Trata, as well as to the employees in the industrial zone, which is fueled by this railway transition; in Knauf there are 450 people working, the countrymen of Trata are just over 250. Ten people are also employed by Kisikarna. If this transition is closed, the intervention path to the industrial zone and to the residences of these people is extended by five minutes, as the firefighters were able to say in the assembly of the locals. This is the difference between if an industrial or other accident occurs, or if a factory is protected from the consequences of this accident, or if a house is burned down or does not happen. This case is not hypothetical, it burned in Knauf last February, in addition to the storage facility with gas cylinders, and if 64 firefighters from Trata, Gostec, Škofje Loka, from Stara Loka, Groharca and professional firefighters from Kranj did not intervene in time, this warehouse would be blown up. The ambition of the Slovenian Railways, as well as a certain part of the bureaucracy within your apparatus, Mr Minister, is that this transition to Trata will be closed in any way and justified by a safety argument that this transition is not technically appropriate. But in 100 years of this transition, there was no accident, and I've just outlined to you what the closure of the transition to motor vehicles could mean in the case of an industrial combustion zone. In doing so, I do not even take into account the fact that, if there is a need for employees, people who are evacuated in any way, roads, alternative access to the site of the accident that leads through you Trata, what they can accomplish. Then the fire extinguishers can't even get to the scene of the accident in time or in any other way. So, Mr. Minister, I ask you: Will you stop closing the railway crossing and return it to its original state? Are you going to provide funds and start building an out-of-military crossroad, called a subway, as promised to the countrymen of Trate more than a decade ago? Another problem was that this transition was not really a transition if you were in a wheelchair. There are two such locals who can't walk through this passage normally, and one is also on an electric wheelchair. There's not even a wheel across this aisle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u383	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u384	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much, as well as for the question. Mr. Kordish, I was, I think, 14 days ago with the mayor of the Municipality of Škofja Lok. We have discussed this thoroughly and we have also reached some conclusions. Firstly, we cannot solve such a problem in the short term, but in the long term it will be that the DRSI, this is the organisational structure of the Ministry, has started with all the implementations to start a comprehensive reconstruction, the reconstruction of the railway station of Škofja Loka, as well as the construction of the subway. In my opinion, the invitation to tender for the contractor, if all proceedings are to take place as they must, without appeal, could be in the following year. First the design call for the architect to clear up and so on and then with just construction. This is a comprehensive solution. Not only are we discussing how we're going to stop something, we're not going to stop something, but if we're going to stop something, we have an alternative, we're going to make a ride, because Bishop Lok deserves it. Another time. In this case, it's not just a line. This railway crossing, the level crossing, is in this case a passage across the railway station. Is it just one track? How many tracks does it take? I went to see this because it was a serious controversy. Why am I saying this? Because of your cooperation between the Municipality of Škofja Lok, from the past, when we witnessed how the Municipality of Škofja Loka had built itself where the state was supposed to build in 2010, there was not enough money in the state budget, against an industrial zone of Škofja Loka – I said that Škofja Loka deserves to be visited by the Ministry here. That's why we went all the way to solve the situation. I'm telling you, within two years, there's gonna be a new train station. As far as disabled people are concerned. I was informed that there was one person on a wheelchair who was moving across the line every day. With regard to pedestrians and disabled persons, it will be taken care of and will now be taken care of where the earth is now, the macadam between the tracks. Even with the cars, the car pass. We will continue to discuss this with the congregation and the Commission for the Cross-border Transitions will meet again on my initiative, because I will not allow a certain part of the city of injustice to happen – which did not happen in my mandate so that there will be no mistake. It did not happen in my mandate, but it happened for the first time in 2008 and the second time in 2019 under the previous Minister. On 11 April, when this Commission re-examined certain non-compliances, an agreement was issued in order to end this troop transition. But then there was no one to complain until the wheelchairs got there physically. I wasn't informed about the wheelchairs until they were installed. I also did not go to look at all the documents that my predecessors had issued since 2000. But if I were to be informed, I'm sure, Mr. Kordish, I'd go there and look at the problem. I will not say that there has been injustice or anything, but I am solving this situation that has been done in the past and I am not saying that there have been no mistakes made. What's the story of the whole profession? That it's not just a railway crossing, but it's part of a train station and a crossing. If you go to Google Maps now and look at this railway crossing, you'll find that there's a truck, a tow truck going to Trato over there. If not the other way around, there must be no crossing for trucks there. I'm really thinking because I met with the mayor, with the saints from the Municipality of Škofja Lok, and I know this problem. I am not saying that a decision has been taken in the past, but we are solving what we can do. I'm sure we'll save everything for the disabled and for the pedestrians. However, the Commission will meet again and decide again. That's my promise. But I will not promise anything that I cannot promise because it was already in 2008 and 2019 was done. On November 4th, I met with the mayor. They haven't met in the past, but they've made up their minds.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u385	Thank you very much. Mr. Kordish, please take the floor to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u386	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, this is not a problem you would have made, but I expect you to solve it. A year ago, I asked the same question of your predecessor, Alenka Bratušek, and there was also a general debate on her answer to my question. This parliamentary action against the closure of the railway crossing on Trata has also been supported by your parliamentary group, Minister Vrtovec. And I was the one who was in the National Assembly showing pictures from Google maps of what this railway crossing looks like. And we had an item on the agenda of the plenary session of the National Assembly. What I'm really interested in is two. First, to resolve the present situation — a burning problem that we have. This is that without consent, without consultation, or even through all the agreements, this railway crossing was closed and concrete started there. In this way, it put all the inhabitants of Trata at risk and all the employees working there in Knauf or in the industrial zone, as I have already pointed out, and the intervention path is extended by 4 to 5 minutes. Getting in there in this industrial zone is not hypothetical, but it happened a good year and a half ago. My desire is that all these parts stop immediately and this transition returns to its original state or perhaps a slightly adjusted state that will make it difficult for trucks that have one kilometer further their industrial chassis. The second solution, the long-term solution that you, the minister, are talking about, is, of course, out-of-line access. If this transition is already being closed, as it can be done, no one in itself opposes it by taking care of an alternative in the form of an overpass and underpass, of course, everything will be fine. But for this overpass, the undercarriage requires resources and can not be limited only to cyclists, such as this chassis or overpass, but must also be accessible to motor vehicles. Will we find these funds?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u388	These funds are provided, because we finally have, for the first time in history, more than a billion euros in budget under this government. That's what I talked to the mayor about. There'll be a ride. Part of the reconstruction and reconstruction of the entire railway station of Škofja Loka, if we are being permanently mobile – we must see that from Škofje Loka very many people go to work in Ljubljana with the train – then this subway will be part of this reconstruction. That's it! Even for motor vehicles, even for cars. That's it. That's what I was talking to the mayor about. This is under discussion and the DRSI also has instructions, which is an authority within the Ministry to start proceedings immediately. I can show you a letter, I will publish it together on social networks, and you can share it, about it starting in the long term with the reconstruction of the railway station and with the undercarriage under the railway station which will include this transition towards Trata. I'll tell you again, I'm gonna meet with the committee again, and we're gonna get a solution. Surely this solution will be arranged for the disabled and for the pedestrians. I will do my best to extend it for one year or until the undercarriage is extended — not for trucks, because it is dangerous. What's on Google maps, this truck, if someone shows this picture to an expert, you'll find out right away that it's not that. So if there's been a state of affairs for 50 years, I don't see any reason not to be another year. Of course, when there is a car accident and a death victim, you will point your thumb at me. I know that, but okay. I hope that this year there will be no or no such troublesome transitions. We're gonna have another time with the commission. I'll say it again. I met with the mayor as soon as I found out about this issue. But I didn't find out before I was informed about these documents, but you understand me? Even if you tell me that in 2019 we discussed this in Parliament – we discussed many things in Parliament – I believe so; but only when the mayor called me did we start a discussion and we met and also with other municipal councillors and so on. I know this is a very big problem, not because of ambulances, not just because of ambulances. It's two kilometers around, I went in the car to measure — it's not a five-minute drive with a ambulance, it's not a five-minute drive. But everyday habits of people, farmers with tractors and so on, even now these disabled people and pedestrians are driving around, the problem is, and I know it's a problem, which is why we're talking to the local community. So that's just [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u389	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kordish, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u390	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr Minister, local firefighters told the assembly that they had just tried to get together and that the intervention time was extended by 4 to 5 minutes. For me, looking at the position of the local representative, as the MEP of Škofja Loka, from the point of view of the end, the issue of security is one of the biggest problems for me. Black locals may feel it on a daily basis as inappropriate, which somehow makes it impossible for them to move quickly and quickly across the railway line, and I think that life and the issue of saving these lives are crucial here, as long as there is an accident, and I hope that we will not see it at any time in reality. But you, Mr. Minister, are somehow at the head of infrastructure projects in this country, so after all, you are the Minister of Infrastructure, and yet there has been a virtually guerrilla closure of the railway crossing on Trata past the agreement and past the agreements with the Municipality of Škofja Lok. This did not happen because of you, you have not even been informed – I, Mr Minister, believe you – but it is very obvious that there is some other interest here. This interest, I think, points to certain elements of bureaucracy within your ministry, especially the Slovenian Railways, which want to close this door to the nose and ask what this means for fire and other security of the countries and employees in the industrial zone, are not doing much. And there was no agreement to close this transition without you, Mr. Minister, being informed. This is also one of the reasons why I want a general debate in the National Assembly on your response. In fact, what you said was quite satisfactory, an unusually good answer. If we do get a refurbished railway station and a subway that will meet all the conditions that the natives have and that the employees of the industrial zone have in order to be able to access it normally. However, I am concerned that there is no infrastructure at the Ministry, although railway infrastructure is not a single area within the country, but they are different cities with different people, different agendas and different interests. If that weren't the case, this undercarriage would have been built 10 or 15 years ago. It's not, is it? We are witnessing that it is contrary to the congregation’s agreement, contrary to the agreement, and past the landsmen to close the transition and to concreteizing the stakes. I'm afraid that some idea of stopping this transition immediately and returning to the original state of affairs and then building an out-of-line crossing in the next step, that, despite your ambitions, Mr. Minister, it will stop in the chariots. To fly in some kind of pollen from those who want to close this passage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u391	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Mr Luka Mesec will ask the Minister for Culture, Dr Vask Simoniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u392	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! Mr. Minister, I will ask you two questions, as foretold. First, it's about self-employed people in culture. Self-employed people in culture must renew their status or the right to pay their contributions by the State for 5 years and ensure that they do so by professional commissions. The expert committees are those who assess their excellence, which they assess, but who are self-employed, sufficient to be eligible for renewal or re-recognizance of the payment of contributions. There the criteria are quite clear, the points are also transparent, and so far this is all, let's say, normal running. Until this year or until your term of office, when we hear that, in fact, you as a minister have begun to intervene voluntarily in this matter beyond the opinions of the committees. For example, people get a positive opinion from commissions, you as a minister simply judge that this self-employed person is not entitled to an extension of the status or to payment of contributions. I'm interested, Mr. Minister, in particular: On what basis do you do this, and under what criteria? Second; this is a question about the film, where the story is similar. The Slovenian Film Centre was granted funds, projects were distributed. Some films have already started to be made, but now the figures show that since the closure of the film funds forward in the beginning of your mandate, the Slovenian Film Centre has received up to 17 percent of the funds promised to it. This means that the people who have already done the work have already started making the film or have even completed it, have not been paid to wait for payments for work after more than half a year, that many of them are in debt to external operators, to hotels. That many of them, even though they were working, had to apply for basic income because you or now the new interior ministry, which I do not know the logic behind it, are not paying them. I'm interested, Mr. Secretary, in concrete terms: What is your agenda, or what is your interest, that you so desire a Slovenian film or, if I am more direct, why are you destroying it? I'm asking you both very exact answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u394	Thank you very much. With regard to self-employed people, we will not now repeat everything who is entitled to it and how. All I'd say is that what you've found out what the commission is doing, what the minister's role is. The Minister also has a discretionary right, by the way. The Commission has, of course, approved matters in favour of certain candidates who are quite often at the beginning of their journey. And it is required, as we know by the criteria, that the criteria are known, that a five-year excellence is required, which is supposed to be an outstanding contribution to Slovenian culture. I think that someone who finishes, say, college and does two seminar assignments or a graduation assignment, in fact, can't be enough reason to be entitled to such a privilege. So I don't think that this is an extraordinary contribution to Slovenian culture and also from the documents that explain this, I would find it difficult to believe that this is an extraordinary contribution. That's why I think such people are only at the beginning of their creative path and their artistic pathways, if you will. If we were to grant everyone everything, as it seems, right or with one great favor, without taking into account, in my opinion, the basic thing, what is five years of excellence and at what time, I think it would also contribute to the unequal position of citizens and I do not see such things as personal support. Even if someone works in a culture, this does not mean that he is automatically more valuable than others and that they belong to him with privileges that others, of course, do not have. The privileges, if any, must be rare, must be carefully and carefully shared. That is how these things came to be, as has been the case, but in the initial problem that has arisen, I have received proposals without any justification or without sufficient justification and, of course, I have returned it to re-examine. Then I carefully examined these things myself, thought about it, and I think that they did not follow these criteria sufficiently and I decided, as I have decided, but not all of them. There's been a lot of talk about the film, a lot. So, I don't know what else to say, which has not already been said publicly or repeatedly in this House, or perhaps even on the Committee on Culture. I would say that this embarrassment occurred in this sense because at the beginning of this year — that is, when we were not yet in the government — demanded that the entire film package go to the government and then, of course, there were some obstacles or concerns that I did not have any further effect on myself. I myself have referred these matters to the General Secretariat of the Government, where the matter has stopped or is in fact problematic. I've tried this a number of times myself to get through this embarrassment, to say the least. I am aware that the film is, to a certain extent, clear, at that time also in a certain situation that is not promising, but I hope that it will be resolved in the interest of a good conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u395	Thank you very much. Mr. Moon, he has a request to complete the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u396	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Minister, I know you have a discretionary right, but my question was, on what criteria do you decide who is appropriate and who is not, and on what basis can you simply reject or overrule the opinion of the committees or, if you are already doing so, why are these commissions then, if you, Mr Minister, are the only judge in who is entitled and who is not? Second of all, I think you're talking a little too fast about privilege here. If I am not mistaken, a quarter of the self-employed are below the poverty risk threshold, and the monthly earnings threshold is around EUR 1,000 600. So it's not some kind of privilege, or it's not a well-paid people. And the last time you say it, someone who started to prove themselves elsewhere. Unfortunately, in the culture we have, there are many other options. Tell me: How many people have you hired in institutions this year? If you refuse self-employed: How many young people have you hired in institutions to start elsewhere than in self-employment? And second of all, filmmakers. I can't accept the answer that you're hoping this will be resolved. And you're the Minister of Culture who's responsible for getting rid of this! You are the Minister of Culture who is responsible for not sinking Slovenian film. They work there themselves, which have not been paid before, which go from project to project for small money and just do what little they can from this Slovenian film. By the way, one German feature film has on average a higher budget than the budget of the entire Slovenian film in one year, and now you are not paying them all year round. You gave them 17 percent of that money and you say, "I hope this will be resolved." Who are you?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u397	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u398	Well, I hope that you will come to the government and you, who know everything and know everything, with your great experiences and knowledge of culture, I think you will arrange it. It would be nice to hear you say exactly what you're going to do, so people can hold you to your word, because that's how you know everything and know everything about it. So the Commissions are a consultative body to the Minister and make proposals to him. That's what more of this is, of course. Who am I? Minister of Culture, who has certain powers, which he also naturally uses. There's nothing more to say about the movie than I am. I think that the filmmakers, if this thing has led to this absurd state like this, should take another path, a judicial path so that this embarrassment can bridge and, of course, go for the filmmakers. This in relation to the film is dealt with on certain committees where my role is no longer. I've tried to move these committees several times, but of course they haven't. But it is, and I agree with that — as I would say — I don't know if I should do more, but I don't know, I don't have the tools to do anything more than I did, but of course I'm constantly trying to get these things to work out. So I hope they do. There's nothing else I can say. But let the filmmakers draw all the moves that are in their hands, even the judges, to resolve the matter of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Moon, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u400	Thank you. I agree with you, Mr. Minister, the situation is absurd, but this absurdity has not come after some kind of accident or embarrassment, as you say, but because of you. Everyone, all the ministries have more money in the next year than they had before or have more money than ever. The fact that you're hungry for some poor Slovenian movie, sorry, it's no accident or embarrassment, it's just a political decision to do it. It's as if the finance minister over there decided not to pay any more money to a budget user, and I'd say, yeah, awkward, it's embarrassing. Some kind of embarrassment has happened. We can't talk like this, Mr. Secretary. You're mature on the entire interpolation line. On the whole line. You've made your mandate more difficult than any cultural minister has ever done. I don't know how you have the face of people working in a Slovenian film that hasn't been paid all year, literally in debt and asking for basic income to survive, even though they work, you come here and say, "I'm embarrassed, I'm embarrassed, I hope it'll be resolved as soon as possible." You who are responsible for this absurd situation happening in the first place! I therefore suggest that we discuss this thoroughly in the National Assembly. As far as self-employed people are concerned, that's all, Mr. Secretary. I don't know what right it is for you to take absolute powers to decide who gets the status and who doesn't. No culture minister has dared to do that either.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u401	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. We're moving on. Ms Violeta Tomić will ask the Minister for Finance, mag. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u402	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. We have just heard from the Minister for Culture that paying contributions to self-employed people is a privilege. Now, in the 6th anti-crisis package, the state is providing exceptional aid to religious servants of EUR 700 per month without proving excellence or five years of excellence and so on without paying taxes at any time, unlike the self-employed in the culture they have always worked. They are dedicated to the whole chapter, from Articles 114 to 118. For the months of October, November and December, 700 euros per month will be available for them. Of course, the main recipient of this State aid is the Catholic Church, since this has the highest number of employees mentioned above. In an epidemic of priests, Janša’s government equated the clergy with the self - employed. Is that what you imagine?Oh, my God! The same assistance as for entrepreneurs is given to religious employees. And this receipt, sorry, smells bad. The RCC in Slovenia has wonderful wealth. The church is a mega corporation and the largest company in the country. For example, last year, the company Metropolitana of the Ljubljana Archdiocese had a total of EUR 14 million in net profit of EUR 7.5 million. In December 2018, 30 million bank deposits were made, and the profits were also derived from forest management, which the Church had unduly returned, since it had sold them in 1858. The Metropolitan therefore owns 15,000 hectares of forests, and now it is still a promising property in the Triglav National Park. Last year, the Bled Forest Economy, which manages forests in Pokluka and Jelovac, generated 52 million euros in revenue and 3 million euros in net profit. The Archbishop of Maribor, however, even bankrupted with unheard of property. So the church enjoys limitless benefits, and the country now has about 800 RDC employees, and not only priests, to understand each other, including churchmen, cooks and housewives from the budget, providing us with contributions, which cost us 1.0 million euros in 2018. At the same time, the Church in Slovenia is forgiven – the only! — payment of income tax, VAT, property tax, use of building land, inheritance tax and gifts. In short, the cleric's crisis state aid raises the question of who is responsible for taking care of religious servants: a religious community or a state, because we have a constitutional separation of state and religion. That's why I'm asking you: Why does the state pay the priests during the epidemic from the budget, despite the constitutional separation of the state and the church? The country has not provided any assistance to many unemployed people in these times of crisis. For the shameful rich Church, this is another help in these times of crisis. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u403	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Before we proceed, Mr Hojs and Mr Simoniti, I ask you to move this debate round out, because I was extremely disturbed by the fact that Mr Minister, who I do not believe that Mrs Ambassador has heard at all. I ask you to respect us, even though we are before the last question. Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u404	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member! The State also pays certain money for religious communities or for members of religious communities. This is also the case with PKP6. It also pays certain contributions in this regard. Firstly, this is regulated by law, as you yourself said, and secondly, it is in accordance with the Constitution or also with a constitutional decision. There were more of them. I quote one constitutional decision: U-I-92/7-23 of 15. 4. 2010 where it is stipulated that the State, irrespective of the separation of the Church and the State, does not, of course, exclude the financing of the Church. Here, too, the 41st Article of the Constitution, which speaks of religious freedom, must be taken into account by the Law on Religious Communities, and it must also be taken into account, here I am thinking mainly of Article 5 of this Law, and the Law on the Legal Situation of Religious Communities. When this question, which you are now asking, is constitutionally judged, the Constitutional Court, in this decision of 15 April 2010, stated that the State can materially support the registered churches and other religious communities for their general benefit, as defined in Article 5 of this Act, is called the Law on Religious Communities. Churches and other religious communities that advocate spirituality and human dignity in private and public life strive to design religious life and play an important role in public life by developing their cultural, educational, educational, solidarity, and other activities in the field of social state, which enrich national identity and thus play an important social role, are generally beneficial organisations. General useful organisations are, of course, also financed by the State, and this does not mean that the principle of separation of the State from the church would be violated. That's what the constitutional decision says, as I've already quoted, and from this point of view, I think it's settled. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are talking about religious communities, that the state is financed under the law of the seven religious communities, the Catholic Church, the Evangelical Church in the Republic of Slovenia, the Evangelical Pentecostal Church, the Serbian Orthodox Church of Metropolis Zagreb-Ljubljana, the Christian Adventist Church, the Islamic Community in the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian Muslim Community. These are the communities which, according to the law, have a specific criterion, and this is also stated by the Constitutional Court, that this is possible because those religious communities, which are generally useful to the wider social community, because they are active in areas that fall within the framework of the social state, can be materially supported by the State. From this point of view, as you said, it can actually pay off and there are no problems here. Otherwise, of course, we have a register of churches and other religious communities, where we have 56 churches and other religious communities, also in accordance with constitutional provisions relating to the fact that of course religion is free and free. With regard to what churches pay and so on, I would like to remind you that, of course, they pay value added tax, like all other companies, so they buy their goods. That's the first thing. The second is that they pay taxes and are bound by taxes for their entrepreneurship activities relating to undertakings that carry out economic activity and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u405	Thank you very much. Mrs Violeta Tomić has a request to complete the reply. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u406	We know that religious officials are financed from the same malhah — the Ministry of Culture. And the minister was talking about the unequal position of culturers. I don't know what religious officials do there. You promised us Switzerland. In Switzerland, church tax is paid exclusively by those who are defined as a specific religious community. And you say they're generally useful organizations. Sure. This is why St. Stanislav's Office receives the most money from NGOs – 76 million and more. The Slomski Foundation is 33 million, the Aloyzi Shausthar Foundation is two million and something else. In short, this PKP6 is the same measure taken by the Government in the first wave of the epidemic. In short, the RCC has about a thousand bishops and regular priests. The State has also exempt religious servants from payment of all contributions and all compulsory social insurance. As owner of forests and agricultural land, the Church – you will not believe – is also receiving crisis measures in the field of agriculture. And then they say, first life, then health, then economy. Yeah, great! This fine language is very well supported by the Catholic Church, for which it is also beautifully, beautifully rewarded. You know, this SDS support RCK we all pay, and that's wrong. Clearly, it is legal corruption, for a government coalition with unconstitutional assistance is buying clerical favors in order to strengthen its electoral base and power with its help. That's why I really expect you to tell me. I believe he can support it, as was the judgment of the 15th. 4. But nowhere does he talk about so many layoffs, so many payments. Do you know how many people are starving today? And no priest is hungry today.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u407	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u408	The fact that church organisations are generally useful organisations has been said by the Constitutional Court in several judgments and in one of these judgments. And that's what this whole thing comes out of.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u409	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mrs Violeta Tomić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u410	Of course, I expect that we will discuss this, because the RDC in Slovenia has a fully privileged role. If we look at how much of her compensation we've given them for illegally acquired forests. Look, in 1858, she sold them, in 150 years, the RDC owned only three years, and it was on paper, and we were the only ones that came back. 30 million compensation is now required from Slovenia RDC! And that is as much as the upper limit of compensation in Hungary, and Hungary is much larger. 500 million Euros of bank holes have been drained on us by church companies – 60 million with interest now demands the RDC. While the values of forests are as valuable today, we know that between 2010 and 2016 the Agricultural Land Fund invested 38 million euros in the construction of forest roads. And where do you get your sense, I ask you, in a country where so many people can barely survive day in and day out today! Today, 90 million more are worth only the forests of the Nazarje forest economy – and no euro has the country received back from the RCC. You know, and then the Commission for Justice and Peace, signed by Archbishop Anton Stress, who calls for – even criticises the lenient attitude towards anti-government protestors and the evidence of the ideology of public television and the opposition is clear that they are trying to get to power and so on. You know, the Church has enjoyed quite a reputation in its independence, but it has now completely lost it because of this divisive policy. We well know that the thirst of power and of the Catholic Church is always for the people of doom. The fact that the Minister of Culture tells me today that paying contributions to self-employed people in culture is a privilege, while self-employed people work and pay taxes to say such shameless things as the Minister of Culture, while, on the other hand, you give all religious staff the fine privileges, the terrible privileges. For this money, every citizen would be fed up. We wouldn't have the poor in the country. This seems unworthy and unacceptable to me, and I expect that at the next meeting, we actually do this PKP6 and the privileged position of religious servants to support one political option after that and to speak with the preachers of course, “love Janez Janša, otherwise it is a sin”, because they know that he is the only one who rewards them so richly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u411	Thank you very much. Your proposal will also be decided by the National Assembly on Friday in the framework of the vote. Now we have the last question. Natasa Sukic will ask the Minister of the Interior, Mr Aleš Hojs. Here you go, Madam Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u412	Thank you for your word. We stepped into the late night. We've already found ourselves a minister in the curfew, and apparently we're the last Mohicans here today. But we do have a problem: the problem of excessive use of force, the problem of increasing the repression of protestors, and ultimately in many cases, or in most cases by violating the fundamental human rights of protestors. Let's see, on Friday night, October 9, like every Friday night, there were protests against the government of Janez Janša. We know that these protests are totally nonviolent, completely peaceful. They originated in the largest market in the city, the market of the Republic. We know what the architecture of the market is, such as to ensure that people can spread into groups and distance themselves; they say they maintain social distance. They can therefore be associated in groups, as is the case with the current anti-Korona measures. All of this was taken into account by protestors in the majority, but unfortunately, after a few months of recess, we witnessed the police repression of meetings in the Republic Square and later on Trdin Street. According to the testimony of the victims of police violence, we can rightly suspect that the police have used excessive force. For example, in some cases the police have literally attacked peaceful protestors without warning them or, say, legitimizing them. Or if I sum up, say, one piece of letter against police violence in protest. I quote, “in addition, police officers selectively selected their victims. So they chose a famous Slovenian writer and poet Svetlana Makarovič, who stood quietly and alone in the Market of the Republic. They described it and apparently the police filed a complaint with the Health Inspectorate, which is responsible for handling the alleged offence.” And I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Do you find these police procedures, which are acting as if they are mediating some serious disturbances, even though they were not really there, or do you find this to be appropriate and legal? I want to know: As Minister, will you, however, initiate internal control in connection with these Friday events? So many introductorys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u413	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u414	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Member! Dear Mrs Sukič, first of all, I must say that you have spoken mostly about Friday's protests, if I understand you correctly. You have also cited some dates of Friday's protests, not from this last one, so I will also focus more on these Fridays myself. Pretty soon, it seems to me that somewhere in June or July, I have issued guidelines to the police, of course, there is also this document where I wrote that in keeping or maintaining the order of Friday's protests the police should somehow operate absolutely professionally, that the capital should tolerate all provocations and not be the one that would cause any kind of violence. That's what my guidance says. I must say that all of this – in my opinion of course, your assessment is certainly different – was present in all these Fridays. I don't think the police, for the first time, have exceeded their powers; secondly, I don't think they've ever been violent; and thirdly, I think even in all of this display of stand-up tolerance, if I say so, the mockery of the police. I remember those scenes, like, in front of Slavia, where the cops were standing, and there was this lady around the plane with a gun shooting them. Or, for example, let me also say that I think of violence, not only that violence that was visible on Friday, but I think violence is also what your fellow Members are talking about more than once; verbal violence or symbolic violence. Look, verbal violence is on these protests, according to my assessment, I've already said that twice today, has been present since the beginning. Now, we can agree or disagree, but the fact is, there were people out there who were yelling, who needed to be killed in this country. Here before Parliament they stoned the doll of the Prime Minister and burned the doll of me. That doesn't seem entirely nonviolent to me. This is quite horrifying at the symbolic level, especially when we remember those puppets from 2012 hanging there on the Drava Bridge in Maribor, and we know what happened later in Maribor, as well as in Ljubljana, developed. So, in my opinion, all these police approaches in Friday's protests were absolutely at the limit of permissive. I must say, I was also absolutely shocked when I heard some recommendations. I think the Ombudsman said that, but I think we talked about it at the last session, I don't know if you were there, but I think you were at the closed session of Knovs, where it was somehow said, why in Friday's protest – no! – Thursday's protests, these last ones, the police did not identify or legitimize those people who are here in front of parliament – because the supposed Members were warned that you should not, I don't know what time, go out because things will be tense – why the police didn't legitimize those people who were here with some black backpacks, at least that's what was said on that committee. Somehow I made it clear that I think it's a bit of a ruse. If you remember, there was a big press on the police like I said three weeks ago, even the Ombudsman was saying something about how the police allowed themselves to legitimize the people they thought would be able to do something unfair; hence, they violated public order and peace. I think that at the time they identified some people, if I'm not mistaken about the Trubars, which were intended, at least according to the assessment of the police, for these protest meetings. Of course, no one opposes, we have repeatedly said this to protest meetings, which are peaceful, which are, we can say, some performance. I don't think burning dolls is a performance, but okay, okay. Of course, we can't in all these Friday protests despite whether it was one or two Fridays or not, otherwise it was all Fridays, all Fridays alone, that was a violation of the decree. From March until now, the movement limit has been very much highlighted, from ten individuals to fifty and so forth. As you know, at least there were reports, there were always a few hundred at these protests – in the initial phase, I think there were even two thousand or so, police and protestors reported. So in all these cases it was a violation of the decree, and since we have such order in Slovenia, such a law on public gatherings, it is evident that in the absence of an organiser – and on all these Fridays the organizer, at least formally, was not under call, even though we all know who organised it, but formally none as such has proved – that the police are obliged to maintain public order and peace at such unorganized meetings. I think she maintained him very well on all these Fridays, including Thursday, when there were violent protests.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u415	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sukič, please choose a word to complete the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u416	Minister, you've answered my supplementary question a little while ago, but not exactly what I really want to ask you. Yes, Thursday's protest on November 5th was, of course, different from Friday's traditional protests, it was violent, but nevertheless, the police used special means such as water cannon, cavalry and for the first time in history also rubber bullets. We know about rubber bullets, which is an extremely dangerous coercive agent, because they can cause various bodily injuries, such as blindness, disability, and in rare cases, but also death. And only after reporting to the media did the police admit that they used five rubber bullets, which is additionally worrying, because more than apparently you silenced this important information somehow in the first phase. And I'm asking, what was the occasion of this protest? I know he was violent, but yet what was so extraordinary was that it was necessary to use as rubber bullets and, of course, people's lives were at risk. Why were water cannons and cavalry used? We know that water cannons and cavalry are commonly used when protests are very mass, but they were not, they were smaller. And one more thing, Minister, you walked by your side at the time, there were security guards, there were special forces with the right bullets, and I don't know, it's just a very risky act you did. You've caused some new security threat. Someone could have attacked you and used the right bullets. Or, say, the Special Forces were focused on protecting you, but instead of watching the rest of the event, I'm interested in your comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u417	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u418	Thank you, too, for this supplementary question. I was myself, as I've already said, on the Occ; I think it's been there since 17.48. I think it was estimated that the police gathered at this protest between 400 and 600 people, after the first incidents started in the Republic Market and when the police needed to somehow protect and direct this meeting, given that there was no organizer again, after requiring people to break up, they began to disperse or retreat against the Slovenes or against Us or around Chopo Street. I have to say that I was following — I don't know what time it was, but the exact report was given anyway, I think it was there around 6:00 — on the video. This was a live, live camera in OKC, where two ambulances were parked at the intersection of Slovenske and Šubičeva Street, so this is here 100 meters from Parliament. There were also paramedics outside, when this horde of these young men collapsed against the police engine, turned over the police engine, started throwing granite cubes – so granite cubes fell first on the ambulance, which I find absolutely unbelievable – and at that point I remember that the leader or director of the police department who was the leader of this intervention ordered the use of the water cannon. Then the water cannon came along the Slovenian road, people, the protestors ran away in a moment. After about twenty minutes or so — there was no live picture because there was no picture everywhere — there were messages in the OKC that protestors were approaching the Prešeren Square along Milošič’s way, carrying granite cubes in their hands, that there were civilians on the market, and that every force needed to prevent these people from attacking either the police or the passersby. Later, they started smoking or turning some containers against the Magistrate, they broke two or three stands, and at that point, the director of the police assigned a task to use gas against these rioters, so these are the bullets you were talking about. I think it's entirely justified. As far as my arrival is concerned, and I have said several times, I came there with the director of the police and the director of the uniformed police, and all the special forces who were there were in charge of these two, and of course they were also protecting me. I did not assess that this would lead to a greater security risk, because in the area where we came, i.e. at the intersection of Šubičeva and the Slovenian road, the activities related to this action have already been completed and we have come there exclusively and only to thank the police for the successful work done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u419	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Sukič, a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u420	Of course, I also have a procedural proposal. See, everything since Janez Janša's performance is the fact that thousands of citizens and citizens are on Fridays, now not because of the epidemiological situation, they are encroaching on the markets and streets of Slovenian cities. Why? Because people are obviously desperate because of the political situation and want to express their view of what their democratic right is, their opposition is expressed by the ruling politicians or, say, to this twitocracy. Because if you were offended by the fact that the protestors symbolically stoned some dolls, you need to know that people, citizens, are deeply offended by Prime Minister Janez Janša himself, almost at the daily level. But despite the fact that there have been no major incidents, such as such, at these traditional Friday protests, anyhow, the government has, however, somehow without a reasonable reason, been putting pressure on demonstrators, suspending even the freedom of individuals, issuing fines, legitimizing people, even outside the site of protests. There was even a situation where people in Chop were legitimate because the police ruled that they were potential demonstrators or those who went to protest. Can you imagine? Someone looked like a potential protestor and was stopped and suffered a fine! I mean, that's really amazing. It's like in a science fiction movie called Back to the Future, where the main hero meets his mother before she gives birth to him. Indeed, we have such situations or the situation of someone reading peacefully in the Market of the Republic of the Constitution and dragging him violently and putting him in a box. I'm sorry, these aren't the standards of some kind of democracy. The first and so far truly the only incidents, we agree, have occurred on November 5th, but have nothing to do with Friday's protests. In June, these demonstrations were violent, respected ministers, but I cannot buy a story that required such excessive use of special means; water cannon, rubber bullets – what else was there – the cavalry. Well, it happens to me a little too much. Sorry, it's spectacular. It's simple intimidation like in some action film and it's really unnecessary because it irritates people even more. It is necessary to know, I don't know who all these people were at this violent protest, but there are also — and many of them, not all — that they were there from some underground criminal, but desperate people from the brink of society, socially endangered people in this situation. It is necessary to have a little subtlety in this approach, even if [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-16-SDZ8-Izredna-48.ana.u421	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. You have run out of time, and you have not made a procedural proposal, so that the National Assembly will not be able to decide on it. [[advertising from the hall]] You didn't say at the beginning that you wanted to discuss it. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs Sukič, you had a three-minute debate, but you did not make a procedural proposal that the National Assembly should hold a general debate. I'm so sorry. We have thus concluded with today's questions. I thank the ministers for their answers. I conclude the first item of the agenda and interrupt the 48th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. Good evening, everyone!
