ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the continuation of the 37th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly! I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Ferenc Horváth and Felice Žiža. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Proposal for a DECISION ON ADVICE WITH THE REPORT ON THE STATE, REASONS, RESOURCES AND PREPARATIONS OF PERSONAL PROTECTION AND CRITICAL MEDICAL EQUIPMENT ON THE STATEMENT OF THE EPIDEM OF SARS-COV-2 (COVID-19) AND THE BUILDINGS THAT MADE THE SLOVENIA SUCCESSFULLY ACCESSED WITH IT. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. For further explanation, I give the floor to the President of the Government, Janez Janša. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm informed he's on his way, we'll wait a minute. Dear Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it has been time for the Parliament, as far as it is concerned, to be organised in accordance with the epidemiological situation, to say that these measures are being adapted slightly, rather, to the pictures. Well, yeah, by the way, otherwise. [[…]] Dear Mr. President, the well-respected High Council. The government has prepared a report on the acquisitions of protective and critical medical equipment, as well as on the circumstances that have fuelled the procedure used. Now that the report speaks of circumstances, allow me first a few sentences on this. I'm not sitting in this place because the coalition that has bet, in any way, would destroy the previous government, but wanted power, especially at the beginning of the epidemic, but because the previous government threw the rifle into the corn, at the beginning of the epidemic, and because, at that time, it was probably the only constructive option. When we formed this coalition, we invited everyone sitting here today in the opposition. We've asked everyone to come and help. Now, as a result of these requests, you know. Now, despite the fact that there has been no great willingness to help, Slovenia has in these last two months, since, almost exactly two months, it has tamed the epidemic. Today, Slovenia has the best epidemiological picture in Europe, allowing it to cancel the general epidemic, which is likely to be covered by a date with which the first two to the crown of the package also expire. Thus, our planning, in a very difficult situation, was, in practice, until exactly the day, of course, if, on the basis of responsible behaviour on all, these days and weeks, the epidemiological picture remains the same as it is now or will not materially deteriorate. It is said that Slovenia is moving from a period of epidemic to a period of threat of second wave outbreaks, which allows many general measures to be repealed, to remain in force only some specific ones, and so long as this epidemiological image created by delay, as you know, is allowed because of the duration or development of the infection. So now we're going to some stage of the danger of individual outbreaks in the second wave. Now how dangerous you can imagine, if you read in the last days of Seoul news, that's more of a million city, there experienced a second wave that brought this city back to the “lockdown” because one infected person herself visited 4 nightclubs in one night and in 10 days they had to close the city. In fact, at this stage of the future or risk management, 99% is no longer in the hands of the Government or this national assembly, but each individual, depending on whether this good picture will continue in the future. As far as purchasing protective and critical medical equipment is concerned, it has been carried out in accordance with legislation that allows these reduced procedures in case of an epidemic or an emergency in a chaotic state that you have all experienced, and some of you want to forget it very quickly. In some situations the world has not yet experienced. Also because the Government was aware of all these risks in such situations, before you even asked any questions here, the Government decided that all procurement contracts would be made public and published and published publicly. Tell me about some government that has published contracts publicly across the board, even if it was not a critical situation. The government has also itself called on the Court of Auditors to investigate and after three weeks of talking about the Commission of Inquiry, the coalition has even proposed an investigative commission covering the duration of this government's mandate. We'll be able to investigate everything. The first critics appeared in view of the fact that advances were initially required for this equipment. Because this was escalating and we knew where the water was going, they decided at the competent ministry that they would try to get this equipment without advances. This means that those who were providers of this equipment had to make these advances themselves or obtain appropriate bank guarantees. As a result, the state has lost nothing at these risks. I think there is currently no European country that has paid advances for this equipment and would have everything delivered in accordance with these advances. The simple equipment is missing or the equipment that was not in line with the order, with the certificates in Chinese, and they simply had only two options or they refuse it and the equipment they do not have, they demand back the advance, so far no one has received them, as I know, anywhere. This has been the case for dozens, hundreds of probably, or they simply agree to be cheated. I don't know a European country where this wouldn't have happened. I've spoken to a lot of colleagues. Everyone had these problems. As far as these losses are concerned, I think that Slovenia has lost at least if there is any advance at all. By the way, we got our first shipment from the European Commission this week, I think 300,000 surgical masks. We said thank you very much. Today an urgent dispatch has come from the European Commission, so that we should not share these gifted masks because they are only now looking at certificates that are inadequate. Today. The European Commission, which has 10,000 officials who initially had major problems with everything. But after the competent ministry has decided not to pay advances, at this point in time, if I am not mistaken, and the minister will probably say so himself, it was paid for about 30 million deliveries and all that was paid, it was also delivered, which was not delivered, and it was not paid. As long as I talk to my colleagues elsewhere in Europe, they have a much worse situation, a significantly worse situation. Well, but then, when for some of them, of course, the advances were no longer a problem, because they were gone, they started talking about margins, now what margins are here. I do not know what margins were for individual suppliers, because in those first weeks everything was purchased, only to meet minimum standards, all contracts were published, everything to be checked, etc., just as once indicated, partly also in the report, were the highest margins for suppliers, which are classic standard suppliers to Slovenian health care for this protective equipment, there were the highest margins. And all the problems started when many of these obviously didn't come along, but the competent ones today called whistleblowers signed contracts with the highest margins, and with the old suppliers there were the biggest problems. And now, of course, attention is simply being diverted. But each contract can be checked separately and there is no problem here, and the Minister of Economy has already said in the first week that it will probably be three years after the epidemic is over, he will go to various investigative committees to explain, but that was the period when it was just about life and what he did during that period with many colleagues on the trade reserves and at other ministries that engaged him saved dozens of lives. In Slovenia, COVID-19 disease, thank God, has killed more than ten times less people per head or one million people than in neighbouring Italy as in the United Kingdom than in Belgium, etc. More than ten times less. By the fact that many of these countries are not neighbours' hotspots, Italy and virtually all of these countries had at the time of the outbreak of the government, which had been in the saddle for months, years, half a mandate, but not the governments that came one day after the outbreak was declared, and we didn't want to open it, but also those epidemics that were declared illegal on March 12th, were declared illegal, and it was not under the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, which the Government had to do, because the government of Mr Šarc did not want to do so, and Mr Šabeder did not want to do so. There is a rich correspondence about what happened last week before we took up the mandate and look, it will be very interesting when this is investigated. The first thing we had to do on March 13th is to legally correct the announcement, otherwise all the measures would be null and void. Now what was in between was nothing, but another question and it doesn't make sense to even deal with it now. So everyone who, at the time of the epidemic, makes such a noise around this protective medical equipment. For the first time in two months, it would be the same. There's no other country in the world where what's going on here is happening because the opposition would be running what you're running. We invited you along with the coalition, invited you to join us when you received the crown packages, we sent you all the materials for the second law instead of getting comments from you you went to press conferences to criticize some drafts. Now, if that's constructive, thank you very much. As far as I'm concerned, that's what I'm getting. My e-mail addresses came up with hundreds of different messages, offers, emergency services, proposals for these purchases. Anyone who thought he had any contact was just sending something. I've got dozens of e-mails and I'm going to say, by the way, distinguished entrepreneurs from opposition parties who offered help. I have not publicly discredited any of them, because I take all these things for granted also, I don't know, an attempt by Mr. Jew to intervene and help. There were probably some war profiteers involved, but the vast majority of people were well-intentioned, they wanted to help, and now things are turning completely in a crazy direction. We still have a crisis. The epidemic is likely to officially end this month. Some measures will continue to apply only now we have a recession at the door and a great deal of efforts to be made to avoid depression from the recession. All that is happening now in terms of obstructing these measures, overthrowing the government, this is beyond a reasonable framework. They are also protesting against measures to contain the epidemic in Switzerland, Germany, in countries that are referred to as extreme parties to be held there. In these protests, you do not see any Member or opposition. Slovenia is here. I'm going to say a big exception. Here you wear masks outside you make selfies in a bra at a time when it's forbidden. Now, what example is given? The future of control of the epidemic is not dependent on decisions and it is not dependent on 25% of people sticking to some new customs that need to be adopted. It depends on whether we all stick to it, because a small minority can endanger the health and lives of all or just many. Now I'm going to read something else. In Slovenia, the Penal Code applies. This law states in Article 297: “Who publicly promotes or propagates hatred by force on intolerance, which is based on national, racial, religious or ethical affiliation, sex, skin colour, origin, property status, education, social status, political or other belief” says anyone who publicly promotes or promotes hatred or intolerance based on political or other belief “and this act is done in a manner that may endanger or disturb public order and peace or by the use of threat is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years. If the act referred to in the preceding paragraphs is committed by publication of the means of public information on the websites, the penalties referred to in paragraph 1 or 2 of this Article shall also be imposed on the responsible editor and so on." Dear colleagues, where you go well and you are invited to die, death is a public threat. They wear T-shirts with a death threat, they say they're wearing people who are famous. Death threatens to occur at meetings of the governing bodies of radio broadcasting, public broadcasting. For three hours, the session was held, and for three hours they sat under the banner, which threatened to die, the 220 thousand who voted for the Slovenian Democratic Party. And at a time when the party was in opposition. He's threatening to die directly to me. This image is published as something quite common on the website of public television. Despite what is stated in the Penal Code, which I quote, here I am asking you, I am asking the police, the prosecution, the courts, whether we have a legal state or laws that apply to all the same things in Slovenia - whether it can be threatened with the death of those you consider to be second graders. This sort of thing happened in Berlin in the 1930s, and we know what came out of it. Such things were happening in Belgrade at the confluence of Sava and Danube in 1989, and then what happened? The first victim was Serbian President Ivan Stambolic, who was killed and buried on the Frustrian Mountain. And that's not a problem. It's no problem. I believe it's hard to listen. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Because you're there. I think it's about time you stepped on the brakes here. In addition to fighting the epidemic with the vast majority of the population of this country, this government has taken a number of measures that you have confirmed in this National Assembly, so that this epidemic has not affected the majority of the population that are the weakest. Dear colleagues from the SD, when you were in 2009 the government, when it was similar to the fall of a gross domestic product, or then the pensioners received some kind of solidarity supplement, they received it from the students, they got it from the families, they got it from the farmers? At every third meeting of your government in 2009, you gave another 200 million for the banks. Nothing for people. The only measure that was good at the time was the financing of part-time work, which is still ahead of us. that these are solidarity and social. [[Incomprehensible]] Were we then protesting whether anyone threatened to die? The situation, however, was much more critical and unfair. In 2013, those of you who were in the government at the time, and those who, for example, bought shares in the New Credit Bank Maribor, which was signed at the IPU, took the sums of half a billion 500 million. But you gave those 500 million to those who emptied two of Thakun's banks, Factor and Probanko. And due to the fact that we still have procedures in the courts and in European courts. Finally, Slovenian taxpayers will give a billion euros for this when it is all over. This government is acting differently in this situation. I think that this is a major problem for some, but that the measures are good also show the European Commission's assessments. This year we will be affected, the gross domestic product will fall slightly less than the average of the European Union. But thanks to the measures taken, directly in the European Commission's spring forecast, we can grow by about the same percentage in the second year. Which means that if we can act wisely, the well-being of people in Slovenia will not be significantly affected. But that is certainly not, we cannot reach this goal in this way, in this atmosphere, which is now being created when ministers have to write reports, sit at extraordinary meetings of working bodies for hours and hours and interrupt sessions and again and so on. No opposition does that anywhere in the world at the time of the epidemic, and then there is no time for other things. And those who were before in the government, you left us an administration that is worse than we've ever inherited from any government. Most things ministers have to do themselves. You say you have a lot of ideas on how to solve the situation. Look, our doors are still open. If anyone has good ideas, they want to help, we can expand the coalition at any time. Come along, help, take responsibility, and we'll go through this situation much easier. So these are the key questions. Now, how to overcome the recession, how to prevent the depression that will kill us as much as the last economic crisis, when we were most affected, is the longest in recession except for Greece from all European countries. What to do is to make more investments to remove administrative obstacles, not to help those who try to further delay procedures, from the Slovenian Environment Agency we inherited 400 projects that stand to represent tens of thousands of new jobs, due to individuals who declare themselves to be a non-governmental organisation and once the building permit is complete, they file complaints and last years that they are legal. Now, instead of going here together and doing that, I'm going to say all the necessary environmental protection concerns, looking for productive solutions, this is what the front is against, even though you know for yourself that this is a huge problem in the country. So we now appeal that we move from some stage of bargaining to at least this stage of cooperation while we are in a situation where we really need to act innovatively every day to solve current problems and make plans for those we know will come. As has already been said, the invitation is as it was at the beginning of this mandate, who wants to help come along, to put ideas on the table, to propose people who are capable and certainly Slovenia will be much more successful in this way. If you want to crash, do it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and according to the procedure that is normal, it will not take too long. But I warn you not to walk over the edge of the law. With these threats, we walk over the edge of the law and call ourselves over Slovenia a situation that we all believed would never happen again at the time of independence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft decision was examined by the Committee on the Economy. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branislav Rajic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft decision at its 20th meeting on 8 May 2020. Qualified applicants have not tabled any amendments to the proposal for a decision. At the meeting, proposals were submitted for amendments to the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS Committee amendments to the preamble to paragraphs 1 and 2, which were adopted by the Committee after the discussion. At the meeting, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the written opinion of the Service. In doing so, she commented on the reference to Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and the substance of point 2 of the proposal for a decision and the legal basis for the adoption of such content. With regard to the proposals for amendments to the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS Committee of Members of the SDS, paragraphs 1 and 2, it explained that the content referred to in point 2 was only transferred and therefore the concerns of the service remained for them. At the meeting, the representatives of the Government presented a proposal for a decision with a government report and answered all the questions and dilemmas of the discussers. A representative of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia also attended the meeting, who provided an explanation regarding the issue of the Court’s decision to introduce a review of the value of the purchases of protective equipment. In the debate, some discussers objected to the procedure for examining the draft decision and considered that it did not have a legal basis for its adoption in the National Assembly. With regard to the content, the opinion was expressed that the government's report at the time shows the situation and procurement procedures unilaterally. Some discussers pointed out that no country had been prepared for the epidemic and expressed the view that the previous government had acted proactively in view of the situation and that its measures were appropriate and proportionate. However, the decentralised procedures for purchasing protective equipment by public health institutions were evaluated positively. They criticised the measures taken by the new government and the centralised procedures for the procurement of goods through the Department of Freight Reserves. They considered that these were not transparent, not traceable, not rational and were subject to corrupt risk. That some experts and decision makers have been subjected to pressure from ministers, politicians and other influential stakeholders with a view to making the purchase of goods by specific suppliers. They also challenged the purchase of goods through intermediaries. On the contrary, other discussers pointed out that when the new government took over the store, the protective equipment was empty. That the purchase of protective equipment on the world market had already been severely hampered, the supply of orders was uncertain and from day to day. That professional and healthcare professionals were deeply concerned about the critical lack of protective equipment. Some discussers have highlighted the importance of centralising procurement, which they believe has made a decisive contribution to the Government’s timely delivery of sufficient protective equipment. It was felt that the measures taken in the crisis situation had been timely and effective and that the project for the acquisition of protection equipment in crisis situations had been successful. The fact that Slovenia was able to protect the health and lives of its citizens in the first wave of the epidemic in the fight against the virus was highlighted. In doing so, Slovenia was among the countries that recorded the least fatalities and the measures in Slovenia were not the most rigorous. Discussants have also allowed the possibility to make any errors in procurement procedures that the competent authorities will verify and to take action in the event of irregularities, abuses or infringements detected, in accordance with their respective competences. They stressed the importance of good coordination and cooperation between different sources and stakeholders and the importance of experience from the first wave of the epidemic for the necessary action in the event of a new wave of the epidemic. The Committee adopted the amendments to the preamble by 1st and 2nd points of the proposal for a decision. The Committee voted on the parts of the draft decision and adopted them all. In the light of the amendments adopted and pursuant to Article 171 and Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the text of the supplementary proposal for a decision incorporated in the amendments shall be prepared. The amended proposal for a decision is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Miha Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, chairman. If the laws in this country were to be applied in the same way as was asked by Prime Minister Janez Janša, then Janez Janša himself would be sitting in prison right now, his government would be sitting in prison with him. And we have him here as Prime Minister when he's lying and lying and lying for half an hour. Not every time John Janša is in power, the commission does not go to heaven, but we know that this is happening. It started with the arms trade in the '90s, continued with the patriots and now with the protective equipment. And of course, it did not surprise anyone that the government report by John Janša revealed that the government of John Janš was not to blame. In this report on the acquisition of protective equipment, we do not find much evidence. But that's why it's so much richer with lies that defend the battle profit of suppliers associated with coalition parties. Acquisition of protective equipment and developments at the Department of Freight Reserves is an attack by the Janša government on the country under the Hungarian scenario in small. For the first time, throwing public money to capitalist intermediaries reveals the government's class nature - the choice of business to the detriment of people. Secondly, since this money goes only to suppliers with the right party foreshadow, there are also strategies for the consolidation of the far right power in the war profit. Thirdly, the use of all possible forms of pressure and staffing is the political technology of impact. And for the fourth time, the brutal defeat of experts and whistleblowers is the pen of government repression, which beats the whole country when government propaganda fails. The loss of tens of millions by purchasing protective equipment through intermediaries was not an unfortunate decision or a consequence of a difficult situation, it was a conscious decision by the government of Janez Janša. In order to reach out to its economic allies, it refused to purchase through an interstate agreement with China. If you get one overpaid contract in over 200 million transactions, that's a mistake. If you get two overpaid contracts, it's an accident. Twenty or more on a lot of overpaid deliveries, that's what consciously organized crime is. In this way, several tens and more million euros have disappeared from the budget. We don't even have the exact numbers. If the government's report were fair enough, they could be traced back. But it's not because, of course, he rules his own crime and theft on a large scale. But the plundering of the country was even a minor problem compared to the fact that the deliberate rejection of direct purchases in favour of commissions highlighted the population of COVID-19 as unnecessary. Caregivers in nursing homes were at the heart of the epidemic because of government negligence. 65 of them died. Nurses and other workers were also in shock and shop workers, factory proletarians, UKC staff and other health institutions, of course, all others. All this crowd of hardworking people, going to work in the epidemic, did not run out of adequate protection because of the market situation as a government, but because the same government decided not to buy the equipment directly. And if commissions require health risks and deaths among the population, it is for John Janša, his coalition and government acceptable to the victims of war profits. From the beginning, we called for different treatments and direct acquisitions. In order to do so, several countries have shown themselves in our European neighbourhood, such as Germany. Croatia - €5.5 million for 60 tonnes of protective material, logistics included. Well, for a third of this, that is 20 tonnes, only for transport paid 5.5 million euros to capitalist Pecečnik. After yesterday's disclosures on 24 hours, we could see how Acron put 16.6 million in commissions, and the margin was up to 140%. Well, it's only two jobs. The rest aren't much better. If they were in a normal country, everyone involved would have stepped down, headed by the Minister of Economy, Mr Zdravko Restovalski. But not in Slovenia. Here the far-right power, full of budget cuts, parliament, police and media, defends commissions with lies. At first, they claimed that direct purchases could not be possible because the legislation prohibited them, but what quickly proved that they did not. The legal provisions referred to by the Ministry of the Economy do not exist at all, as the Court of Auditors also pointed out. They then changed their response: the company's production is said to require 100 % of the advance, because there is still too much risk for the country. But, look at the fraction, the full advance, the state also indicated to the intermediary companies, and with them the wings not only cost but also commission fees – the finer trade received almost EUR 600,000 in advance for masks, and again this is just one example. And even after all these disclosures came to the public, Minister Restoring continued to insist that these advances were not happening at all, or otherwise, in the face of everyone, the minister continued to lie. Since they were already caught in another lie, the government ladies and gentlemen have turned the story into a third, a “saying” that they themselves cannot, and it is also a lie. All other countries have used their diplomatic networks to ensure the quality of equipment at source and to support logistics. Even Slovenia could if you just wanted to. But she didn't want to. The SAZU letter, with its offer from China, with low prices, large quantities and inclusive transport, is only one of the offers. The others, we don't know. First of all, they only opened their envelopes on the government, no matter how many were left in the drawer. Not only, in rejecting favourable direct purchases, Minister Restoration in defence of crime and crime is also lying in concrete transactions and the government of Janez Janša is lying with him. But surely none of these gentlemen save lives. This is done by healthcare professionals, in nursing homes, and elsewhere. It is common for them to be played by the authorities for the promised supplements and to leave them without adequate protection against the epidemic because of commissions for their intermediaries. No wonder the Government replaced the Director General of Police at its first session on 13 March. If the whole country is watching them steal, they must at least be protected from persecution. How? Hitting the police. The appointment of a SDS soldier, Anton Travner, to the top of the police, a suspected misuse of public funds, was quickly followed by the exchange of the first criminalist. This became an SDS official, Vojko Urbas, previously involved in sexual harassment specialist for wiretaps and other special methods. And for the finals, the government also controlled the Slovenian FBI, the National Bureau of Investigation, so they wouldn't get hurt. Apparently, there were commissions in the first place, just like in the arms and patriot trade. The SDS is ready to do everything for the government. Since his last chance in 2012, Janez Janša has concluded that in previous attempts he was not radical enough because he did not defeat all the opposition in Parliament because he did not defeat all opposition outside Parliament because he did not take all the media, the crown is for him and for them, only a handy tool, for a coup on the Hungarian model. Unfortunately, the political environment has been feeding him a lot, and it has brought him to power in the first place. By creating social misery and political drifts to the right, from pure opportunism, at least the previous two governments have routed the far right. The same central ones that brought the SDS to power will not be removed from the political space. The far right will only be preserved over and over again, from the central government to the central government, to the final fascism. The transition from the political middle to the extreme right is continuous, logical, slide into darkness. But the masks fell. They were torn apart by research journalists, whistleblower Ivan Gale and Dr. Richard Knafel, who were hit by 10,000 bicycles. You, ladies and gentlemen, are a waste of money. You will return the fees with interest. Your coup against the country will defend the backbone of solidarity and community. Prosperity for people, democracy in the country, upright stance in politics, bikes on the street, rotten compromises extreme right hands are cancelled. This is the path of democratic socialism. Death of fascism, freedom of the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u7	The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. My friend Andrey Chernigoy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Respectable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Slovenia, Europe and the world have been forced to face a number of challenges, which have fundamentally changed our actions, opinions and overall, our perception of life. Life and human dignity are a key building block for the creation of the European Union and a very important foundation for the Christian Democrats. After the unexplained resignation of the previous Prime Minister of the Government, in the most challenging times of this decade, which has left citizens and citizens at great risk due to political overcalculability while calling for early elections, we were prepared to form a new government in New Slovenia. The new Slovenia and the whole government have taken the necessary measures on the day of the oath in the National Assembly, which have significantly contributed to the very good and encouraging results in the fight against the COVID-19 virus, for which we receive recognition and praise in the EU Member States and in the international foreign media. Christian Democrats are aware of the great effort that has been made by every citizen facing the epidemic and its consequences in these times of crisis. A sincere thanks to civil protection, to all health workers, mayors, firefighters and all the volunteers who have unselfishly stepped together and saved Slovenia from the worst consequences. Unfortunately, the battle against the virus is not enough, but it is necessary to fight the invisible enemy professionally with protective equipment, especially with swift and correct decisions in the government and in the temple of democracy. Our warehouses of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for freight reserves were almost empty when handed over with protective equipment. The stock was not sufficient for the urgent need in the Republic of Slovenia or for one day. In this place again, at the state logistics centre in Roja on 16 March 2020, 93 thousand 500 surgical masks, 2 thousand masks FFP1, 1 thousand masks FFP2, 3 thousand 400 masks FFP3 and a million 514 thousand 380 latex gloves, 8 thousand 649 protective suits and the last 374 protective glasses were available. Despite the fact that the World Health Organization warned in the early days of March that the world’s supply of medical equipment is declining rapidly due to increasing demand, accumulation of equipment, and abuse. However, the government of Marjan Šarc did not listen to this and did not provide sufficient spare protective equipment. She also expressed her concern about the state of supply of protective equipment in a statement at the end of February, as well as the Medical Chamber of Slovenia. At that time, Prime Minister Sarec almost mocked the statement, and I quote: “It’s like saying that police officers are afraid of firearms.” This further points to Mr Sarc's attitude towards this issue and further explains the reasons for the lack of equipment for health personnel during the period following the new government's oath. World demand for masks and other medical equipment exceeded world production several times in the second half of March, which represented an almost insurmountable situation for the new government in providing protective equipment. The price and availability of protective equipment varied from minute to minute. The Government has proposed the establishment of an inter-ministerial working group to receive, review and evaluate the supply of protective equipment to prevent the spread of communicable diseases, and the Government has adopted this proposal. The tasks of the Interdepartmental Group, which had successfully completed its work in the meantime, were the reception and review of individual offers of protective equipment, the evaluation of protective equipment in terms of the fulfilment of technical standards and the transmission of offers of protective equipment that met the required conditions in the subsequent procedure of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Reservicing Goods, which carried out the procurement procedure and concluded the contract for the supply of protective equipment. In Novi Slovenija we are aware of the seriousness of the situation we are in, so we also agreed with the coalition and opposition parties that the Government must prepare a comprehensive report, which we have already discussed on the Committee on the Economy and today we are considering in the National Assembly. We have carefully read the report prepared by the government in the parliamentary group and have drawn some important conclusions. The former government underestimated the threat of the epidemic and the consequences for Slovenia were much worse than they could have been. As a result, much harder efforts and more stringent measures were needed to combat the epidemic, which is and will lead to a greater economic crisis than it would otherwise have been. Another time. In hospitals we had a significant shortage of beds for intensive care, and last time the executive branch of the authorities did not order a quarantine for those returning from infected Italian hotspots. On the other hand, the current Government has prepared a detailed report accompanying the numerical annexes from which all relevant and key data can be obtained. From this we can conclude that the current Government has been very successful in providing equipment, and as a result our warehouses are ready and medical personnel can be at ease so that they will no longer face such a shortage of equipment. In the Slovenian media and political space, we have recently faced possible allegations of crimes. In addition, some in the National Assembly make it very easy for others to accuse with harsh words. The position of Nova Slovenije – Christian Democrats is that in the Republic of Slovenia we have the relevant competent institutions, which, on the basis of all the documents available, can also thoroughly investigate and provide the relevant findings. All the different forms of accounting and calls for protests and early elections, when we have a successful and solid coalition, but at the same time we have not won the war against an invisible enemy, we regard it as legitimate, but nothing state-made fighting for power. Finally, I would like to inform the National Assembly, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that the Parliamentary Group of Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will support the decision to familiarise themselves with the report on the state, reasons, stocks, orders of personal protection and critical medical equipment when declaring the COVID-19 epidemic and the acquisitions that have enabled Slovenia to successfully deal with it. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u10	Your Honor, the President! Colleagues and colleagues! Initially, I recall that the need to prepare the report was triggered by recent discoveries in the Tarč show, in which many of the facts about the dirty and overpaid purchase of protective equipment were witnessed. The former assistant director of the Department of Trade Reserves has also revealed irregularities to the public, now known as the “Winter2. After this broadcast, the media have been overrun by news that the ruling coalition has misused not only to lower democratic standards in the country but also to make war profits. When, under the pretext of saving people, a determined individual allegedly earned a gratuitous salary and uncontrolledly spent public funds, I repeat, public funds. After receiving the hard-to-see government report, it became clear that we will not receive the required answers from the ruling authorities. The report is nothing more than a political document indicating the view of the existing coalition and its ministers on the effectiveness of the fight against the new crown virus. The government, with an existing report, protects its kind and condemns the previous Government, for example, does not explain why supplies were not made directly and by means of intermediaries, how the selection of tenderers, how the selection of such and other tenderers took place, was there actually overpayments, were the acquisition of protective equipment transactions really clean? If I conclude from the report, apart from the accusations of the former government, we've learned nothing, absolutely nothing. In doing so, we stress that the two parties were part of the former coalition and are now members. It is known that the key resources for controlling the crown of the virus are the economy, defence and health. The economy is now run by the new SMC minister, while the defence department in the previous government was owned by Desus, who is now in charge of health care. That is why it is not easy to refer to the previous Government as a whole, because we cannot throw all the customers in the same basket. After the resignation of the Prime Minister, the former coalition was no longer meeting, so we did not have data on the functioning of the ministries with the exception of our three. The government reports on its work to the National Assembly, and the National Assembly can only get acquainted with the contents of the report. Contrary to established business practice, the Government has itself drawn the political conclusions that suggest that the previous Government has been working with itself and that the current Government is doing well on the basis of a report based on a paper prepared by the Government itself. Such an attempt to advance the Government to determine what the National Assembly would find constitutes a grave breach and an intervention by the executive branch of the legislature, which the Legislative and Legal Service has also made very clear. The fact is, things simply need to get to the bottom and let individuals answer for their actions if they are found to be in violation. For the money of taxpayers must be dealt with transparently, effectively and in the spirit of a good master at all times. In this story, however, public money was no longer under control. He wasn't. I recall that in the SAB as the first opposition party, shortly after the epidemic was declared, we have warned that public money spending requires additional control over the allocation and use of funds for crisis purposes. It is right to save money in times of crisis, but not to spend taxpayers' money, so it is most important for a client of the SAB to explore and explore all aspects, including the conduct of the previous government if irregularities occurred. However, I would like to point out that the violations of this or the previous Government will forever be swept under the carpet if we allow the Government to assess itself in the National Assembly. In the SAB Group, we cannot vote in favour of a decision that opposes the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by Mr Desus, a fellow Member of Parliament, Mr Leipzig.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u12	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the Desus Group we welcome a comprehensive and thorough report on the state, reasons, stocks and orders of personal protective equipment and medical equipment when the COVID-19 epidemic is declared. There are many things we can say that it is better to be too careful than too little. In the current situation, we can see how she's holding up. The state of stocks of protective equipment at the time of the outbreak, which can be detected in the report, is incomprehensible, but on the other hand expresses the reality that Slovenia, as many other countries, has not been prepared for the situation. On 20 February 2020, the Council of the European Union strongly urged Member States to monitor the necessary and appropriate measures, we received data that the prices of protective equipment were rising and the delivery deadlines were increasing. Minister of Health of the former Government, Mr Aleš Šabeder, signed an order on the declaration of the epidemic, which entered into force on 12 March 2020, following advice and pressure from the healthcare profession and the newly emerging coalition. 14. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has taken a firm approach to the resolution of the population and the economy. The purchase of protective equipment and the preparation of aid packages have thus run out. Despite the potential danger, we have shown Slovenians that we can overcome all the challenges. We started sewing and making our masks, making prototypes of respirators that are key in dealing with the effects of the disease in the worst cases. We stepped together by stepping apart. In the Desus Group, we are aware that the situation in which we have been in a single country is not yet remembered, but we point out that the finger - pointing is premature. The Commission of Inquiry, which will examine the entire procurement process and developments that have taken place around the protective equipment, will show irregularities and accountability if this is the case. Only then can we call for the responsibility of those who have made mistakes. However, we must accept the fact that many things could be done in 13. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but it was not done. However, we must admit that the situation was chaotic, the world was fraught with crisis and the equipment was not enough, and production was under great pressure. The full adoption of protective measures to contain the epidemic, including the acquisition of protective and critical medical equipment, has thus taken place in exceptional circumstances. There were mistakes, but there was a lot of good work going on. We have successfully slowed the spread and have largely prevented the worst consequences. We are on the right track that this is not the right time for political accounting, but for compatibility. There's a long way to the finish line. We must be aware of the right to oppose decisions on the current measures, but it is necessary to place on the scale the price that might be paid for this. Does the health threat in this period really have so little value that we can be against the measures, I wonder? If we are not already concerned about our health, let us be concerned about the health of all others whom we can endanger by doing so. Members of the DeSUS Group acknowledge the fact that there have been many challenges to purchasing protective equipment. They had no experience with such purchases, and they also had very little time to make decisions. That is why we believe the State Secretary's statement at the Ministry of the Economy that they acted in the best faith. However, unless there is an irregularity in the process itself, which the Commission of Inquiry will also demonstrate, the competent authorities should certainly act accordingly. But it is not the end of the story of the coronavirus in Slovenia and around the world. We have successfully endured the first wave, but it has left behind profound economic consequences. The measures we have taken have been aimed at the current resolution of the population and the economy. At this point, we have successfully protected people, as other countries have acknowledged. Unfortunately, the economy will take years to recover. With treatment and protective equipment, we have gained a lot of experience in dealing with the virus. In the next expected waves of a new outbreak of COVID-19 among the population, we will be better prepared. Also in purchases that are about to develop well-established procedures that will reduce errors and attempts to exploit them. But as long as we're human, they'll be among those who want to take advantage of the situation. The important thing is that we have learned something from this story and that with our heads raised, we can stand on what we have achieved together. Slovenia has successfully dealt with the epidemic. Members of the DeSUS Group will therefore today vote in favour of the proposal for a decision proposed by the Committee on the Economy by removing the nominal responsibility of the holders of public functions, as this will be decided by other investigative bodies. For the DeSUS Group, it is important that the National Assembly is informed of the Government's report, which in its work is certainly responsible to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Suzanne Leup Šimenko. [[Microphone, if you turn it off.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a very detailed report on the purchase of protective and critical medical equipment prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The report covers a period of three months and, as such, refers to the period of the Government of Marjan Šarc and the period of the Government of Janez Janša. However, the report, which is distributed on 83 pages, allocates more than three quarters of the space to activities at the time of the current Government. It includes a review of the procurement orders and delivered deliveries made after days, the activities of the authorities involved and accompanied by all the minutes. And we walk through the content and course of events. The COVID-19 epidemic erupted at the end of 2019 in Wuhan, China, and spread rapidly around the world. The first case of the virus in Europe was found in France and Germany by the end of January 2020. In Italy, where the main focus of the epidemic in Europe was, however, the first case was found in early February, we know in Slovenia that this was 4 March 2020. The COVID-19 epidemic has been responded differently by the European Union countries, and most countries have thus taken the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the disease. The first measures concerned the establishment of border and health checks on passengers, in particular those coming from neighbouring Italy. There were bans on events, closure of schools and kindergartens, restrictions on movement and so on. In view of the rapid spread of the epidemic, the European Union countries had to engage very quickly in the procurement of protective equipment, in particular due to the widely known experience from China and Italy, it was essential to provide protective equipment, first of all for hospital and health personnel providing care to patients. Due to the lack of adequate resources, a large number of health personnel have been infected in both China and Italy. And how did Slovenia react? Following numerous calls from the Medical Chamber and Health Institutions, the Government decided on 27 February only to use protective equipment from the stores for 48 thousand protective masks, 5,000 overalls, 500 000 gloves and dust for disinfectants, but without deciding to replace this equipment quickly and adequately with situations of appropriate quantities. We're talking about 13. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which on 27 February had only decided to release from the stocks the available remedies, which were sufficient only for a few days, and ordered the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia to replace the funds issued by 31 December 2020. On 3 March, the World Health Organisation found that since the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus, personal protective equipment prices have increased significantly. For example, the prices of surgical masks for six times, the prices of N95 respirators for three times. The World Health Organisation has also found that the supply deadlines for protective equipment have increased enormously and that the supply may take months, as well as the spread of market manipulation and that stocks are often sold to the highest bidders. These findings should also be an important signal for appropriate action in Slovenia, but this has not been the case. Article 2 of the Law on Trade Reserves provides that stocks are to be created to provide basic supply needs for permanent disturbances and market instability in the face of major natural and other disasters. Of course, the Government determines which goods are included in the basic supply, when these goods are used from stocks, when and how they are replaced. In view of the already known facts that adequate protective equipment should be provided, since the quantity of this equipment in Slovenia was not limited due to high demand on the world market, the Government should define adequate protective equipment as basic supplies and immediately initiate procedures for its procurement. However, 13. The government, the government of Marjana Sharca, did not do any of this in time. 14. The government took an oath on 13 March 2020 and began its work on the first night. First, what they had to face, of course, were empty warehouses of protective equipment. The condition of the protective equipment in the cargo reserves on 16 March was only 2 000 700 pieces of light protective suits, just over 5,000 pieces of high-security protective suits, FFP-1 masks 7,000 pieces, FFP-2 masks and FFP-3 masks of 900 pieces, of which a thousand 500 pieces have already expired. The equipment that was in stock at the time of our transfer to our Government was not enough to protect health workers for a few days, but others who were directly exposed to the risk of infection. This, of course, makes sense to remind us that it is 13. On 13 February 2020, the Government announced that Slovenia had dispatched material aid in the form of 1.2 million protection masks to the People’s Republic of China for the control of the coronavirus. However, given the amount of protective equipment we had in Slovenia at the time, the Slovenian Government should have the protection of Slovenian citizens at the forefront. On 13 February, it was also the day of an extraordinary meeting of the European Union Health Ministers, so we would expect the Government to adequately complement the supply of protective equipment and not empty our warehouses on the other hand. As President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Marjan Šarec acted in a way that was more than obvious and knowingly violated Article 4 of the Law on Freight Reserves, since, despite the warnings of the Council of the EU, the Medical Chamber did not propose that the protective equipment necessary to deal with the epidemic be placed in basic supplies and that the stocks resulting from the threatening epidemic be substantially increased. Moreover, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec has deceived the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, health and other institutions by stating that Slovenia has sufficient stock and that a comprehensive plan has been prepared for the outbreak of the crown virus, which the Government will activate if necessary. This was, of course, not the truth, because Slovenia had no such plan. Only a list of possible practices was made in accordance with the Infectious Diseases Act, in the case of an outbreak of the common flu, and this act had no characteristics of the State plan. The Management Board for Protection and Rescue has drawn up a plan of its actions and a list of the potential actions of other authorities, which, of course, was without the accompanying drafts of the necessary acts. It provided for only 7,000 protective masks. Slovenia is a border country with Italy, where Covida-19 was the largest epicenter in Europe. In Italy, the state of emergency was declared on 31 January 2020 and on 22 February, isolation was consolidated due to the epidemic in 10 Italian cities. The epidemic spread very rapidly in Italy, requiring a huge number of deaths, which according to media coverage has been widely known to us. Despite the fact that we are bordering with Italy and that many Slovenians have taken mass skiing trips to Italy during school holidays and there was a high risk of spreading the virus from Italy, Marjan Sarec as President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not ensure that the government would take appropriate measures in time to limit the transmission and spread of the virus. Like most neighbouring countries did back then. There was no border inspection of passengers during winter vacations with Italy, nor was only isolation assigned to these people. Due to the passivity of former Prime Minister Marjan Šarc, it was only a matter of time before we would face the first infection in Slovenia, and the first case of infection occurred after 4 March 2020, an infected person who, according to publicly available information, arrived through Italy to Slovenia. Prior to the confirmed first infection, the then Prime Minister was informed of the profession’s warnings about the lack of protective equipment and the need to take the necessary measures to prevent the spread of the virus. But he ignored all those warnings. This is also confirmed by his statements made to the public. On 27 February, at a press conference following the government meeting, he said: "Civil protection will be included, if there are more patients, then the military, sanitation and others will be involved, but we are not there yet. Therefore, those who have called for the closure of the borders only spread panic.” He also said: “The statement that doctors are afraid of the virus is legitimate but does not contribute to the calming of the public. Experience from neighbouring Italy has shown that very sharp measures have not prevented the spread of the disease.” He also said: "It is entirely inappropriate that healthy people coming from abroad, including from endangered areas, remain on the hospital stock." On 8 March, Mr Marjan Sarec continued to insist that we do not have an epidemic and that there was no reason for the National Security Council to call earlier. The reference would probably not even have been made if the then mandate holder had not insisted on the composition of 14. The government, Mr Janez Janša, has repeatedly highlighted the need for a public call. On 11 March, the mayor of Šmarja pri Jelšah voluntarily closed schools because of the critical situation in the municipality. The following day, Education Minister Jernej Pikalo responded with dismay that the mayors do not have the legal basis for closing schools, which he holds, but on the other hand, the mayor is obliged to protect the citizens. Later, of course, his decisions proved to be correct. It was not until 11 March 2020 that the government of Marjana Sharca ordered the Ministry of Health to obtain the necessary protective equipment in accordance with Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act. On 12 March, Marjan Šarec announced that they would declare the epidemic and, for a reason, indicate an easier organisation of work. At that time, Minister of Health Aleš Šabeder signed an order declaring the epidemic, which entered into force on 12 March at 6 p.m. Thus, although Slovenia is the immediate neighbour of the main European hotspot in Italy, it declared the epidemic only a day after the World Health Organisation declared the pandemic. Let me remind you, Italy has already declared an epidemic or emergency on 31 January 2020. The lack of protective equipment and the failure to take appropriate measures to combat the transfer of COVID-19 from Italy resulted in the first infections and thus the worst consequences in healthcare facilities and homes for older citizens. The infection was confirmed by several doctors who became infected in Italy, and after their arrival from Italy, soybeans performed the same work as they were eventually given the instructions and subsequently transferred the infection to other employees and also to caregivers. On 13 March evening, the 14th government of Marjan Janša, who met immediately after the oath at its first meeting, took immediate action to contain the virus. As has already been said, they ran into empty warehouses at the department of supplies, and there was no equipment for doctors, except for residents of the Republic of Slovenia. The first measures of the new government were: the issuance of a regulation setting maximum prices for protective, protective and other health equipment; the centralisation of procurement to the Department of Freight Reserves for the whole of Slovenia; the establishment of an inter-departmental working group for the reception, review and evaluation of offers of protective equipment to prevent the spread of communicable diseases in COVID-19; and the establishment of an online address for the offer of URSZR.si, where the supply of mask companies was redirected. From 24 March to including 14 April, representing a total of 13 working days, 1,081 received electronic messages were reviewed. By 10 April, the Department of Freight Reserves had provided sufficient protective equipment in the short term and the Interdepartmental Working Group on 14 April had suspended the examination of e-mails. Let me remind you that the predictions of the expected spread of the virus in Slovenia by epidemiologists were catastrophic. If I only expose the announcement of Slovenian infectologist Andrej Trampuz in Berlin, on 25 March he said that in 14 days in Slovenia, about 15 000 people will be infected with the coronavirus. The simulation for Slovenia presents it as follows: if today 480 are infected, in 10 days 5 thousand 90 and 14 days 14 thousand 500 will be in 10 days. If 10% of them need intensive care, that means about 500 in 10 days and a thousand 400 in 14 days. As a result of all other measures since the closure of kindergartens, schools, shops, restrictions on congregation movements, we have avoided the worst chance scenario. Nevertheless, the number of hospitalized persons with coronaryism in Slovenia changed, reaching a peak between March 29th and April 11th, when we recorded more than 110 hospitalized persons daily. Big efforts were made to prevent the spread of infections, to care for caregivers, especially in nursing homes, to test and, of course, to treat patients with COVID-19, medical personnel who, of course, are sincerely grateful for the work they have done and are still doing today. Unfortunately, due to the initial lack of protective equipment, many health and care workers have become ill in the homes of older citizens. We wouldn't have to do that if we had enough protective equipment on the outbreak itself. Unfortunately, in Slovenia we still record more than 100 deaths of people with COVID-19, most among the population of the elderly from their homes for the elderly Šmarje pri Jelšah, Metlik and Ljutomer. If the Prime Minister, in his resignation, Marjan Sarec, provided for the declaration of the epidemic in a timely manner, initiated procedures for the acquisition of personal protective equipment and adopted an appropriate order with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to lay down conditions for travel to countries where there is a possibility of infection with and for arrival from these countries, until the end of February and early March, the spread of this disease would not have occurred to us or would have occurred to a significantly smaller extent. As a result, human health would be significantly less affected and property damage would be lower. Of course, it is right to thank the Fourteenth Government, which in such a short time and in exceptional circumstances has done almost impossible. As a result of the measures taken at that time, Slovenia has proved to be a success story against the Covid-19 epidemic, which has also been pointed out by many foreign media and, last but not least, by the European Commission. Unfortunately, that's obviously not a good thing for a lot of people. Instead of the responsible conduct of people, people prefer to call and even participate in demonstrations themselves, despite the fact that the gathering of people due to the epidemic is not allowed, which of course is shown by the sign of the crime, which may result in a new wave of epidemics and, as such, endangers the health of all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will, of course, unanimously support the report and the amendment to the decision tabled by the parties to the coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. Comrade Marjan Sarec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u16	Thank you, President, for your word. It was nice listening to the Prime Minister. Anyone who didn't know him would, of course, stare and clap with their eyes open. However, the Prime Minister of the Government was back in his well-known manner when the master, so-called licentie poet, was saying, poetic freedom, and accused me of having unlawfully declared an epidemic. Actually, that doesn't mean I won't use the word that it's a lie. Under the law under which we worked, the article reads: “An epidemic of infectious diseases, and an infected or endangered area declares or designates a minister responsible for health.” According to the new, only, the government declares the epidemic a consequence of PKP-1, only under this law but not before. Then, of course, we heard again about my resignation. The reasons for my resignation are well known long ago, and I explained them at a press conference on 27 January. Indeed, we were in a situation where we had 42 votes, and the majority in Parliament required 46. - I guess that's clear to everyone today. When colleague Polnar earlier said that he was ready to talk about another government and, of course, party Desus had not already provided all the votes for the budget, nor for other matters, let us also remember the vote on Minister Mlinar, where colleague Polnar even spoke with the words that Austria could not be Minister and so on and so on. In short, this government didn't have the basic conditions for political action, and today it's trying to prove to be some kind of escape from the crown. Let the lightning strike me if Janša knew anything about the virus on January 27th. I don't think so. In fact, when the government began to form, or earlier, when he spoke at the Odessa, he spoke about how this coalition was clinically dead, how it depended only on the price of the victory of Jelinčič. He probably already knew, since they had probably made a deal before, as evidenced by the very speed of making up a new, fourteen, government. That's what I think. So, my resignation is by no means a blowout in corn and I don't know what else you're trying to show, how I escaped from the scene and then comes the great savior, John Janša, who will save Slovenia and at least half the world next to it and of course lies smoothly that the proclamation of our epidemic is illegal. Please. We worked by law. According to the law, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health declared the epidemic on the proposal of the National Institute for Public Health, as it did in the legislation. And not on any of your hands. The minister had every opportunity to declare an epidemic, but if I were a thousand times against it, I wasn't, because you all know more than anyone who wasn't there, right? So if you look at my Tweett from that time when I was in charge of the government, I didn't make fun of the epidemic anywhere, far away from what was possible in any other countries, and we've banned visits to nursing homes on March 6th. Then we introduced border control and received criticism from France, if I recall correctly. Then we also banned the events, canceled Andrea Bocelli's concert, and finally ordered the closing of schools and kindergartens, and then were attacked only on Monday, why not today on Thursday. In order for everyone to be able to prepare, so that we did not have the measures we have today, when this morning the minister says that something will not be open until Wednesday May, and then the government will take the evening to open something, say, libraries and other institutions. Each measure must also be prepared. And now if I come back. By the end of January, the coordination group, which worked at the inter-ministerial level, had met, but, of course, not always photographed itself and so on, but worked. And it also actively dealt with the virus's flow and, of course, also prepared for the outbreak to be declared. We've heard that this government has discovered contracts and so on. Yes, of course she revealed them, but after Erar had not worked for some time, and when there were severe pressures and severe reprisals, she revealed these contracts. Now, as far as our government, which was the first to face this crisis, is the government in which the two parties, who were both in our government and in this government. And they've probably been working together for a month. By the way, there was no minister at any government meeting. After talking about how the Prime Minister had committed himself to the situation and how he already knew everything, he knew nothing, because even in the coalition contract nothing was mentioned, and even when he was drawing a picture of the future at the mandate meeting, he only mentioned it twice. So those of you who are talking today, how, if you were a virus before you wouldn't come from China and so on, that's the larifari. And this report, as I said, is not worth the paper on which it is printed. For, in the old communist manner, which the President of the Government knows very well, because, after all, the only president of any party who was involved with the communists was, of course, to prepare such a report that everything is great, brilliant as far as he is concerned, but of course, he accuses us of being guilty of unscrupulous conduct and I don't know what else. This is as it was in Germany's entry when the local elections were held, and in May 1989 the Commission found that the single Socialist Party of Germany had won 98 votes and I do not know how many percent of the votes. They were not enough to try, but they may have frustrated the result by trusting him. And once in the 1990s, I remember, the Prime Minister said you were always the best if you compared yourself. Then he counted the Czechs and others, and there we can see that that's not the case. I still remember that today. Of course, it doesn't compare with itself, a little less, because our government didn't solve the virus for long. But this is such a black-and-white report that no one can trust him, except of course the members of the SDS party and the faithful viewers and listeners of Nove24, and those of this report are also intended, ladies and gentlemen, precisely to those, because the Slovenian public already knows that this is not the case. Also, as far as the functioning of our government is concerned, I never said that we were ideal, that we were brilliant, and that we did everything right, and as Mr. Janez Janša likes to say that after the battle all generals are so here too, because we were the first to face this virus and then John Janša did not take much time in his speech to go to the media, to protest and not know what else. When I listened to the stone, I would cry at the weight of the burden that it has on its shoulders when we all dictate to it, but these same media were fully consistent with this government for a month, they also published walkers who could not have been so many, so that this government could then close the boundaries of the congregations. In short, I haven't noticed any problems in any media for a month. However, the problems arose at a time when the general Slovenian public, through these media, found that there were commissions, margins and how this equipment was purchased so as to guarantee that the opposition was beset. The opposition has 38 votes in Parliament, or how many votes, you have absolutely every right to complain, over the opposition, but the opposition does not have a majority. When we led the government like the Government we didn't have the majority and it was different, you have the majority and you can do what you want and you did it. You've made such legislation that you've brought back what doesn't belong in there and so on. Janez Janša is now repeating things that he has already repeated several times and do not hold. I also think they've put it up, I'm not going to say I'm just going to make it clear that it didn't hold up to 400 projects standing on the Ars and so on, because of NGOs and I don't know who else and because of the protests of course. If we are talking today about the actions of our Government, then other governments do not think that there is really a guarantee through the media and through civil society, and I do not know who and, of course, I do not know who to accuse in the end that, because of this cycling, another wave will come again. For accusing me of death in Slovenia is nicely depressed. 80% of our deaths were in the homes of older citizens. We have already banned visits to senior citizens' homes on 6 March, and if we look at the time when these infections started, it is clear if anyone already bears responsibility, if we can talk about the government as that happened substantially later. However, it is your main problem that you have made your way to the government, because the crisis headquarters that you set up was clearly against the law and you have also abolished it quickly under the cover of the night, because you have seen that there is no legal basis, because I already mentioned Article 7, which says that the Ministry of Health has exclusive competence. Now I will quote Mr Gantar's Minister of Health on the awareness of the epidemic on March 13th from the committee, quote that you will not stick this statement to me there from the SDS, because you like to do so, as he said: "This is a new disease, COVID-19 is something new. I'm not going to say that it's not in some perspective, and in movies everywhere, it's always been possible for a scenario like this to appear sooner than before, but the fact is that this is actually something that has come as a surprise not only to Slovenia, but also to everyone else who is perhaps even more effective than we are in this work. Of course, I think that the measures are well-suited and, above all, attention will now have to be paid to really being implemented as agreed. Then the skiers and the irresponsible behavior of colleagues. Unresponsible behavior of colleagues, you say. Yeah. I see this problem here a little differently. I, by the way, was also skiing in Italy until February 19th, and there was virtually no talk of coronavirus other than Chinese. Not only Slovenia, but not only Slovenia, most countries, as I said, underestimated this problem of coronavirus, and the profession underestimated it. This is not, once again, it is not an obvious or political thinking, but I say, as the majority of countries have underestimated the problem, and so have we. You know, when you look when someone says, look even I've been thinking this way, at first when everyone says, look, it's the flu, so once again, you need to take the problem of the coronary virus seriously, it's a serious situation, but you don't need to panic. Only what has been done, what has been given, must be respected. That's what the Minister of Health said at the committee meeting on 13 March. So whoever tells me that you've known everything for a month, and that you've had everything ready, of course, doesn't convince me. And this report, of course, is unilateral, misleading and, as I said, aimed primarily at the public within the party and convincing how everything on your side is great, how everything is great and how Janez Janša again did an excellent job. And then, of course, Janez Janša cries again over the opposition, the ugly opposition, how we dictate to him how we prevent it at the time of the epidemic, etc., but the dispatches can be written at the time of the epidemic. But with the media, thanks to RTV Slovenia, which, by the way, has reported correctly all the time, as in 1991, the President of the Government and his main speaker, Jelko Kacin, whom they love so much and would like to return in any way at that time, but the return is not, the time has gone. And RTV Slovenia has reported correctly all the time, thanks to this government then goes to exchange program councillors to inside program councilors who don't even pay subscriptions, etc. He replaces the director of the police, the fractures at the National Investigation Office, the cracks at the Institute of Public Health, when we return to the times when the returnees set forward, when he says calmly the director of the Institute that people have been careless again for a long night, and look at the fracture, the new infections. Yeah, what did people do for the big night? We watched on TV the priest bless food from the car far away, unless the virus spread around. You know, they're not serious claims. And this government crashed through all the institutions at the time of the epidemic. How can you then tell us when we are doing our work of the opposition, Members and Members, that at the time of the epidemic I don't know what we are going to do, but the government has time to do everything at the time of the epidemic. Someone set a fine schedule for how much time John Janš spent on Twitter. These are numbers that are enormous. And apparently the government has plenty of time for everything. It's time to tweet, it's time to switch, it's time to argue with the media, here I have to mention the interior minister, of course he has experience, and he was the director of Nova24 knows how to serve it. In short, if you find time for everything, to mark the media with some bass and some labels that are not appropriate for today or for any mature democracy, and this is published by the President of the Government on a government website and then weeps how the media are ugly, how they work with him and how badly they work with this government. And then Angie Logar, the Foreign Minister of course, sends a so-called private letter. A private letter, which, of course, the Minister of Justice knows nothing about and so on. In short, if the government has time for all these things, it's obviously not that important. And now, Mrs Beautiful Šimenka, of course, again those masks that we put on China, again. We have repeated this a thousand times, and the President of the Government has also heard this on our National Security Council. These masks did not come from the warehouse of the Republic of Slovenia. And when you talk about empty warehouses, you have a fundamental problem that before the epidemic, the institutions themselves were in charge of the equipment supply. The supplies had only goods for the most urgent and commercial reserves were never intended to import-export the company as it is now happening, when one for the other does not know what it is doing and then, of course, when it “shuts” at home, then it is Mr. Zakrešek's fault, and Mr. Gale and, of course, this Government is nothing to blame, just as Janez Janša is never guilty of anything. But I've been following him practically since Roška, because I was just a weird kid, and I've been watching journals, politics and stuff, and he just doesn't convince me. I'm sorry. He doesn't convince me, like this report doesn't convince me, and if I'm in favour of me having to go to jail for negligence, then I won't expect to go any further. [[…]] That is why, of course, this has come from a report in our party, not only cannot we not support it, but we cannot vote on it, Mr President of the National Assembly. This cannot be voted on. Because the Government of Decisions cannot bring them to the National Assembly and then have the National Assembly vote on it. When I was Prime Minister, you taught me how to be a guest in the house, ladies and gentlemen of the SDS. And imagine that I would bring such conclusions to the National Assembly. What would you listen to? That would be one sigh, a howl with eyes. At least I saved you so much that I don't sit near you there, so much easier to breathe now, despite the masks. But that's outrageous! If our Government could afford it, I am interested in these comparisons that you are now giving and then the purchase prices of our Government fans are given by VAT, with everything, without and then, of course, you claim to be cheaper. If, for a year and a half, our Government made a comparison between you and us, in the area of culture, in the area of respect for each other, in the field of, I don't know, these areas are still unnumbered, and that report would be interesting. What I've been listening to on that side! And today John Janša comes, of course he sits down and is the greatest victim in the world. The biggest victim. But I'm glad he finally found out there'd be a recession problem. That's gonna be a problem. And when you brag about how you saved everything by health, yes, because if you've closed everything, if you've restricted everything, if no one's been able to go anywhere, it's also normal that the infection couldn't spread, and not least you've continued those measures that we've foreseen and we've taken. But how you're going to solve the recession, the financial problems have gone, billions have gone, and people haven't yet. And once we're back on 100 percent of GDP public debt, how we're gonna solve this, that's what I'm interested in. You can write 500 such reports, go to Nova24 in the evening, boast how ugly Charec is, how incompetent he is, how impossible it is, how I don't know what he is, Janez Janša, who came into Slovenian politics yesterday, 2018 he didn't know he was likely to be in politics. But everything's fine, everything's clean and so forth. Ladies and gentlemen, allow yourself to enjoy this report, which you have done for 14 days, so that it is about the way you wanted it to be. But we will not vote on this, because it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because it is a violation of the rule of law and a violation of the autonomy of the various branches of government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Social Democrats, Comrade Sonibo Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u18	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues. When we are called upon to speak to our superior in order to explain our conduct, this procedure usually follows the rules set by the superior. It's clear who's asking the question who needs to answer. It is also clear what would happen if a subordinate tried to deceive his superior, distort the facts, conceal his faults, or misuse the procedure in order to bring the fault to the person who did his work before him. Even if he had done everything right in his work, such an abuse of the disciplinary procedure for a subordinate could have ended with the failure of a working relationship. Article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that the National Assembly shall be in charge of the Government. And the government depends on his support. If the National Assembly invites the Government to report to it, there is a prescribed procedure for doing so. The government submits its report, the National Assembly discusses it and takes note of it. If Parliament considers it necessary to adopt additional decisions on this basis or how else to act, it is the free decision of Members and Members, who can then also initiate appropriate procedures. However, the procedure for examining each report is exactly the same if the National Assembly fully agrees with it or not. Government Faced [[?]] with the requirements of the public and policy to explain the media-disclosed suspicions, I stress suspicions and the incorrect purchase of protective equipment has forgotten its constitutional role. More than that, not only forget, she ignores her for a little while. From the moment the National Assembly made its request for the report, the Government has put itself in the role of superior - prosecutor and judge at the same time. The report was prepared over a period of two weeks. She has given us Members and Members less than two days to “read” him. The procedure was tabled in order to simply skip the debate on the content and immediately move to conclusions that the Government itself on the document with the head of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in particular, to dictate to Members and Members, and to blame its predecessors instead of reporting on its own work. All of this respectable is an abuse of procedure. If it were available to employees in relation to their boss, he would probably lose his job as a matter of fact. Those who should pay attention to this, first and foremost, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the competent working body and also the Members of the ruling coalition, have all in turn failed, have been completely ignorant in their warnings, despite the fact that the messages have been very clear. This is an unconstitutional and illegal procedure which is also not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This has also been duly and unequivocally pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service that the procedure is being conducted in the wrong way and that the adoption of government decisions would constitute an illegal and also an illegal act. On Friday, the chairman of the committee refused to allow her to speak, and on Monday the president of the National Assembly did the same. They even allowed a vote on this and the ruling coalition decided that the legal service would not be allowed to speak. This cannot be understood in any other way than that the ruling has deliberately overlooked the division of power provided for in the Constitution and the procedures laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The government and the coalition MPs thus completely overturned the constitutional order of which they also committed themselves to respect by their oath. When the government does such a thing, it is quite clear that we will talk much more about the process instead of the content. It is also clear that most people will find it difficult to understand the procedural complications and protests of the opposition. If we do not adhere to one of the basic rules on the way we work, the simple distinctions between the branches of government, then our work is deep in the rare zone of unconstitutionality and illegality and does not make any real sense. In this way, there is great fear that this country will soon be no longer a democracy where there is a people government, not a republic in which public affairs are a matter. In true democracy, people have the right to know and to demand explanations from every government, from every government. Therefore, the Members and Members who requested clarifications and responsibilities from the current government did not intervene on the current tool in such a case, i.e. obstruction and not cooperation in the debate itself. The questions that we have / incomprehensible / and the country are too important to be answered. That is why we have insisted and asked questions which the Government has not answered in its report. In all media disclosures and after a government report, after nearly 12 hours of debate on the Committee on the Economy, we still have no answer to practically any of the questions that have been asked on their own. Thus today, we do not even know how much protective equipment would be appropriate in the event of an epidemic, how the estimates of the necessary quantities of protective equipment for purchase are assessed. The government claims that it was necessary to buy everything and at all costs. Obviously, we don't even know how many breathing appliances we had in Slovenia before the epidemic. On the other hand, government buyers evidently knew exactly how much and what fans they needed to buy and who to buy. We don't even know who or why he decided to charge the Department of Commerce with the procurement. We do know, however, that the Interdepartmental Assistance Teams have forgotten to appoint representatives of the Public Procurement Directorate and the Public Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices and have been tasked with coordinating them. volunteers who worked for a voucher that everyone thought was full of decision-making powers. It's no wonder they communicated through government sources and stuff. We do not know who the Government is and why it has decided that the equipment must be bought through intermediaries instead of transparently and directly to the manufacturer, but we know that the ruling Members in Parliament have voted against it. Above all, we do not know why a system has not been put in place to prevent the corruption risks expected in such a situation. Respected and respected, the rulers never forget to say that by purchasing equipment they saved lives. They even named their report with such misleading force a manipulative title. Our view is that life was saved mainly by the discipline of people who have patiently taken into account physical isolation measures, the prohibition of visits to nursing homes and hospitals, the closure of schools and kindergartens, the cessation of public life and not emergency activities. All these measures were taken at a time when the new government took over from the previous one. For example, the decree declaring the epidemic was adopted one day before the appointment of the new government and was in force at the time of its oath. However, we know that the decision to centralise all purchases of protective equipment was taken by the current Government five days after its appointment, if I am more precise, on 18 March this year. Therefore, at least from this point on, she has also been fully responsible for the successful or failure of procurement. The minimum we have to ask her to explain her actions. No government has the right to respond to people's questions and concerns in the way it was chosen. Finally, let us comment on the attempts of the rulings to divert attention to other past affairs. Not suddenly the rulings demand clarification of all the affairs and traces of everything in these decades of missing money and they are right, it must be in everyone's interest. We must remember, however, that everything is the greatest, including the most expensive affairs of Slovenian history, in similar circumstances. From this day forward, it was urgent to continue an important project without questions and without delay. It would have been for all of us to learn that, even in exceptional circumstances, we cannot repeal the rules that apply to all. It would be time for us to learn after 30 years that the mentality of amateur moaning has no place in a regulated country. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will continue to insist that the circumstances of procurement of protective equipment are investigated and obtained by epilogue, without prejudice, one way or another. Only in this way can we ensure that the values of transparency and accountability of the authorities are finally established in Slovenian policy. Only if everyone who rules understands that he is in the service of the people do we have a chance to improve the situation in the future and not repeat the same mistakes. We have participated in the debate and demanded answers and clarifications that we have not received throughout the duration of our consideration of the report. However, the Coalition majority and the Government continue to insist on the adoption of illegal decisions. In the latter case, we cannot, but we do not want to cooperate, because it would constitute a suspension of democratic regulation. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's position will not be just a nuisance of the opposition, who just wants to impose. In fact, the government found itself in the midst of this situation: with a rapidly established telephone station, through which they were called, and there were many on-call patriots, ministers, secretaries, friends, family members of government representatives and others, and cheered for this or that company. Moreover, all these patriots who wanted to, as they say, help the country suddenly, became specialists overnight in medical equipment and lobbyists of even more well-intentioned companies and people who were suddenly the most qualified to import medical equipment, even though they had never dealt with it before. Unfortunately, this idea of a large government charity club has been disrupted by warnings and disclosures that everything was not so beautiful and right – that the government was purchasing equipment that the profession had identified as less suitable to make this equipment significantly cheaper, according to the household report, that this large charity campaign would probably cost us dozens, even hundreds of overpaid tax money. What the government believes it has done or how it acted in the purchase of protective equipment does not matter at this time. Let the facts speak, let the truth speak. We also report to the government that the government's report of facts and truth will not silence, but unfortunately today will again take too much time to politicize who is more or less guilty. Nevertheless, I believe that sooner or later there will be a moment when all government attempts to stall and search for ploys will no longer fall. And then there will be a time for truth — the truth, which apparently is becoming more afraid from day to day. Good luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The Republic of Slovenia faced a shortage of safeguards in the event of the outbreak of the COVID-19 virus. This is an objective fact that none of us can deny. However, the objective pursued by the new government at the time of its term of office was to provide adequate safeguards and other critical medical equipment for those in need as soon as possible to save their lives. Desperate calls for health and social services have been sufficient reason for the current government to have done everything in spite of the extraordinary circumstances of the past two months to meet the target. The situation was complex and difficult. The people who offered their help were huge. Despite uncertainties in global markets, where demand was significantly greater than the supply, their engagement was maximum. In the SMC, we believe that most of the aid offered was well-intentioned, even though in the meantime, a political horror was directed, indicating the collapse of the legitimacy of the government's work and its ministers. In order for the government to do the job completely flawlessly in those times, it was practically impossible, but the fact is that no one has ever been in such a situation before, and we are convinced that the government has done everything responsiblely that is possible in a given time, especially what it had to do. The fact that we have stopped the spread of the epidemic and that the epidemiological picture has improved cannot be eliminated by anyone. This is a real indicator of performance, as well as that we now have full warehouses of protective equipment. In the SMC, it is noted that the data listed in the government report cleared the image that has been specifically constructed in recent weeks, unilaterally and over some important, if not crucial, facts. But obviously for some, it's still not important enough. The challenge posed by the virus is too severe and too large to be used for mutual political accounting, but that is exactly what is being done. It is therefore important that some key issues are also clearly and unequivocally noted. The choice of suppliers has been raised several times. According to the Government's decision to conclude contracts under Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act, only with Slovenian suppliers, since dealing with foreign entities in emergency situations, which are and continue to rule on the global market for protective equipment, poses an excessive risk to public finances. Under the given circumstances, 100 % of the advance or advance was required for the purchase of protective equipment by foreign companies or directly for producers in most cases. In the first place, it was because of unreliable supplies, if possible, that the institution did not provide advance payments and therefore the supplier had to take care of the business and take over the risks. Instead, the institution preferred to make payments only after the takeover. This actually allowed him to request their removal from the supplier in case of shortcomings and errors. On the question of the price of protective equipment, however, it should be pointed out that during this period in the European market the average prices of certain types of protective equipment were up to twice as high as the prices for which our country has concluded procurement contracts. In recent critical weeks, the average prices of triple masks on the European market were between 0.5 and 1.2 euros. The average price of FFP2 masks ranged between 3 and 6 euros. Slovenia has concluded a contract to purchase three-layer surgical masks for the price of 0,60 euros per piece, and a FFP2 mask for the price of 3.40 euros per piece. These figures are eloquently proof of the rational use of budgetary resources. Otherwise, when purchasing the price of masks, a significant increase can be observed by all citizens today. In recent weeks, opposition representatives have used all political means to ensure that the government's good and efficient work is wrapped up in a comprehensive corruption charge and criminalisation of the demanding procurement process of protective equipment, while its main actors have forgotten that, at the time of taking over the new government's mandate, warehouses have been empty, the purchase of protective equipment on the world market has already been severely hampered and from day to day more expensive, and the health and the rest of the profession has been deeply concerned about the horrific Italian scenario. The seriousness was at the top and the reactions of the previous Prime Minister were too slow, which we regret in the SMC Group, but we have warned of the need for a faster and more decisive response when we were members of the previous coalition. This has been pointed out by our ministers, and this has been particularly pointed out by our Vice-President of the then government, who demanded a response. With the intervention lodged against Minister of Economy Zdravka Počvalska, there will be an opportunity to discuss in depth at her hearing in the National Assembly and then it will be time to present all the facts from which it will be clear that Minister Restorationšek has carried out his fundamental responsibilities or tasks entrusted to him in the procurement of protective equipment in a transparent, efficient and effective manner. Therefore, all of today's opposition speculations, which will surely follow, are completely unnecessary and unnecessary. The report on the acquisitions of protective equipment that we are dealing with today clearly shows how the procedures were conducted, who decided on them, and in particular, what were the situation at critical times, when the epidemic broke out and how not moderately difficult it was to provide adequate and necessary protective equipment. In this report, we have a number of evidences for which so far there has not been enough listening. These facts, among other things, show that warehouses were empty when the epidemic was declared, that rapid access to protective equipment was virtually impossible and that many lives in our country were subsequently endangered. In spite of exceptional circumstances, the current Government has provided protective equipment in a timely manner, at a shorter time and at lower prices than many others, comparable countries, thus preventing the drastic consequences of the epidemic. The fact that Slovenia manages the epidemic in such an effective way is our common victory, ours and our citizens and citizens, who have shown an enormous degree of awareness, reasonableness and responsibility. But a common victory is the only thing that really counts. It is certainly not fair to create a criminal continuation from the important part of preventing the coronary epidemic in our country. Slovenia was able to protect the health and lives of its citizens and citizens in the first wave of the epidemic. This is the most important fact for us, and this fact has in fact led to our report in the SMC Group, which clearly gives rise to some important findings on the state, reasons, stocks and orders of personal protective equipment and critical medical equipment. Whoever wants to continue to enjoy the media and political structure should do so. Whoever wants to hear the facts, numbers, and evidence is sure to find them in this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word has Franz Rosec, to prepare Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Nice greetings to all present! Today we have on the table I'd say a report on the purchase of protective equipment and I'd call you critical medical equipment. Now, if we didn't have anything to talk about on this report today, but we would still be following it, I would tell these TV shows that might be giving some good news that they can talk about for 14 days or even three weeks, but not some things that were some positive stories, because of the positive loss as you say that I can't say that it's a good thing, then I would say it indefinitely. It was obvious that the report was unilaterally that if a quarter of the report were to be said to the previous Government, three quarters of the current government, that a report could have been complete, but apparently there was nothing in it from the previous Government to write, at least that's how I imagine it. As I have heard today from certain debates, the previous Government has acted very poorly in its resignation or has communicated with the right kind of communication no longer. Now such a report can be viewed from one side or another depending on how someone wants to present it. I think this is a very good basis for us to start talking, to see where we might have done something in the past wrong, what are the weaknesses and, that certain things can also be corrected, I will just say that they will work better. Now, we know that warehouses were empty, I don't think that stores or warehouses are meant to be collected there would say a spiderweb, but that there is some equipment in there that serves in some critical situations or for other purposes, for example, if there are some prices that need to be coordinated or something lower, that some of these reserves are released to the market. It was repeatedly said why the state did not buy directly. Today we have also received in the media written by the European Union just studying those 300,000 masks the message that the masks are inadequate is also said to be on a higher level, a larger apparatus when they directly bought something happened to them. Now, if we bought me directly, something would be wrong or we would have paid 100% advance in advance, and the masks wouldn't have been a blow again. The fact is that the current government has been successful, that we have plagued the epidemic, that measures are being released, that the economy can take action and that we will be ready when foreign markets actually begin to open. We know that our economy is 70% dependent on exports and needs to be ready as such when markets are relaxing, we have a recession ahead of us, but we also need to be prepared for recession in such a quality way that all these measures are regulated and that we can also start the economy as quickly as possible. Here I would also like from this report, which is on the table, which is largely thought that this is a very good journey forward, to examine what has been done wrong in the past and what can be improved in the future. This is what I think is another basis and to talk here and to say from this report, then draws some conclusions as to how we do certain things in the past in similar cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Pavlovich. Let's get the mags ready. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u24	Why are we sitting here today? Because of this and what fellow Rosec said on this basis, a conclusion can be drawn. I'm going to make three picks because it doesn't make sense to discuss this political pamphlet at all. Today we, as Members and Members, are primarily telling people, not politicians, you are already determined in the future how you will vote and how you will essentially decide to do so from May 5th, when we have received this report. Probably some of you got it before. But in this place, from the heart and without the written text, without reading this report, this is a government report to be read by Members, I thank people in particular. It wasn't politics that beat this virus. Politics has used this virus for its business. And we will prove that in the future. People have renounced their responsibilities and sacrifices to fundamental constitutional rights, not because the government would prescribe them, but because they felt obliged and called upon to stop this disease. And there's enough of this scheming, fencing, dealing with some details. You know what they say in a foreign report? This suggests some details and this is "monkey business". Someone's already going to throw themselves in there and look for errors in the details. I am extremely grateful to my colleague, Commissioner Jože Lenart, who, as a long-standing auditor in a few seconds, found such mistakes in heaven that ordinary espas would not afford, with all due respect for espas, who is preparing his own business reports. Here the whole government and the entire state apparatus have completely succumbed to the pressure of politics and government. And in this farce we've been listening to these mantras, not just today, we've been listening to them for a month, empty warehouses, throwing rifles into corn, saving lives, chaos, hectic. No, this government has resigned because of principle. But the new government was created by opportunism. And that's something to be honest with you for once. In the last few days, not even a month, we've asked a lot of questions. If anything in what we've been exposing as some theory and possibility, it wasn't true, you might deny it, but you didn't. Anyone who does not agree is an old Slovenian proverb. And now the President of the Government is saying that we are in a phase of bargaining, and he is freely offering us a phase of cooperation. I'm sorry, until this matter is crediblely cleared, I don't stand a chance of cooperating in this story. From outer space, it looks like there's something wrong with the moon. And I'm going to focus, just like I did in the last few debates, just the fans. Gantar, the minister's candidate said on March 13th at the time at the hiring, 168 fans have Slovenia and this number has also appeared in the report. Now we found on the UKC website that they wrote with their inventory that they have 133 fans. 168 minus 133 is 35, the whole other Slovenia had only 35 fans. I can't believe it. And I don't believe her. Why was that number inflated? We all know why. Why was the protective masks important? We all know why. However, protection and hygiene masks need to be separated, and that is what we must say. And what was the first measure, or what was the first act of that government? They destroyed 50 masks of FFP3 due to pear effects and joint photography. These are the most expensive and still very difficult to deliver today. And designed to protect the health personnel most exposed. That was the government's first act. I'm going to let go of all this stuff that's been happening with the Chinese donation. We all know that China was grateful to us for helping them in the most difficult times. This March 16th, it then came out by accident. Accidentally, some pieces were leaking into the public to help us compose a story and establish a theory based on the Indicators. You didn't even try to throw it away. On 16 March, Mofcom Jelki Godec - I don't know how it came to her because this is a matter from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and she is the secretary in the cabinet of the President of the Government, but okay, it is, it is possible, but the Government can communicate well among its departments - get a dispatch of Mofcom, how it is necessary to determine from the Slovenian side a company that will perform a 12 tonnes donation of protection and medical equipment and 220 fans from China. We don't know what was going on before, because the government could have done it on its own after all. But it's not because the Chinese said it, that's what we have to determine. That's what you're saying, but it's gonna have to be proven. I've already raised the question twice. Whether the company has been designated to carry out this business of Geneplanet and I have not received an answer. And exactly 2020 fans were ordered. And now to skip a little bit, not to take up too much time with my colleagues, these 2020 fans got lost in this report somewhere. Since March 17th, when all sorts of whims and ways have been sought for the professional basis that these fans are really good for purchasing, a contract with Geneplanet was concluded on March 18th, or was that famous advance and that famous video. On 18 March, the Government's decision to centralise procurement and all of this continues until 24 March, then the Director of Geneplanet first proposed the cancellation of the contract in response to the negative opinion of health professionals. Three days before the first blower was delivered. And it wasn't three days ago, because the same day the U.S. reported that 20 fans came from China as a donation when the Chinese ambassador came to visit the President of the Republic. But according to the report, in a week, by any chance, the first fans of Geneplanet arrived, and that's the same for you. It says in, 22, 6. 4. but it says what it says next, fans plus compressor. Give me some of that supply six. 4. Please explain by the next time how many fans there were and how many compressors there were, because I feel that the whole picture is increasingly showing that a particular company has been selected for a specific business with a specified margin. According to our information, China offered us in a donation, a donation means that we skipped the purchase line, 220 fans at a factory price between $9 and $11,000 or $14,000 commercial price, and we bought them for $36,000,400 without VAT. Please at least deny this matter and finally tell which company has been chosen to carry out this business with China. And this is just one story in all of this, 81 or 82 pages of the long report. There was no attempt to deny it, because there was no minister so far, and today, when there was, it was in the background. There's probably no answer. So, I really don't know. Unfortunately, all the events of the past month can be summed up in the words of Gai August Octavian, the great Roman statesman and the military commander of “acta est fabula” what happened is a fairy tale. And if they say that before the truth wears its pants, the lie has three times surrounded the whole world. Let me tell you that the truth is in shape today and is extremely ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot, get Violet Tomic ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! So at the outset, I would like to touch on the question of the very legality of the decision, which is actually the subject of today's debate. In the last week, the opposition parties were clearly and loudly reminded of the dispute over the adoption of this report in the National Assembly. The fact is that all the reports of the Government on individual matters under its jurisdiction have been carried out in accordance with Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure, which allows the Government to prepare a report with which the National Assembly is either in writing or orally informed in a separate case. This can be discussed, but reports are not voted on and decisions are not taken. So today's point is establishing a completely new and controversial parliamentary practice. It is also new that this practice is completely contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and potentially to the Constitution and the law. The manoeuvre that has taken place in the case of this report cannot possibly be a mistake, but it is intended because the essential issue is emerging, and this is why such insistence on the coalition to accept this report by legislative procedure or by procedure for the adoption of another act, although they know very well that this is wrong. So what is the ultimate goal? Since it was solely for the purpose of informing the National Assembly of the findings of the Government, they would undoubtedly follow the calls of the opposition, withdraw the act from the procedure and resubmit the report into the procedure, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But it wasn't like that. They insisted on the adoption of the decision, despite the fact that the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service was clearly expressed that it was a decision which did not have a legal basis, which was in short, illegal and unconstitutional. And if we were still able to think before the Committee on the Economy that there was some mistake in filing a report into the parliamentary procedure, we could certainly have understood in the debate on the Committee that it was not a mistake, that it was a manoeuvre with which the executive authorities wanted to fully overturn the fundamental role of Parliament and reach constitutionally contentious decisions. Although individuals from the coalition stated that the decision would be amended and in line with the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in the end we witnessed once again the disrespect of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, since the constitutional and illegal point of the decision was only formally transferred to the first point, in the style of wolf sit, goat whole. Of course, this has not changed anything, for the content that does not have legal basis in the Constitution and the law has remained and this is crucial. This decision, which is likely to be adopted today, because we are all aware that the coalition will vote for it peacefully, without a bad conscience, absolutely interferes with the principle of power-sharing, in the system of brakes and balances as a key postulate of the democratic system. The essence of the system is that all three branches of government are equal and exercise mutual control over each other, in short, in a relationship of orderliness. No branch of power is hierarchically superior to others, but above all it has to be independent for the actual operation of the braking system and balance, all three branches. The proposal for a decision, which is still in writing today with the head of the Government and not the National Assembly, puts the Government in a superior position. It places the Government over the National Assembly and the National Assembly on one of its key roles in the democratic process, depriving it of its supervisory function, as well as its independence and autonomy. This decision a priori establishes the political responsibility of the President 13. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and a certain official in the Department of Trade Reserves, who was hoping to speak at some point about the practices at issue, without the authority of the Government. The Government is an executive authority and as such implements the policies adopted in the National Assembly, not the other way around. And according to our constitutional system, the government is responsible to the National Assembly and not the other way around. It is worth noting that the National Assembly has failed to carry out one single act in order to determine at all what results from this contested decision. This could only be done and only if, in accordance with the Constitution, an investigative commission could be established, through which all investigative actions could be carried out, examine the entire dossier in detail, as well as carry out hearings, in order to either eventually adopt or reject the conclusions reached by the Government on a flat-rate basis in its report. Thus, this decision actually refers to the findings of the National Assembly, which, I stress, was still unable to identify absolutely nothing because it failed to carry out one act so that it could find out anything and because it did not receive any single answer from the Government to the huge questions raised. So much for the transparent functioning of this government. The report was prepared by the Government, which could only and only inform the National Assembly in accordance with parliamentary practice and should not be voted on today in the form of an information decision. Of course, there is something else in the background, but I really don't understand why the coalition's firm belief that this decision will end and the political responsibility of the former Prime Minister will be established. Because that's just not how it is. All these manoeuvres and manipulations of the coalition only confirm the fact that the request of the opposition to establish an investigative commission is absolutely justified. And if you really want to draw conclusions and explore the background and the actual situation, then you will allow the establishment of an investigative commission with the content points proposed by the opposition and with the president who will come by the opposition parties. Because if anything of this report is clear at this point, there are still many additional questions that have been raised, that the actual situation has not been fully investigated, that the report is at least biased. In any report that would implement findings such as this report, it would be at least expected that the other party would be given an opportunity to clarify the facts found, but that was not the case. Of course, I think it is absolutely right to investigate the role and responsibility of the previous government or perhaps the previous two governments, but there is no way that it can withstand the claim that the new government has saved everything and that you are firmly stressing the lifesaver. This is essentially justified by the complete lack of transparency of the procedure and the dispute over the conduct of the transactions. Ladies and gentlemen, even in exceptional circumstances, our Constitution and our laws are still in force. And indeed, politely I ask you to stop repeating this mantra of saving your life as the very answer to every single question, because it is unworthy, it is underestimating to those who have actually been in the front lines and to whom we must really thank for their self-sacrifice and perhaps apologize as a suggestion to you for the discredits that some of you have experienced because of you. Because they were hoping to publicly challenge the government's decisions regarding the purchase of fans and who insisted on their professional arguments. Because, you know, life saves a profession, politics doesn't save it. During the epidemic, doctors and health professionals saved our lives, and to a large extent our people, who were very consistently very disciplined by restrictive measures, even when they knew that these measures were absolutely excessive and potentially constitutionally debatable, were still following them. At the time of the epidemic, however, the government should only or should simply carry out its tasks in accordance with the law and the Constitution, and that is what we expected of it. What I can say about this report, therefore, is that in my view it is at least incomplete, at least biased, not a representation of the actual situation, but just a flat-rate view of the current coalition on the work of the previous government coalition. So this fact alone lets us know that we are not talking about an objective display of facts. In order to achieve this, we should allow the work of the Commission of Inquiry, other competent institutions, to come up with a response from the Commission for the supervision of public finances if it insists enough. And if I touch on some of the government's findings, the report again states that the warehouses were empty. And we still don't know where these warehouses really should be, who is directly in charge of the law, is the Department of Protection and Rescue, whether it's the Department of Freight Reserves, or whether they're the institutions themselves, how long this equipment should be in there, so we don't know the basic information, so we don't really know what we can conclude at all, unless we can agree that it's just because the previous Government was unconscious and the end of the story. At the same time, it is not always pointed out that in key cities, i.e. in defence, the economy in the previous Government was the exact same party to the current coalition. And so at least, if he holds everything you state in the report, then at least they are responsible for the situation. If this is not to be observed in the report, because only one person or two are fully identified there, there is no other. However, at one point these parties should adopt a certain degree of self-criticism, reflect on their own roles in the previous two governments and ask about their own objective responsibility for the situation that you then identify in the report. And here, of course, it is crucial to point out that our system is robust enough that there is only one minister alone who can't do anything, either solve it or spoil it. Responsibility goes to the Government, which is the responsibility of the Government as a collective body, but has not shown due diligence, which has allowed for controversial, non-transparent and worrying practices that I have been constantly reading in the media in recent months. Although I do not want to draw some conclusions from the media alone, I want to see if there are some documented material to show real facts. And here we are again on the key question to which we persistently ask it, we do not always get an answer, namely, how it can be for the largest public procurement in Slovenia, the Government of Powers or the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for goods reserves, which had no knowledge that had no comparable experience, which did not have real professional support, let alone human resources. All other comparable countries were implemented in the first instance from the point of view of the profession. Therefore, for all, either the Ministry of Health or at least the key executing institution which has the word health on behalf played a leading role. Only Slovenia has chosen its way here and found some new way of doing this. Thus, despite the fact that protective equipment was procured and it is essential that the profession actually conducts the procedure, it has all been transferred to an institution that does not have legally defined tasks in this area, which does not have the knowledge to carry out such an order. After all, it would be logical to assign this task to either the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Defence or at least the Directorate of Public Procurement. Therefore, it is also assumed that the institution was not randomly selected, that everything was essentially carried out on purpose in order to avoid liability. There's an official at a department signing more than ten million contracts, and no one's exercising due diligence over it. Or, in fact, it is a very, very well-thought-out structure – a systematic avoidance of responsibility with which those who actually made the decision had the last word in the acquisition of equipment, legally and formally avoided any responsibilities. In my view, it simply cannot contain the syntagm that the institution has conducted all the procedures on its own, but the competent ministry or interdepartmental group has been there only for some support, some kind of technical support. This is underestimating, both to Members and Members, as to citizens and citizens of this Republic. And so once again, this report is not an overview of the actual situation. I can tell my colleagues that this is a political pamphlet that identifies the responsibility of one government while at the same time assessing the excellence of the next government. And for the last time, the National Assembly could only get to know and not vote on this report. It shall not take illegal decisions. And today, by adopting this decision, you will undermine the autonomy of the National Assembly, which is a fundamental national postulate, because in the coalition you will allow the executive branch to fully withdraw its key supervisory role and in fact achieve a monopoly of power, which is typical of some other systems, definitely not for parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Violeta Tomić has the word to prepare Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u28	Yes, thank you for your word. You know what the nation says: "Every country has its own mafia, only in Slovenia does the mafia have its own country." We are witnessing one of the biggest corruption affairs in the history of Slovenia, and according to Patria, the arms affair, but look, in all three, the main role was played by the untouchable first-class Ivan Janez Janša. Had he not been first - class untouchable, he would have long been responsible for many things, for the books were written about these unusual works. That is why this report is a pure farce before us, and of course I will not vote on it. We will talk about how John John is not guilty, how this Government is not guilty and how the previous Government is guilty, but look at him, this Minister of Economy, Mr. Restoring, who is sitting there also in the previous government minister, and if he did not then make sure that the warehouse was full, he should have given up as incompetent long ago. What hurts me the most, and what we should clear up here is that at the time of the crown of the crisis, as many as one fifth of Slovenians landed at the social bottom. And you have a face here to defend a report in which the government is not to blame, while she's throwing millions of commissions at her friends. All other countries were able to do so directly with suppliers or manufacturers, and through their diplomatic channels, only we had to give over 40 million connected specimens to various parties. Of course, you will say that in the war we have heard before against an invisible enemy, all of this promotes a fear that has nothing to do with it. [[Incomprehensible]] It is obvious that the commission was primarily as important as the arms trade at Patria. The SDS is willing to do everything for the authorities. But you who support this power think you are in the same untouchable aura, untouchable and first-class. From his 2012 opportunity, John Janša concluded that he had not been radical enough in previous trials and that he had not defeated all the opposition in Parliament and outside of it, so that his crown came for a coup. He struck at the media, at the profession, at the courts, at the opposition, at civil society, at environmentalists, to the medical profession, the military, the police, the NPU and so on. Then this same man allows himself as one “calimmer” here to explain to us, if we are in a legal state, to quote us the Penal Code. Yes, it would be good for him to be subject to the Penal Code because threats to professionals, threats to anyone who think otherwise, threats to doctors like Dr. Richard Knafelj, Dr. Night of Death are unacceptable. They also threaten all doctors who disagree with their ugly jobs. In short, and then we received a “wisser” from Ivan Galet's Department of Trade Reserves, which also threatened him with death, look at him, and revealed who put all the pressure on these acquisitions and, if a voluntary lobbyist of Minister Počvalška, then a secretary and former member of SMC, Andreja Potočnik, who slopped at the employees and Alenka Jeraj, the current SDS member and Jelka Godec, the former SDS member and current SDS secretary and Urška Báčovnik Janša, the partner and wife of the Prime Minister of the Government who arranged the order for XAN-MAX in the 100th time of the company's annual turnover, a dedicated satellite of the far right of Marjana Podobnik, who threatened the same party with Janša and Počvalšško and when lobbying for the Dobnik Tradje, the Minister of the Republic. In short, it's read like a criminal. We have e-mails where the SAZU without commission allowed the purchase of equipment, but not that was undesirable. In short, this government is authoritarian, incompetent, greedy, totalitarian and very dangerous. Unfortunately, we are faced with unconstitutional operation, illegal operation, then the privatisation of the budget, where public funds flow into private pockets. In short, the opposition's operation is disabled and then we hear that we're pitching and that you're offering us cooperation. For God's sake, we wanted to be part of COVID 1 and COVID 2 and we saw you surround us and ignore us. Unfortunately, I have very little time and will leave it to my colleagues and colleagues from the Left, but there is no way I can take this report seriously. This report is not only a farce, but it is a disgrace for Slovenia and it is unworthy that the President of the Government also wants to replace the people, because the people, when they resist lies, manipulations and crime, have every right to resist such and to demonstrate in any way and anywhere. The question of whether we have a legal state is in place. And I think we should talk about it, but only if those who held the bag and pushed it didn't judge themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word to prepare himself for Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary-General. This time and in the last few days, I am particularly stressing and truly sincere when I say dear colleagues. Understand, please, here is also my call that we are still in the temple of democracy, that we have respect for the person's personality, the dignity of man, and that according to Aristotle's general courts, general judgments are not real, but are lies. They're lies. Some of you gave a report, said 83 pages. 99.99% of the opposition members, according to the debate so far, did not read or look at the report. This is the whole report, sorry, one very large table I haven't been able to print yet, so one folder. I have understood that this debate will not be a debate on the report, that this debate will only be intensified by the political interpretation of the urgent purchase of protective equipment that saved lives, human life, so that this debate will go in this direction that this government must go. We're happy to leave. I already told you in the press today. You have very simple mechanisms written in the constitution, in the law, but it is called, one of them, a constructive non-trust. My colleague Violeta Tomić, you're here at the temple of democracy. You're not on stage. You can say anything on the stage. You can say "I'll kill you," say, and it's just a theater. You said "Minister Tonin has provided business to his mother's company." Do you realize what you said? Fat lie, dear colleague. You lie in this temple of democracy. It's not Tonin's mom's company, Mom's working in this company, she doesn't have a leading role, and she doesn't have a single share. And Tonin didn't get the job done to this company, what yours and our John Gale said, did he? Have you seen Targeto? Let's roll back a little bit, and let's do some digging in your truth, because I'm sure you will find it. So much of this barking, all of which points to what I said in the introduction – it's a political interpretation, it's that some of you, especially from the far left political spectrum, are going to be out-of-court political killings. Yeah, you heard right. Well, that's not my rhetoric, but this time it has to be. And that's not how it's gonna go. We have, thank God, in this country that is not yet 30 years old, but we have legislation that protects a good name that also protects families, yes, our families. And I will no longer allow anyone, politics or anyone else, on the average of our beautiful label "you are criminals, you are part of organised crime, you have bruised hundreds of millions" and as I have heard now, "government has divided" so many and so many millions, "it has divided". For us, this is an urgent purchase, and if I look at the time frame, by April 30th. Now is the time for this debate to move to Parliament, more precisely to the Public Finance Supervisory Commission - there is the basis for the Court of Auditors or the Court of Auditors' report - and for the debate of parliamentary investigative commissions. How many there will be, one or two or five, I don't care if it's in accordance with the law. For us, this acquisition is the past, for New Slovenia. That is why the Government itself, the Government itself, has called on the Court of Auditors to investigate all this procurement and the Court of Auditors, according to my information, in government or ministries. Likewise, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Our view of New Slovenia is that if any politician or official, the Court of Auditors or the KPK or the police or, one way or another, has discovered that he has paid 1 euro of taxpayer's money, he must be sanctioned and, if he is a politician, he must leave the political space forever. Pika. That is why we have waited for three weeks alone, as the LMSH has predicted, to present this text, for the establishment of a parliamentary commission of inquiry, in three weeks you have failed to write it, ladies and gentlemen, and we have written it, and once again, as I have publicly called you here, we invite you to participate, why, because you will have the majority, [[advertising from the hall]] You'll have most of it, won't you? My friend Runk, a little image, please, because you're a professor. Why would you have a majority? Because there are nine parliamentary parties here, only four are in the coalition, five are in the opposition. And let's make every effort, however, to review every document, because, normally, here you are saying that you have not received an answer to any question and that this report - what is it? - some political pamphlet. Okay, the numbers on the table, but you're saying the numbers that we, the coalition, have wiped out hundreds of millions when I ask a 4-year-old granddaughter if it's possible for purchases that are in a row of sizes, I'm talking about paid acquisitions, 50 million I'm talking about, a row of sizes, that if it's 50 million, you can't fathom 100 million. Let's get some of this primary school, the math, the surgery again, all of it. And I'm afraid, isn't it, I'm afraid that now, due to the poisoning of the masses, the public, that it's the end of democracy, I lived at a time when there was no democracy, when there was only one party and only its truth. Has anyone lifted the opposition? Thank God I don't. I'm the first to go against, God forbid. This country is our sanctuary, but it is poisoning the public, because, because that silent majority is silent, indeed, and gives us incentives, hundreds of letters we get, I can show, indeed, hundreds, I am writing support, and I fear how far this will go, this spiritual division in this Slovenian society and here, in this place comes to mind Freud's psychoanalysis, somewhere I have read, about this; in others we are usually most disturbed by what are our, mostly unconscious, so subconscious problems, wounds or flaws. Now, colleague Pavšič opposed the formation of this government because, yes, it did not arise on the basis of good foundations and so on. Yeah, but did Nova Slovenija bring down Charc? It's not. And with you, many, maybe all of the '90s, I agree that Sharchev's sudden retreat was a mistake, that it was bad for Slovenia, because it had perfect teams and could without concern and probably very good and very clean, obtain the best protective equipment to protect human lives. I guess that's how it would be. I can't judge. I'm not a prophet. But, like that, don't you see, the way that March 12th, the day after the World Health Organization declared the pandemic, Sarec declared the epidemic and left. This is what we said in the occupying JLA, which we unfortunately served, was the doctrine, the military doctrine of "hit and run" and hit and run, but let's leave it now. As for this company, once again, mentioned by a colleague Tomić, Acron, Matthew Tonin immediately demanded a break-up of the contract. But he's not a signatory to a contract to tear her apart. There are a lot of these issues, and I am sorry that I cannot talk about the data, because today the debate is completely different, and perhaps if I may, our contribution. Look, the government is at the 6th serious session, 24. 3, this is 11 days after she swore, adopted a decision establishing an inter-ministerial working group to receive, review and evaluate the supply of protective equipment to prevent the spread of communicable diseases SARS-COV-2 or COVID-19. The interdepartmental working group will lead, and I am now reading a press release from the Government, but now it is the past, led by the Secretary of State at the MORS, mag. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia will also be members. This Commission has done an excellent job, reported to the government, the government has adopted the report and all the reasons for this commission to be disbanded have been fulfilled. In addition, the Government proposes to the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia an audit on the regularity and prudence of operations for the first four months of this year, 2020, then the Government to list, you can read the report or, if you have read it, the Government has actually called on the key institutions and the Supreme Auditor, who supervises the use of public money is the Court of Auditors. And as far as I know, I've already said, it's working, it's working, and I hope that we'll be waiting as soon as possible, but I'm not forcing myself, because I can't, I have no intention of giving the National Assembly a message as soon as possible. And you allow some association, maybe I'll get you into a bad mood, but here today we are more or less all of the bad will that reminds me of a time 30 years ago and of a statement that Demos said at the time by the Minister of Demos, unfortunately already dead, about the legislation, Mr. Loise Janko, when he was assessing how the political forces at the time were opposed to independence. At the time, the nation was united, but politics was not. The people were united, but politics was not, as far as independence was concerned. To some political forces, independence or independence Slovenia has never been an intimate option. We can read that. And this gentleman said, and this is my conclusion, that I normally support this decision, which is being corrected and actually now written in the spirit of the amendment, of course, in the spirit of the recommendation or the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. For my sake, neither should I vote because of the familiarity of the decision. Now, back to this final statement, which I have been predicting for so long, and is also valid for today. It's a time when the incapacitated are incapable of incapacitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The replica has Violet Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u32	My friend Joseph Horvath, since you've been pushing me around in your performance like a snorkel to lie on stage, but not in the temple of democracy, you know, we've never lied as much on stage as I hear here. Let me warn you, this is how you express your attitude towards culture and art, which is shameful. Marjana Charc and I finished the theatre, radio, and film academy. For the first time, you must have a lot of talent, and then perseverance, and work, and that's college, with a diploma that also includes sociology, political science and so on. So your relationship is broken and I think you won't apologize because it's not in yours, but lies, you know, are a great sin. Now that you've challenged me, I would ask you to answer me when we're talking so much about lies, why are you in correspondence with the S.A.U.U., where there were no commissions, always in a secret copy of you. You and your private e-mail, and you can zoom in on this camera so you don't accidentally tell me I'm lying. Please, jozef.horvat@gmail.com is your private mail. What is the leader of the New Slovenia Group doing in this business? Answer that, because I think the public is interested. But we can see that correspondence is with the Chinese who offered masks and all the equipment without commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u33	Yes, Mr. Horvath, procedurally. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Please, yes, this is my procedural proposal, first of all, which I am articulating to explain to my colleague Violeti Tomić that there is no lying in the temple of democracy and that there is no abuse of Slovenian academics. You don't even know how to read, dear colleague. I've never rejected any e-mails from China. Ask that academic, my friend, I'm very fond of being around academics, you know, who put me in a copy too. You know, academics certainly know, they're at home in their field and they're great, we have a great sea, but they probably didn't know at the first moment that the MP couldn't and shouldn't be getting masks. Do you understand? I can give you a personal phone number to get to the bottom of this, because you've already mentioned this the second time I've been in e-mails. I recommend you investigate this matter and inform me of the police I've put pressure on, and you can lock me up today, so theatrically, it'll be fine. That'll be all yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I'd like to know what your procedural proposal is.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u36	I told you not to lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u37	Yeah. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by a representative of the proposer, Mag. Andrej [[?]] Tonin. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u38	Since when do we sit in Parliament? [[advertising from the hall]] I didn't know he was sitting in Parliament now. I was going to show you respect when I stepped down, but well, if there are such measures, I'm a guest in your house, and I'm going to adapt. Here, this debate, which has now been going on in some way, is typically reflected in the circumstances in which we are working. The MP Tomić said a manifestly unforgivable clean lie. When Ambassador Horvath warned of these things, do you think she apologized? Far from it. [[advertising from the hall]] There was a new attack, a new attack, where she tried to accuse him of mediating a business. Now, listen to this logic. She shows an e-mail where the professor says that some equipment can be procured and Joseph Horvat is supposed to be in a hidden copy of this e-mail. Do you know what the truth is? But the truth is, this deal wasn't concluded. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u39	Mag. Tone [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u40	And what is Joseph Horvath accused of now?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u41	I'm sorry, mag. Tone [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u42	Joseph Horvath is accused of being in hiding somewhere. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u43	Please don't disturb the government's representative when he speaks. [[…]] Please. Here you go, mag. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u44	Vice-President, may I have a seat in Parliament? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u45	Go ahead, finish it, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u46	Tell me where you tell me where I'm wrong and what I'm doing wrong. [[…]] All I'm saying is the truth. That Member Tomić is showing an email for a business that has not been concluded and that a copy of this email should be sent by Jožef Horvat, and this shows by trying to criminalise him that something is wrong with this. And now I'm saying here that it shows exactly what nonsense we're in. Today, anyone who has done any good in this story is being criminalized. Many Slovenians, such and different, left, right, middle, whatever you can imagine, from the president of SD Jew, to SDS President Janez Janša and many thousands of others, most likely wanted to help in this crisis. And I'm sure the vast majority had good intentions in these stories. Today we came up with this sort of hysteria to accuse someone who was in a copy of an e-mail. Yeah, for God's sake, where did we come from? That this is by Ambassador Tomić, who shows such two sheets of almost given judgment, when you have sinned, you have done something wrong because some professor put you in a secret copy, so far we have come. And that was the defense of a very simple human thing that Ambassador Tomic said was a pure lie, what she said about my mother was a pure lie. That's what he said on TV at Target National Hero Ivan Gale. Did anyone else talk about these things? But Ambassador Tomić has nothing to do with it, because this is not a story, because all those we've been working on at these times, they need to be flogged, they need to be attacked with lies, because a thousand times repeated lies are clearly accepted as the truth. And from a culture such as Mrs Tomić and which I respect, I would expect a very simple human apology. Matthew Tonin, I was wrong about these things and I apologize. Just one simple sentence to show a little human relations, to show some normality in this room, that it's not just resentment. And even if we make a mistake, we admit this mistake and apologize for it. If I've done you any wrong and you make a mistake, I'll apologize. I don't have a problem. But it's unheard of that they're throwing away some flat-rate conviction that they're grumbling. Regarding this report, look, let's take sides, go from page 1 to page 80, and say, look, on this page this thing is unreal and false. On page 25, don't hold that and that. It is difficult for me to imagine that the government would dare to present in a report a government and parliament some false tables, some false things, these tables were not invented by ministers and not by the government, but these tables were obtained by institutions. And that would be the real debate, tell me, this number for this fan, for this mask, for this thing it doesn't hold. The epidemic was not announced at the time, WHO did not say this, these are specific debates about reports, but not some kind of flat-rate conviction and a sense of terrible division, anger and all of this is normally spread out. But no one was or very few people were there when it was the worst when the daily reports were that the equipment was only for the next three days. I want to know where you've been the biggest critic when it's hard to look in the face of a person who's 30, 35 years in health care and crying in front of you, not knowing what's gonna happen in the next three days. Will they send their employees to treat the infected without equipment so that they will consciously get infected? We've been faced with such things. And in those circumstances, we had to work. At least in my ministry, there were a lot of people, women, men who spent hours and hours working on Saturdays, working on Sundays, working for the country, and for all of us, and in the end, all of these people are common criminals. Because anyone who's intercepted an email that was in an email today is waving at him that he's done something wrong. Anything you want, you can get, you can put on a platter, it's given in the report. For my own house or for the Ministry of Defence, we already have three investigative institutions inside that will take us down to our underpants. We had a state audit committee, we have a KPK, we have an Court of Auditors, see, there will be nothing to say that it was impossible to verify that the authorities were not aware of all these things. Then we will see what the responses will be when all these things are done. I sleep peacefully because I know we haven't done anything wrong, at least not in my ministry. I believe that this will also show all the investigations, and the honourable Member very kindly ask you for so much truth to tell the truth. I've alerted you to those things where I obviously know you've been lying to me, for all the other things I'm not going to let go into them, so I'm not going to blame you, either. But it would be wise and wise to talk here in some objective things, to talk about real facts, not fictional stories. And that we are also aware of the context and circumstances in which we have worked and that there is no impression that only in Slovenia are we so incompetent that we have only had problems in Slovenia. I don't know, but in Parliament you also get similar dispatches from ministers, but problems with protective equipment had virtually everything, just all European countries. From the most developed in Scandinavia, to Western Central Europe – all had problems, all of them, not just us. So when the whole context is set, it will only be possible to talk about real stories. And what I wanted today was for someone to tell me what was missing in the report, what wasn't true. Not that one of you claims to be a pamphlet, but that no data is relevant. I don't know what else you can give me as opposition Members to say what else we can do. [[…]] We put in the report everything we can give, there are three supervisory institutions in our house, there will be a parliamentary investigative commission that will also require material. I don't know what else we can do for transparency. I can't imagine, you'll tell me if there's anything more we can do. We have sought transparency. I also spoke publicly about all the things I have done in front of all of Slovenia, so that I have a calm conscience here. Above all, I wish you and Ambassador Tomić and everyone else to be healthy and never to be in my shoes, because I tell you that these were the two hardest months of my life, the two hardest months of my life. True, I was fortunate enough to have never had severe life tests, such as illness and other problems, but it was extremely difficult. And I won't afford it to anyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u47	Thank you very much. They were previously registered for procedural purposes. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay, replicas. Here you go, colleague Tomic. Procedural, you've been reported before. And I would ask all those who were reported, I have written in this order: Ambassador Tomić, Dr. Trček, Sukič, mag. Before I give you my word, Koprivc, please also indicate which article of the Rules of Procedure you are referring to for a procedural proposal. Here you go, Mrs. Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u48	Yes, given that I've been mentioned so many times and that I've been convicted of lying, I'd like to go on a case-by-case basis to talk. I'm really sorry if I've offended you, but I'm trying to operate on the facts in this House and I have the facts that Akron is employed there by your mother. It's a fact verified, but no. The other fact is that this one got one of the more record deals worth 30 million. But the fact is, your Members attacked me that this same company, Akron, was funding the New Slovenia campaign and is in Ipes. [[advertising from the hall]] He's in Ipes. Isn't that a fact? And the fact is, [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u49	Please calm down. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u50	The secret leader of the parliamentary group. [[Incomprehensible]] Where's the lie? I didn't say that Mr Horvat had anything to do with it, but I asked why he was the leader of the parliamentary group in saying he was a friend of one of these scientists. [[Incomprehensible]] I was just asking. And the I.P.E.E. is lying to you, too? Is the APIS lying too? Here writes the company Acron d.o.o., Pameče 167 2380 Slovenj Gradec donated for the campaign of New Slovenia but the amount written here is not important, but it is. I'm talking facts, am I lying? I'm asking you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u51	Please, Mrs. Tomić, which article of the Rules of Procedure are you referring to, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u52	Please kindly my procedural proposal is not to bet on lies, but to talk on the basis of facts and I have evidence for every claim I make.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u53	Please. Dr. Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Article 69 of the Procedural Rule refers to it, which states that the Rules of Procedure shall explain to the President that when a person requests it, he shall be given a word immediately. There were a few abuses of procedure now and also a guest in the byte, which colleague Tonin knows very well, because for a time even the president of the National Assembly could not explain the Rules of Procedure, since he had previously done so at the beginning of his writing. My procedural proposal is to stick to Rule 69 of the Rules of Procedure and Rules of Procedure as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u55	Thank you very much. I'm keeping my business as it is. Did Mrs. Sukić have the next procedure? [[No, no, ……]] Mag. It's a nettle, isn't it? Mag. Tonin, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u56	I apologize for not knowing the rule that we should sit and not stand if this was understood as teaching and explaining the Rules of Procedure. Nothing bad on purpose. Where Ambassador Tomić has told a lie and does not want to admit a mistake and insists on hers, and I think she will get past it. In her implementation, she made it clear that Minister Tonin had arranged his mother's business, that was her claim. Minister Tonin has not arranged anything, and this has been made public several times. This has been said on numerous broadcasts, in many online media, and you insist on this. But you insist, because you want this lie to be accepted, you discredit me, and you attack me in this way. If that is not the case, Ambassador Tomić, then all I expect from you is a simple apology. I apologize for letting you do business with Acron, that's all I want. I accept the apology, and we're done. I don't have any more problems. It's human to be wrong, that's all. It's one thing where you lie and insist on this thing. On the other hand, Acron did not give any donations to Nova Slovenije. What you're saying and what you're exhibiting and what some web portals have written is some 500 Euros paid by the client's municipal committee for the materials he bought in this store, they didn't give anything. We have paid just as we have paid the Post of Slovenia three times as well as many other companies with which we ordered such and different services in Slovenia. This is once again such a very sophisticated manipulation, draw from the Apes out a number, some reports that roll on Twitter online where some amount of EUR 500 is from Acron and this explains that it was a donation. But this really comes from business reports like we have to give to all political parties, that for this amount we just bought some goods from them and that's all. Madam Member, if you are truthful and cultural, then only on these two points do I expect your human and secret apology for making a mistake, which is not too much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare himself for the mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u58	Thank you, President for your word. I'll be very short, really. I will be quick about two words mentioned by my colleague Horvat. The temple of democracy, yes, we are here in the temple of democracy, I ask you whether it is acceptable to accept here one conclusion, which is illegal and unconstitutional – in the temple of democracy. That's the first question I'll ever ask. Because this decision, which is written here, is illegal and unconstitutional. And let's be clear about that. Let's be clear about that, shall we? I'm going to the report now. Ma, the sooner I talk about the report, the sooner you let me do one thing. Ma, the praises I've heard this morning from the Prime Minister, from John Janša, regarding the addition that they have brought to the pensioners and to the students and all that it is. Thank you very much, you can. Well, at this point, they can have all the possibilities in a state of emergency. They have rounded the budget – billions of available, debt that will rise to 82.5. And we can make that promise that one president once made to a thousand euro pensioners. It's done now. Then what will be the consequences? To brag about things like this, look, please. And I am pleased that they received the pensioners’ allowance and students, absolutely satisfied – ma, do not boast about it. You have money, tax money, that doesn't even know what that means for tomorrow. The only good news I heard was that he said that if I heard it correctly, he probably understood that it would probably be the end of this state of emergency on May 31. Then we'll do the bills where all those billions went, right? We'll take a look at this. But once again, as a colleague from the SMC who said that there is no KNJF institution controlling these matters, we need to set up a commission – what the SAB has been saying since the beginning, that one commission should be set up to control where this money is going. That's what you were against. To make an account to make a budget fund, you're not, either. [[Incomprehensible]] Now, because of getting such a report that I will not say a partial report, I think this is one political matter prepared in this way, only with the interest of protecting the current government, nothing else. Since that report says "respected Members, see here, we write what we like to say, it is written, everything is fine in this report and we will vote that way." Of course you will. Of course you will. And then you will boast of the day after tomorrow "you voted in Parliament that the report is fine", of course. Where? In the temple of democracy. Democracy. It's a democracy, okay. Look, as far as this decision is concerned and here are the points, I'm going to say it quickly, because I don't even have more time. But the only thing I agree with you here is that it wasn't taken care of in time to supplement and activate the state protection plan. That's what I've always said where this plan is. I've always asked the boards if you have or don't have this plan, he was prepared, he wasn't ready, he wasn't ready before. But we haven't said that since yesterday or since the previous government, we've been talking back for 20 years. Because I also made it clear, these plans, they're written down, they're made, we have to have them in these stages. And here I agree with you - but then we move on, right? At the time of the outbreak, there was neither equipment nor this ordered, protective equipment, and I don't know what. Now I am pleased that Minister Restoration is here – how can you from the government write in and fear how the equipment was not obtained if you were the same people before, the same people now? Same people. Who's to blame here now? Who's stupid here now? Who gave the order for this equipment to be procured? Who has this responsibility to have this equipment inside? I'll say otherwise, but I'll say otherwise, Minister: for me, I don't know how many minimum reserves there should have been, but also the situation was different, there was no pandemic, there was no pandemic, there was nothing, there was nothing, there was a minimum amount needed to stay in if anything happened at any location. No one knew this would surprise the whole world. That's why I'm saying it's stupid to talk about this. And, of course, it's also right if you were getting equipment, because it's right that you got it. The problem is how you got it, that's our problem here. Not that you did it. No one has ever spoken ill of your various actions or what needed to be done, since no one has ever said anything, and I have never personally, nor have I, I have always praised, commended. Then, if we move forward, that after 13 years of emergency personal protection was provided, and so on, the drastic consequences of the epidemic were prevented. Like what? Because we didn't have masks? Why? What's the big deal? What did we really prevent? How many people were in intensive care at this time? Tell me how many there were. We mobilized all the hospitals across Slovenia, blocked the entire economy, we did damage, huge damage. Watch out, that's not what I'm saying. This is also said by experts throughout Europe, why this has been done. Slovenia, it has done its job well. Don't tell me that because you're the one who bought the horace, we're gonna say all this equipment. Who? Masks. You know what we have in here? These masks don't need anything. We don't need this mask here completely. Nothing. Not for the one he wears, not for the other. Nothing. That's what the experts found out. We're wearing these masks here without a connection. Let's just talk to people's masks. That's it. [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] That's what it is. And look at this, it's true what it is. And that's not a protective mask for nothing. If then we can say that we are doing any masks here in Slovenia, they are for the population. Why the population? For who? I mean, no connection. Here I am, a real mother. However, the average price of most personal protective equipment items was purchased in extraordinary circumstances, which is also significantly lower than the average price of most items in the time of Ma God help, the minister listen to me, listen to me. [[…]] You were the hotel manager, one if you order one room at your hotel, or you say in three weeks you order them the entire hotel. Is that a difference or no difference? I think you'll agree with him at a different price. Somewhere you're talking about the price of masks that were ordered earlier, which were ordered masks and I don't know from that caregiver, I don't know what he said once, one different term, colleague duck, I mean, look. It's absurd to order one or order 200. Then what are you bragging about? You're bragging on the government portal. What the hell is that? Where did you see that? Write down that you've done and made a fortune, and don't brag about saving it here. [[…]] Nonsense, come on. And that really pisses me off. And now let one more thing be clear. Let me be clear, some still think that the various protests, the disagreements that are taking place due to these measures to contain the epidemic, are not protests about measures. It's not that. Protests are solely for the unfair, non-transparent operation of these procurement processes. That's all this is about. Nothing else. I never said this wasn't our job here. [[Incomprehensible]] I don't even care about that. But if you'll excuse me on the right, you're also going to mass, so that somehow we should be even more honest than others can possibly be, I don't know. But, well, you know what this is about. But in the light of that. And you know what the worst part is. Day-to-day intimidation. Stop it once, because you're scaring people so there's another wave coming in so there's a third wave coming. Who said that? Where is it? Why does he have to be so scared? If it is, it will be. Now we have the supplies, we have everything, you've done everything possible that you need to do. Thank you. But in a way, that was the problem. That was the only problem. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The replica has Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much to your esteemed colleague Mark Bandellli for somehow stressing that we are both in the temple of democracy. I can say more, it's a sacred house for me. Comrade Bandelli, you were also a minister, an excellent businessman and so on. I've been a member of Parliament for some time now. You're talking about an unconstitutional decision. I didn't know you were the Constitutional Court. The issue of non-constitution in this country can be decided – Who? – the only and only Constitutional Court, dear colleague Marko Bandelli. That's what you asked me, so I'm answering it in the replica. Secondly, I also thank you for the scientific expertise on masks for which you, colleague Bandelli, have given us a letter from the law firm. I hope that I will never succeed with this slip so that I can mutilate a Slovenian company so that it must now seek its right through a lawyer's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Yes, Mr. Bandelli, patience. Yes, you do. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u62	Yes, patience is. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u63	We have two suggestions for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u64	Now you've stopped me and you're gonna give me 15 seconds more time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u65	Look. We've got [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u66	Procedurally, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u67	Two procedural proposals before you and I ask you nicely, first Dr. Trček, but, please tell the article of the Rules of Procedure to which you refer, Article 69 allows you. [[Incomprehensible]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u68	Dear President, the Duck is the last one you're going to go after like this. 285. Article referring to how the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has been assigned work since the entry into force of this Rules of Procedure, as a Legal and Legislative Service under the provisions of this Rules of Procedure and colleague Prekmurec, could apologize to all ladies from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. This is why we have a legislative and legal service in the National Assembly, and I will say once again that the voters of Janez Janša will also understand – based on article 110 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia The National Assembly is not a free prostitute who can have any Government, in any way it can insert anything, and what you wanted to include, you have inserted wrongly, on purpose, no basis in the legislation, no basis in the Constitution, no basis in the Rules of Procedure. There's two talks in the mill on a committee led by the Magi. Rajic, he said it three times. If the President of the National Assembly had already overlooked this, which should have stopped if the College of the President of the National Assembly had overlooked it, which is also a mistake, the leaders of the opposition groups, should not have signed the matter. I was in Parliament at 6:43 a.m. so I could read this in the morning. So, don't lie to me and don't insult me a dozen, more than a dozen ladies who are working in this house at the Law Enforcement Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Member, let me say that Article 285 of the Rules of Procedure speaks of when this Rules of Procedure shall enter into force. [[advertising from the hall]] Dr. Alaj Kovačič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, chairman. I myself have two procedural proposals, the first is to tell me first, under which article of the Rules of Procedure you require that when a Member requests a procedural one, you speak to which article it refers, because, as far as I am reading the Rules of Procedure, Article 69 states that a Member may advertise and request a procedural one, but does not say that he must specify which article this refers to. However, the second procedural proposal is that Member Horvath'sprintate's opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and then, without a doubt, when he reads it, he will most likely understand why this decision is illegal, but it is interesting that he is speaking, who is speaking, what is unconstitutional, because they were talking about a few laws that are unconstitutional and in what way they should be accepted when others were saying that if something is unconstitutional, let the Constitutional Court say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u71	Yes, I will give you the answer why I suggested that you refer specifically to the article because I find that the procedural proposals so far are more of a debate and that I do not say what, so that we do not repeat ourselves, I want the article on which the procedure relates. Mr. Bandelli, you do, too? [[…]] Procedural. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u72	Thank you. Procedurally concerning Mr Horvath, because he lied about me getting a lawsuit, I don't know which person or any law firm, which is not true, which was also false at Studio City, from a certain Member. No one got, no one got any complaints about this, no one, and please apologize for telling Mr. Horvath to apologize. We just agreed because I never mentioned the company, not the name, not anything, but the product that the country bought, the shameful product that is not worth nothing at all and we achieved what? That the same company that called us began to produce quality — I tell you the truth — quality new masks that will cost about 28 cents. That's what we've achieved. That's what Mark Bandelli has achieved. And we're gonna get a thousand of them for the bar and we're gonna put them in retirement homes, so you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u73	Thank you very much, but I don't know what your procedural proposal is. [[talking to each other]] Procedurally, Dr. Runcho, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u74	Yes, my procedural references to Rules of Procedure from 75 to 80 - I will not read them all - which talk about maintaining order at the meeting. Please use them, Presidents, if you are unable to use them, but I suggest you, as provided for in Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure, because you cannot maintain order at the meeting of the National Assembly in order to terminate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u75	Thank you very much for your proposal, but I will continue the session. The word was wanted by a government representative, mag. Tonin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u76	Vice President, thank you very much. I am still patiently waiting for Ambassador Tomić's apology. It's not about me, it's about my mom, and if she's got any hearts, then I don't think she'll have to do it, because when I see things before, I prove it, she just walked away and couldn't make it up. Another time. What we solved when we were getting all this stuff. I think that's what Member Bandelli was asking, which I think has happened to him in his political career, and perhaps he understands better how it is to be accused once in the wrong. What did we do? Yes, we've saved quite a few human lives, and we've solved the fact that health care has been able to provide adequate care for patients. Ambassador Bandelli, each week we sat in Cankar's home with some 70 to 100 directors, hospital chiefs, health homes and they expressed gratitude that if we did not provide this equipment, then we could not treat the patients' COVID because they said they had no heart to send medical personnel without protective equipment to these rooms where the COPID patients were resident. Even, you won't believe it, there was so much pressure in Sharja near Jelšah that the health center borrowed this protective equipment from the motorists. At the automobiles. And if it weren't for this protective equipment, the medical staff couldn't take care of these COVID patients. Here's a concrete connection because it was your question, yes, what we solved, what we actually did. Next thing. Today I heard a bunch of things about how the top report is a pamphlet, how it sucks, that it just says that the previous government didn't do its thing, and this government was doing everything great. Yeah, right. The 75th page of this report states, inter alia, that the acute situation on the European and global markets has quickly highlighted the problem of working on stocks. The employees were not adequately trained, they were not adequately trained, and they were also kept up to the level of work. In addition, the situation worsened when they were on supply reserves during management when the infection occurred. That's what made the job even worse. When you say that we are not critical of ourselves, that we only write everything about superlatives, see, this report is objective and we have objectively acknowledged that the supply reserves were not suitable for such extensive purchases. That's a fact, and we don't deny it, and we don't know anything about it. But the good question is, yes, why did this happen? Because by then all regular health care providers had completely cancelled and the hospitals and health institutions had not been able to obtain the appropriate equipment. That's the reason. Would you have found a better institution in the country than the trade reserves? Question. Why were trade reserves selected, we come to the point highlighted by Member Bandelli, this famous, state-owned plan for protection and rescue in the event of an epidemic or pandemic of infectious diseases in humans. Do you know when this plan was adopted? This appropriation is Do you know when he was activated? The same day the Sharchev government left when this epidemic was declared. And you know what the plan says? In this plan, which you also have as an annex to this report, when you say that everything is a mess, the annex on the 21st page, when it speaks of what everyone has some responsibility under this plan, states, inter alia, that the Ministry is responsible for health, setting up and running a crisis group that coordinates planned activities with other ministries, government services and civil protection commanders. Identify health measures, prevent individual communicable diseases, activate and guide the implementation of measures, monitor the state of supply of medicines, equipment and medical devices and propose the use of supplies reserves. What did the government do? Having seen that things were under, I would say the Ministry of Health under severe pressure in those circumstances, is only from the Ministry of Health one level higher, it raised this crisis headquarters to the government level and established a crisis headquarters. We've been doing everything else according to this state plan. Once again, according to this national plan, this crisis headquarters is responsible for monitoring the state of supply of medicines, equipment and medical supplies and proposes the use of supplies. But if we move on, when we talk about the duties of the ministry responsible for the economy, it writes the following. That these stocks are to be monitored and regulated through the use of stocks on the market in order to prevent a critical reduction in stocks of vital products, including medicines and medical devices. So, now the fact is that the Government has found in its recommendation that the selection of inventory due to human resources skills, the recruitment of staff has not been the most optimal. This is what the government itself finds in the report. The answer to why the trade reserves were chosen to do these things is in a state plan that our Government did not accept. This State plan was adopted in 2016. And now there's another very important conclusion that you're going to do a little bit of rapping on. Do you know that in 2018 a kind of stress test of this state plan was made? And in 2018, among other things in this stress test, one of the major shortcomings is that the staff responsible for these acquisitions are not sufficiently qualified. So what we have now found in this epidemic has been known for some time. Now, blaming someone for why it was so, whether it's Sharcha's government or not, but the previous government, I'm not gonna deal with these things. But I'll tell you the facts that are in line with the state plan. And one more thing we've done about this state plan. At one of the previous meetings, it was my duty to present the whole government with this whole state plan. What you see in this state plan, which is an annex to this and is, I would say on 37 pages of some rules how to act in individual situations and in particular circumstances, is a smaller part of all this state plan. Because if you see it, then every single thing also says that there's an attachment where there's details. And this state plan is two big files. The ministers all got it. Why? This is because if this were to be a truly accurate state plan, such as they had in Austria or Poland when an epidemic occurred, they themselves brought out decrees 1, 2, 3, when that happened and so on. We are not prepared to this extent of this state plan, because things were very superficial, so when we went to look, I don't know, for the Ministry of Education, Economy, Health, Agriculture and others, these instructions were very general. We're gonna do our best, we're gonna do our best, we're gonna do our best, we're gonna do our best, we're gonna do our best, we're gonna do our best, And that's why it was already the government's decision to update this state plan and complete it in a way that when the second wave comes, that there will be no improvisation and no nocturnal decision-writing, but that decision will be known in advance and will know exactly when such an epidemiological picture will follow this and this plan. We're working on it. Member Bandeli, otherwise another wave of infections, is not a conspiracy theory, it is a fact in some other countries that have faced this epidemic very successfully and are facing another wave today. Therefore, if we are to watch and work two steps forward, we must also be prepared for these things. And we can be prepared in a way that, in the first phase, we can precisely draw up and review this state plan, at the second stage, to make a precise description of how much protective equipment we need now, if it collapses together, and if it is not possible to obtain any protective equipment within one, two or three months of what kind of supplies we need. We do this because the hectic and all the problems that have happened to us this time will not happen again in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Runczek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u78	It follows from Article 239, which in the second indent speaks of what should be going on here, I quote: “If the Government sends a written report to the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Member of the Council. The representative of the Government may explain the written report at the meeting of the National Assembly.” Now my procedural proposal is Members and Members we are perfectly capable of, all of us 90, otherwise we would not have passive electoral rights and I would ask that the representatives of the Government do not read us from the report because we have already read it. Let them reason with him to answer questions they have not answered. You know, Minister Restoration was hiding for 14 days now, it's a little insulting, and now he's coming, and he didn't want to answer the questions to the press. The government can, nor is it necessary, here the Rules of Procedure should be amended, I hope that Tonin agrees with me, and I regret that you did not propose this to colleague Matthew when you were in. President of the National Assembly. In short, in accordance with Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure as a Member, I expect them to explain. No one has ever explained to us why you planned this scheme that you can't explain. We don't have to read it, we read it, multiple times. This report, the Gallet's comments report, something else. But as for these poles, fellow Matthew, what some of us here have had in any college, what we have already had, general human resistance and social self-protection, which Janša used to teach and then killed us with mobilisation plans, we still have this in our fingertips. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I ask that the representatives of the Government indeed adhere to this second paragraph of Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure and explain this to us. The minister has signed up for the rest of his life. Here you go, mag. Tonin.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u80	Member Trček, I have been in Parliament so long that I know the Rules of Procedure and I am doing exactly what Member Trček quoted from the Rules of Procedure. I'm explaining the report. And today in the debate, you have pointed out that this report is a pamphlet, and I just wanted to prove to you, and I don't know how else to prove to you that I am quoting the specifics of the report, that the Government has also found out about the actual circumstances as they were. That was the interpretation of the report. The second thing Ambassador Bandelli asked was the same. And I think that what I have explained about the state plan is absolutely necessary to say why the trade reserves were determined to implement these things. It is likely that all together in this room we are presenting what a hall it would be like for the Government to do something its own way and to conclude that we were working against the national plan. I think it would be "urnebes" to finally find out that just before Sharčev's government left it was an active state plan, and then the government did something its own way and for some of its institutions and its organs to invent who would do these things. So we worked in line with the state plan. Otherwise, a friend of Mr Trček, whom I appreciate, was never a doer of duty, I was entirely the full-fledged President of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Procedural Dr. Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u82	Still Article 239, I'm sorry, that was a little under the belt, that's true. You were the president of the National Assembly. Since my procedure was not well understood, I will explain it. I don't know, at least sometimes they teach somewhere else on the FDV, you quote when someone in a sentence or two says what they'd say to you in five sentences or three minutes. But you're quoting, of course, in another case. We're both masters of science. Please, if you're going to quote a colleague when you really want something in two sentences, in other cases, just summarize it because we've read it. There's no need for you to read us away here and half because you're burning time and someone else won't say, "Look, Tonin's doing it all the time for him not to answer." That's it, thanks. I hope it's understood now. I have to do this as a perfox after all.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mag. Did you want the rest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u84	Yes, honourable Members, Members, President, thank you for your word. Today we are discussing a government report on the acquisition of protective equipment. I heard a call today at the beginning, and I think it was made by Ambassador Knezak when he said to tell the facts. And that's my wish, too. May 14th, this is the date today of course it is easy to analyse the weeks when Slovenia was in a very serious health crisis. We have thousands of public procurement experts in Slovenia right now, thousands of medical equipment knowers and thousands of medical equipment knowers, and thousands of top sellers who specialize in the Chinese market. I wonder where all those people were when the epidemic also broke out in Slovenia and we found ourselves in a situation where all of these knowledge was urgently needed, including us in the government. Do you think the government had time to think in peace about how to make purchases of protective equipment? We didn't. We worked in extreme weather, we worked as a team, we helped each other, we looked for solutions that were sustainable, in accordance with legislation, and in particular Slovenia provided sufficient equipment in time. Those who today claim otherwise, do not, and do not want to know very simple facts. And in this way, it will be difficult to come to what should be our common goal – to clarify the background of purchasing protective equipment, to explain to the entire Slovenian public why we spent our common money. I find it difficult to explain all the contracts, all the business, all the commissions, the margins. I think a lot of them don't even know what commission is, and what a margin is. Because this work is irrelevant today. You who object to the facts in the government report do not believe, but we do not have any other than the facts. I am not as skilled with words as you are with skill, but I know what laws are, what the Constitution is, and what my conscience is. And these are the red lines of my action everywhere. That's why I'm going to be hard to accept, or hard to accept, that you're telling me that I'm lying, that I'm stealing, that I'm a criminal, and that I've heard something in the discussions on the past two committees. These are hard words that are easily spoken only by those who have never had a serious responsibility themselves. Because if we did, we would know how difficult it is to make decisions and how difficult it is to be held accountable when such decisions also entail the situation of people or the whole country. But allow me a few specific explanations. As far as the high margins are concerned. I think it was Ambassador Kordish from the left. Akron has demonstrated, both business and professionally, its relevance and competence. This was also confirmed by the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, not by Minister Restoration or Minister Tonin. Three contracts have been signed with the company, all on the supply of FF52 protective masks that we need most in health care and that we had at least. I do not particularly sympathize with this company Akron, but I must admit that one of the rare companies that managed to deliver early equipment in the most difficult times and also to realize early I think in the second contract what is written. In doing so, I am not talking about the purchase of ordinary three layer masks, but about masks — I repeat — of the FF52 type, which at the time had an extremely high demand for protective equipment on the market. I cannot go beyond the fact that the price of protective equipment cannot be compared in any way with those of the epidemic. The price of protective equipment has risen rapidly and we explain it to you and prove it from day to day. Many people have or have the wrong opinion that I have personally determined or negotiated for the price of protective equipment. Don't hold it. We had the jobs and the employees who did this, and also the many heroes mentioned or whatever you call them. At the time of the signing of the contracts of the Acron Commercial Reserve Office, an Interdepartmental Working Group has already been established, which has tested and validated the entire contract safely. It also took its role in the signing of the contract. We are talking about a number of experts who have assessed the purchase of protective equipment and have apparently concluded that the offer and the price are appropriate and comparable to the others. This isn't about laying down responsibility, it's about an undeniable fact. As far as the FF52 mask is concerned, I can only add that the price of these masks FF52 by Acron was 3.90 euros for a piece of VAT. The average price of ordered FF52 masks in the previous Government, the Sharčev government however you want the same type and 4,64 euros for a piece of VAT. The average price of ordered masks in the current government was 4.14. Here's what I'm going to say, because it was said about z and no VAT. It is also known that the average price of FF52 masks for healthcare professionals on the European market was between 3 and 6 euros during the same period. I must also thank the previous Prime Minister, Mr Sharpe, for having confirmed what I have been stressing for a long time, but obviously no one wants to hear. The central acquisition of protective equipment through the institution was introduced only by a decision of the current Government of 14. 3. 2020 at the second government meeting. Previously, different institutions were responsible for this from individual hospitals, other health institutions to companies and institutions. This is also my answer to all the allegations and insinuations that I, as Minister of the former government, have left empty warehouses. Of course, this is not true and I hope you all understand why there were no large quantities of protective equipment when the epidemic was declared in the warehouses of the Department of Stocks. There's something else about publishing contracts, because I've heard different interpretations here. At the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which I am leading as Minister, we have decided that all information on the procurement and content of the contract is publicly available on the website of the Institute. MGRT requested that contracts on the e-procurement portal be published no later than 48 hours after the signature, we also did so. This strong information about how someone discovered something stems only from what is found on these websites that we have published and wanted to make everything we do publicly and clearly. Now there's something else about what I've already started with regard to non-compliance with VAT. Indeed, in the table in the report there were technical errors, showing a comparison of the average prices of the previous and the current Government for the three key items supplying FF52 protective equipment, fans and protective clothing, because VAT was not taken into account in the current government's orders. However, if the price of the protective equipment of the current government is equipped or added to the VAT, the price of the FF52 masks and the fans purchased by the current government is still lower than that of the previous government. The masks of the previous government of 4.64 euros apiece, these two, that I will not repeat, the masks of the current government of 3.40 on average, were written earlier, pardon me, and according to this tax is 4.14. Fans, 49 thousand 154.55 euros for a piece in the previous government, 33 thousand wrote or wrote in report 880 for the current government, it is correct 37 thousand 0.99 euros per piece. And the protective clothing, in the previous government 23.06, in the current government, says 26.71 wrong, 32.58 wrong. It's also obvious that we photographed each other in the supply of protective equipment. Yeah, it's true. We took pictures or took pictures if you want. We had at least one picture ahead of us, because when we took our new term, we didn't have anything to paint. And now for the end. Anyone who wants to see more about the story of buying protective equipment than effort, nonhuman efforts, circumstances, including improvisation and the simple resolution of piles of questions should ask himself how to handle a comparatively difficult task on his own. I'm making it comparatively heavy. Knowing how to turn words is one thing, knowing how to grab a big one by the corners, but it's something else. And from this town, the problems that Slovenia had at the outbreak of the epidemic seem to be smaller and theoretical, but we who worked with the people on the ground know that it was not possible to do otherwise than we did. Our phone numbers were ammunition for all kinds of pressure from all sides. That is why we all need to give the opportunity now to the authorities and institutions which are responsible in Slovenia for investigating the crimes of spending public money and, finally, for political responsibility. And I would like to see all the investigative procedures already mentioned, announced, initiated as soon as possible and completed in due course. I don't want the shadow of the mask to follow me forever because I'm probably the only one in the whole story who's been publicly exposed with his name and work so that other people can do their job wherever they've been working with less pressure. Never and never, Member Terček, have I been hiding and not now. I am behind everything I have done, and I believe that all the procedures that will examine what we have done will show that we have done all this in accordance with the rules in force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Trcek has a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u86	Yes, it still applies to Article 239. I'm glad the minister finally started to explain things. The fact is, Mr. Minister, you weren't on the boards, he was your Secretary of State. I've spent more time with Mr. Cantharutti than with my own family for the past 10 days. Of course, since there is also a constitution when there is a small constitution, this constitution speaks in Article 114 on the organisation of the government: ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the government. Well-intentioned, Mr. Restoring, and I am the Duck, the sixth year you could have known that, you were in the 12th government, in the 13th government and in the 14th government. And some basic manners or humanity would say a premier colleague is that you don't insult the government in front of you. Now, if I were to say in a joke, I could say every time Zdravko Restoršek of the 14th government criticizes the 13th government, he's actually picking up his own slap. Let's get real. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u87	Mr Trček, I didn't see your procedural proposal if you might be able to formulate it more. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u88	Yes, I'm going to formulate it because you're probably lost when I read you the article of the Constitution and the article of the Rules of Procedure. My procedural proposal is that I am pleased that, finally, what the government can or cannot do, we have to change the Rules of Procedure here. And also not to be offended by the previous governments, whose visible limb was Mr. Restoration. Mr Rest is as long in governments as I am a Member of Parliament. You know, that's what I always say when an EMHO makes a few years for you to get to know people when you break up. [[…]] Some people who spit so much on their exes, I also got divorced in life, and even in those worst times, I'm not my ex-wife of separation spitting so much on each other as you now spit on each other. That's it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As I understand it, if I understand correctly, your procedural proposal for the Government to explain the report it submitted in writing. Are we done here, Mr. Duck?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u90	Yeah, sure. This government can explain its report, not the report of the previous government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I think that this is precisely the purpose of the meeting, so that your procedural proposal is virtually out of place. So we can proceed. The word has magic. Branko Grims, prepare yourself as Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! What's the oldest left-wing trick of all time? What you've been doing yourself, what you've been doing, and what you're doing yourself, write to your opponent, and then point your finger at him, and scream all over your voice, so that you don't notice what you're really doing. That's exactly what today's session is about. Every time we talked about a more problematic topic for Europe, such as the question of illegal migration, you shouted that this net intolerance is spreading hatred and so on. What is the content of your political behavior over the past week, all from what has been triggered by the media, which you hold firmly in the claws, is, of course, this, netting, spreading hatred, intolerance, calling for violence, to systematically planned violations of the rule of law. That's the content of what you're really doing and you're playing, by the way, at Murphy's marriage. That Murphy's law that says, "When the trumpet blows, there's all the brains in the trumpet." The more you scream loudly, the more likely someone is to fall for it because he does not even notice what is really going on or what the facts are. What have I done in all these times when we've been talking about illegal migration, and what else have I done to get on your nerves? Because I've been insisting on one thing since day one. Let law and order be respected. He consistently respects the rule of law and nothing but the rule of law. The legal order of the European Union, international law and, of course, the law of the Republic of Slovenia. That's all I've been insisting on. And that's what I was consistent with, and that's why I got on everybody's nerves. Because five years ago, everyone was talking about refugees, and I don't know all the nonsense. Today, everyone is talking about illegal migration and the problems it causes. I've been saying exactly the same thing for five years. And that's the problem with some. What are you really doing? You've launched a bunch of half-truths, lies. Leftistism is a religion of lies, they say at many ends of the world, and I must say that you are very much attesting to this, because by rejecting the truth in essence it is a religious act for you. You said yourself when the minister read some of the data from the report, the evidentiary, the verifiable, that you didn't care. Not because you wouldn't be able to understand it, but because you don't want to understand it, because left-wing is a religion of lies. What is unforgivable, ladies and gentlemen, is that if anyone has broken the law, in the previous or in this government or administration, he has to answer for it and this is the same for all citizens and all citizens. That's all I'm saying. I have advocated this since the first day I was in the National Assembly, even when I was in the Lonely Assembly, and I have advocated this today. But, ladies and gentlemen, then we must be consistent. If anyone has taken advantage of this unlawfully, to be investigated by law enforcement agencies, this is also a proposal from the Government, I support it. Let all those responsible, from the Court of Auditors, to the law enforcement authorities, carry out their task and verify that anything was illegal. That's it, that's it. But, as I said, then you need to be consistent, ladies and gentlemen, and there you fall on the line, right? Because then, you also need to look at how it happened. And then suddenly a very interesting question is asked – how does the articles of the Penal Code, which say that if someone by abandoning his duty or by depriving him or her of his or her work in the field of employment cause him or her to be in danger of his or her rights, say the right to health to cause material harm, even if there is some harmful consequences to his or her work, then the one who has not done his or her work is responsible for negligence. Oops, that's a problem, isn't it? And you say, yes, we're not gonna look at anything under the previous government. What happened there? The previous government was buying things more expensive than this government was buying. At a time when this government was buying equipment, protectively, at the height of the epidemic, when everyone was exploiting, but producers, manufacturers, intermediaries and everyone else, the pressures of individual countries and, of course, pushing prices, which is perfectly normal on the market. This has also been exploited by individual countries, over Slovenia, but some countries, in Europe, you probably know today, if you just drive around with your mask van, across their territory, they will confiscate everything you have in your van. But when it comes to solidarity when it comes to common European bonds or at least to implement a fund that has been agreed unanimously, there is, this solidarity, Europe, the end, and this is a very big problem that I should actually face here today – what will be the case with this poor Europe that is obviously sticking nails in its own coffin, right? But this goes beyond the scope of today's debate, or else you've outdone everyone else. As it is said, when basically and fundamentally, what is happening in these days, in politics, you are doing in the lowest possible way, that is to spread hatred, intolerance. Be careful, I will quote Article 297 of the Penal Code, which I believe many do not know; “Who publicly promotes or promotes hatred, violence, intolerance, which is also based on property status, education ” - property status, ladies and gentlemen, - “a social situation or any personal situation or political or other belief, and does so in a way that may endanger or disturb public order and peace or by the use of threats, insults and insults, shall be punished by imprisonment for up to two years.” [[…]] [[…]] You in the same breath, ladies and gentlemen, yell that someone is stealing, you don't know that, and you can't prove it, but we'll see later when the law enforcement authorities do it, what is the truth, and I think the truth is quite different, because if it's a reflection of a high price, that someone is stealing, then it's from this, by your logic, very easy to draw a conclusion. It's not your problem that the current government is stealing, your problem is that you've paid more for the same protection products before, so you can't steal any more, right? That's your logic when you know how to put it right, isn't it? And of course, it is that you invite people in the same breath to the street, which we have already witnessed, and we witness daily through all the media and everything, which means that it is fully fulfilled in 297. However, it is a crime, you are calling for something, it is said that it can endanger or disturb public order and peace, and it is punishable by imprisonment for up to two years, which means that it is a very serious matter. Ladies and gentlemen, if any of this Government is expected, this Government will respect the law, but here I directly address the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in the Government, and now I expect you to finally act against those who net hatred, who expose people to threats and this knowingly from political tendencies, and that you will imagine how it is in practice. I personally have in my family people working in public health. These people went to the hostels to avoid infecting their own family during the epidemic, while some lived and were lonely with their family when they had young children and were shaking daily or brought home an infection or not. Yet, they were so responsible and honored that, for example, they were transferred from a neurological clinic to an infectious clinic to a higher pandemic. Do you realize what these people have risked and what these people have sacrificed and could sacrifice? And you're threatening it by calling people on the roads, hanging out, making the greatest possible madhouse in the system worse when it's better for us, and let the devil take everything if we're not in power, and we can't steal anymore. That's the logic of lefties, ladies and gentlemen. And then you point the finger at the other one and yell that it was his fault. What I see as the only problem is that it doesn't follow the same principle for everyone. Once again, if anyone has taken advantage of themselves without exception, I am not interested in those who know the situation in politics. If anyone's breaking the law, let's get this straight. If he made personal use of himself, let him answer to the law. I don't care what the policy option is, but I don't care if it's a colleague or not a colleague. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is also appropriate that those who have caused negligence caused Slovenia to be completely unprepared for the pandemic, but had a gun in one of the parliamentary benches there earlier, not to say that he did not know or that he could not know what was coming, because the information that is not spoken of in Slovenia is evident, but you can check it out, the Italian Government has already published a pandemic announcement in the official paper at the end of January. Officially published. That is to say, those who were in power knew exactly whether they needed to know what was coming. And not only did Slovenia not act, you made a fool of yourself. I have personally experienced this and can also document it, by the then government and by some of the then coalition, when I cried out that air traffic should be stopped in the European Union from the Chinese, when it was time for the Chinese New Year, I addressed it to the Slovenian Government and to the Government of the European Union. There has never been an answer from the European Union. If I were a European Member, it would probably be different. Maybe then everything would be different. But the Slovenian government was shaving lunatics. And when I said we should close the border, and we should introduce quarantines, similar, but that's what I was saying in January, in February, you know, you were being a fool. It was, therefore, not ignorance, but a conscious threat to citizens and citizens. And the Penal Code has been fulfilled again. And that is why I expect the government to finally take action, and that it will do everything to ensure that we are all equal before the law. This is all I expect to see the laws apply to everyone and everyone in the same way. And to see what happened, how these circumstances happened, and how those who caused these circumstances are responsible for it. But if anyone has taken advantage of this one, of course. Then what should apply to all, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. By the way, I am very interested in how much you really know what the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is when you say that some conclusion of the National Assembly would be illegal. The National Assembly does not need a legal basis for accepting a finding, an assessment, a orientation, anything like that. He doesn't need to. That's bullshit. The legal basis is needed by the executive authorities, such as the administration, for their actions and decisions. The National Assembly, however, is a legislator and when it reaches a two-thirds majority, it is also a founder and is committed, when it operates within the framework of the Constitution, only to the Constitution and its Rules of Procedure and, of course, to the general legal order in its entirety.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Mr. Prednik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u94	Vice President, thank you. Look, there's still a pretty painful debate ahead of us for four hours, not just for us, but especially for those who watch it on TV, so I, Vice-President, would like you to point out to the Coalition Members that they stick to at least the topics that do not go into illegal migration, to the Penal Code that the President of the Government has already spoken about in his presentation speech, and that is not really today's topic, but coalition Members are asking what will happen to the European Union and so on. This will be discussed at other sessions, and today I would suggest that we stick to the darkness and endure these 3 hours and that we do not burden citizens and citizens with all other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u95	Thank you very much for your proposal. I agree with you, and I have written here, during Mr Grims' debate, quite a few things that do not belong in today's debate on this report, so that, in accordance with Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, the President is also concerned that it is only about the subject on the agenda, so let this be a warning to all the Members who are yet to be discussed. So now we move on. Mr. Duck has the next word, prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u96	Thank you, Madam President. I will take your recommendation to death seriously. Look, just for the introduction, let's solve one dilemma. There is no problem, there is no solution to life and there can be no excuse for corruption. More! There can be no excuse for the continuation of the organigram or system, my colleague Polnar would say it more nicely, corrupt acts. And they're supposed to talk to me about it. We don't criminalize anyone in advance. Next, just a report. Just this report is kind of like a bad graduation assignment that your student brings you, which I would like to graduate as soon as possible. Now, of course you will boast with a coalition that has so many sides, if we put on the page of some table that is more of an attachment, there is one, but little is said to be so in one country, so it was in another, it was in the third, there is some integral text perhaps one 20 pages, but if we give a page that you deal more with the former government than with your work, it shrinks to some dozen pages and then some attachments are somehow not traceable, because they are not signed by who actually stands behind them. Now, you know, serious politics starts when you look at the whole spectrum, not just what you would answer, but as a "cherry Picking," you just take the strawberry that suits you. The fact is that we had a decentralised procurement of this medical equipment and there were people in health care who had it. As a result, the fact that this potential pandemic was, of course, underestimated was that there was not much about Roy's equipment. Even if Janša’s Government had gone to watch two zeros, it probably did not blink at that time, and even if Janša had been able to assemble the government at the beginning of this term, they probably wouldn’t have pooped on the seams there, and those silos there, because I’m driving by often, and that’s some fact that shuts up. Now, some lifesaver, colleague Brglez while he was still here, unfortunately the left hand gave him Brussels, but more needed here, he also said as president of the National Assembly, which we like to stress is that democracy is also artificial self-restraint. You know, on the one hand, you will open your heart to thank all the righteous ones who have worked hard in these days and saved lives, and on the other hand you will adopt it. Give me some good taste. Of all those who really worked, I must be honest to say that I personally like Mr Šestan, unfortunately already the late Mr Bogataj knew how to choose a good successor. A calm man, not “toads” forward, does not say that he saved the whole world, but it was possible that this resolution was as important if not more important than those who now call us here. You didn't cancel some facts, the restroom got caught there on that tape, of course in some court proceedings falling, that's clear to me. You didn't cancel that some of the ladies were dating and yelling at someone. You didn't put any pressure on those unfortunate foster parents that you were, but the e-mails came out of the SMC, that you were looking there because it was more your hospital Celje to find someone who would bless you with what rest said the business was SDS. You didn't cancel that, you can't cancel that. I'm sorry, it's hard, it's not working. After all, there were people in Roja who were politically more of an SDS, and then you "carried" with SMC when you were already buying that protective equipment at 12. When the government wanted to explore this – now I am moving here, because it was in the cabinet – you wanted to prosecute the journalist Dnevnik. That's the facts. That's not what Duck was making up. The fact is that these contracts were then signed by 184 million, after someone whistled because they were really overheating, and he had, probably broke the film justly, and all of a sudden this fell to 92 million and the data now a few days ago was realised 23%. Just over 40 million, the order of size of the Premur Member is not here, you know, of course we're not talking about 100 million. You know what's most tragic. In Slovenia the government falls and we have the end of the world at one 8 to 12 million. This is the story of the LZ from the Transitional Government, where the Sharca government started to collapse, in those 50s, 60s, when my colleagues in the Left spoke, let's say 6 to 12 million, then it comes into some consulting contracts, some sponsorships, funds and so on. It's some kind of tragedy. I have already quoted, the ministers are jointly responsible for the work of the Government, now you who are "crushing" then if you are such, Mr Grims and similar, then you could not possibly go to bed with someone who has cooked so much before. After all, the president of the biggest opposition party, which you are most of the time SDS, which was defined by our present colleague, since we are not actually a party, we are a private company of one person sitting in the SNV. Then he is more likely to be more responsible than any Miha Kordish or anyone else who is squeezing anything. Then Mr Grimes says consistent respect for the rule of law. Yes, dear Branko then you can’t “pull” the Assembly of State a conclusion in some form, which is a report that the National Assembly is familiar with as stated in the Rules of Procedure. I mean, that's also clear to a 10-year-old kid. Then let's be consistent with ourselves. Now they usually come from NSI, which is more, I doubt they're Christian Democrats, and Freud's pulling me out. I think Freud is also considered a coalition, not just for the opposition, but for criminalization, but a thousand times a repeat lie. A lady often tells me what you're doing in the woods, you get it back from the woods, and I don't get it from my colleagues from SD all the time. In one matter, however, I absolutely agree with John Janša. In his key argument today, we citizens and citizens and the media are jointly responsible and guilty that Janez Janša is Janez Janša. And we've been putting up with this nonsense for 25 years, and it's about time we stopped. Finally, according to Branko Grims' definition, the largest leftists in Slovenia in the SDS are radical leftists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Janja Sluga, and Mr Željko Cigler is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u98	Yes, thank you very much. In fact, I can agree with some of the preliminary estimates that it is certainly a bit unusual for the government to have decided to propose a decision to the National Assembly on this report. We can agree on that. It certainly is. But the National Assembly is, of course, the one who decides what to do with this proposal. And the competent parliamentary committee has settled the amendment issue in a way that has actually been partially repaired and what you have on your desks today, I hope you have looked at. Regrettably, those who made the most outspoken warning that the decision was not appropriate are no longer in the hall. However, the fact is that this decision is being amended further today, and the fact is that this decision is informative. So there's nothing to tell him. And in the very explanation of this decision, this is repeatedly made clear, but it is only necessary to read it. In fact, I do not claim, nor have I ever claimed that in these acquisitions, the protective equipment really took place completely flawlessly, that there were no mistakes — far from that. However, I claim that all mistakes are committed in the same basket, that people are accused at the first ball and that I firmly believe that in the end, they will be accused by the wrong people and that in this story in the red tape, people are not in the roles that we or you have attributed to them. And I'm sure that's what I'm saying, and these applications will show up later. As our minister has already called for the work of the competent investigative authorities to be carried out, to be done as soon as possible, to be carried out by the Court of Auditors and so on. We join this call all the time in the SMC. Before me, a colleague also appealed to the Government or to a representative of the Government who is participating in this meeting today, repeatedly not to read the report because we had read it. He certainly read it, but a few colleagues in this National Assembly can be certain that he did not read it. Otherwise, such questions and comments as they had previously appeared would not appear. Only one question if he pointed out: “We do not know and we do not have the answer to who was responsible for the purchase of protective equipment before this Government commissioned the Department of Freight Reserves.” This has been exposed several times. You don't have to open the Internet and read it. It's all written. And several times it has been said and answered, and this report also says if a colleague reads it. So the fact is, under the previous government, the purchase was not centralised, that the hospitals, public institutions and so on, were themselves purchasing the protective equipment they needed. However, the fact is that the central storage of this equipment was not sufficient and, as it was finally established, the hospital supplies were not adequate to the situation required in the epidemic. Of course not, because no one expected it that way. But when the matter was centralized under this government, a very clear protocol was also adopted for procurement. And that's what my point is. This protocol is so clear that you know exactly who was doing something. Today, we point to people who had nothing to do with it. And some are not believed, nor on the basis of data, numbers, documents, arguments, and others are believed only in words. Therefore, this Protocol provided that the selection of equipment is the responsibility of the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection and rescue of the institution to submit and confirm only those offers that have undergone the security assessment and those for which the expert assessment is appropriate and the institution then prepares and signs the contract with the selected supplier and coordinates the activities for the acquisition of the same equipment in Slovenia. And this strong consensus of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which has been repeatedly mentioned, is very clear on page 27 of the report what this consensus included. And I now quote: "In this context of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology's consent, it only assesses the consistency of the content of the contract with the five-year programme of state supply reserves with which the Government has entrusted the Office of Central Procurement Reserves with. Verification of conformity of content refers to « - and attention – «the subject matter of the contract and the provision of financial resources». It is only what the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has judged. And if we turn a couple of pages forward, on page 31 is a table showing all the contracts with all the data and also with all the names and surnames of the signatories to these contracts. And not one of those contracts was signed by the Minister, not one. And even if we keep writing a little further, what the Minister has already said on several occasions, it has not been heard, on page 29 there are three contracts specifically cited in which the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology has detected irregularities and these irregularities have been pointed out by the Department of Trade Reserves. And oddly enough, all three of these contracts, where irregularities were detected, were signed by the same person. That was Mr. Gale. And here you have that I will not read everything now, very precisely stated what was wrong with these contracts. And when we talk about whether we made advance payments for fans or not and the Minister has assured us that the advance will not be when he talks about masks, but not about fans, you also have here an electronic message sent by the Department of Commerce, a gentleman I just mentioned, which says: "Hello, the country or the institution can buy, but does not want to take any additional risks. All producers require advances, of course without adequate insurance.’ And here we are talking about why not buy directly, why not buy from someone I don't know and where, it says very clearly here. Now, with regard to this theory of how the ministry in every way wanted to gain the right consent from Dr. Podbregar for a particular company. That theory falls on the line. You know why? Because both types of fans for which he was asked to give an opinion by Dr. Podbregar were from the same supplier. Then why would I seek consent to another fan of the same supplier if this theory of yours is true? And that's very important. Dr. Podbregar marked the real midray fan as better, but, once again, it was offered by the same supplier and it is public information. And it's very unfair to keep this information quiet. However, the fact is that MGRT required a second assessment – why? Because that same supplier at that time couldn't provide the other one because he was gone. And this is also evident from this report. If you count any number, what percentage of contracts listed here have been cancelled because prices, conditions, supplies and everything from hour to hour have changed. And that is a fact, and that is a reflection of the conditions in which these supplies were made at the time. And as far as the prices are concerned, I may not be able to cook too much time for my colleagues. I will read only one opinion of the recognised economist on how the market works in times of crisis and what price can be achieved and how this can then be assessed. And he says: "The assessment of these supplies will only be made relative to other countries and the situation on the market. We cannot make a flat-rate assessment without taking into account the relevant facts. The only fact is that in times of crisis there is nothing like it was before the crisis. Therefore, past data in times of crisis do not mean much.” On this basis, if we take into account the numbers that are attached to this report, where we can look at how other countries have purchased, at what prices they have purchased and what they have purchased, of course we can now make this assessment. This assessment is that Slovenia has been successful. And that we have purchased things at lower prices than other countries, which is particularly a recognition, because we are so small and because in fact our quantities have been viewed from the world market as negligible. And it was so much harder to even get some equipment. I'm gonna stop at this point and I'm just calling you, don't throw everybody in the same basket, don't point your finger at me. Look at the data, don't move around, and, like I said, in the position statement, whoever wants to see it has it in front of them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Željko Cigler is next given the word, and Mr Mikhael Prevc is being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Today, Prime Minister Ivan Janez Janša came to our Parliament and began by saying that there is no other country where the things that are currently happening in Slovenia in this national assembly would be happening. In doing so, a guest in the National Assembly came to present a report to the Government on the matter in question, which we are talking about today, responding to the suspicions of the increasingly massive data equipment appearing in the media. He came here to say it, but he didn't answer any of the obvious. What did he do? He started threatening, he started threatening Members, he started threatening the media, he directly mentioned RTV, he started threatening the previous government, and he started threatening the citizens and citizens of Slovenia who were protesting. This is an unacceptable matter for me to deal with this point, especially if this is caused by the president of the party who usurped all the repressive media, the President was once the Defence Minister and when he was the Defence Minister, the members of MIRISA soldiers attacked civilians on the road at Depalja village. We must be concerned about such threats. And such threats do not belong to this Parliament, especially if Knafl and Gallet are threatened with life. That's what I want to say first. Come in. When it comes to the acquisition of equipment, and the pity that Minister Restorationšek has left, I would like to say, Acron of Memory, at the memorial church is the border between Styria and Koroška, and I will say this, he has been of good faith in the acquisition of masks. Yesterday, however, the Journal warned us that there were more than 50% of the margins involved. Forgive me, but benevolence and humanity for 16 and some millions more than 30 million euros, as such doubts arise in other media transactions and through whistleblowers and the professional public. And that's what we're talking about today. In fact, the media-discovered suspicion of corruption, documents, data, data testimonies show that the procedure for ordering personal protective equipment for emergency medical equipment was at least questionable. As a result, so far equipment has been delivered, many have not yet been delivered, even though contracts have been signed, obviously, strongly, severely overpaid. I have shown concrete evidence, which Minister Restoringšek spoke of before, and it is a pity that Minister Tonin went out. In fact, new evidence that we have overpaid equipment, incoming citizens are reading, these are the ones who are giving money for these purchases. In the media, yesterday's Journal, it showed that Chinese companies offered quality verified cheaper equipment, was not written, or required advance payments, I think this was not the case, but prices were significantly, substantially lower. Here was the offer of masks from Alibaba or the offer prepared by the Slovenian Academy of Science and Art, where correspondence between the Ministry of the Economy, including Mr Cantatuti received this and also the President of the Government was informed about it and here was the Chinese offer, offered so, it is shown from the mail which, just got a glimpse into it, that the Chinese said, we can bring any of the Slovenian companies, the matter, the equipment you need, to Slovenia, to the airport, after a technical review of this equipment, you will pay for it. Mr. Cantharutti said other things. Look, that's what we're talking about. These answers are wanted by the citizens, the citizens who gave us the mandate and the money to respond to these problems, such as the epidemic, and the National Assembly controls this or the Government helps us and today's vote will, for me, repeat, illegal and illegal. Illegally because the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has warned that the document has been prepared in non-conformity with the Constitution, the Law and the Rules of Procedure and I ask you, Members and Members of the Coalition, why will you vote in favour of a document that is illegal and unconstitutional and inconsistent with the Rules of Procedure? Why, how can you vote for that? And I would also like to say this why it is illegal, because this document contains facts and data which are contrary to what they publish with data and what the witnesses give, in the media, and because the Slovenian Democratic Party Members who are "suspected" will vote on this today, according to media data, corruption interventions in the selection of intermediaries. In addition, I would like to say this when we are talking about protective equipment, the President of the Medical Chamber, Mrs. Čebashkova, Dr. Čebashkova, has warned, at this National Assembly, that the problem is still open to protective equipment and emergency medical equipment used to deal with the epidemic, because it is not available in enough quantities at crisis points, it is in nursing homes and in health institutions and yesterday we were informed - and let this Government deal with this information - Slovenia is first of all, after the proportion of residents of homes for the elderly, among the death victims of Covida-19. 80% of the dead are from the nursing home. Now they're dying, now that we're getting this equipment and we're talking about how much it cost, where you took it, where this equipment went, why it's not at these critical points, and this is warned by the Medical Chamber, where the doctors are united. In particular, I would like to warn you about this, look, it's started to investigate, at the National Investigation Office, the protective equipment business. There was also an investigation into the financing of the media of the Slovenian Democratic Party from abroad, but, the NPU summit was replaced, the police were replaced, the police were replaced, the police received new leadership. Criminals have been given new leadership, and SOVA has been given new leadership. These are all the supervisory bodies now run by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Did the president of the government, John Janez Janša, threaten us with these things? I'm asking. And finally, I would say this: citizens protesting in 10,000, throughout Slovenia, tomorrow we will probably witness an even greater protest based on data that has not received an answer not today and the question whether they can get it because of the evident, evidence of well-founded corruption and the excess of government powers, demand the active role of the National Assembly in clarifying these suspicions. This is what is expected of us and requires of the National Assembly in clarifying these suspicions. This is what is expected of us and requires of the people who have chosen us. It requires the activation of law enforcement and justice authorities, and the protestors strongly oppose the persecution of the media and individuals such as whistleblowers or experts who have publicly exposed these corrupt acts that I tell you about, the media gives us information if the government does not give us the right. And all this is done to the detriment of public health, to the detriment of the lives and health of citizens, especially the elderly, 80% of the death due to COVID was in homes for the elderly and, last but not least, to the detriment of public funds and, most importantly, to the detriment of the international reputation of the Republic of Slovenia. Look, if it doesn't get you through the time of this government, look into these things, and they'll be in the next call of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. And I would say that, to say the least, in such a vote, in such a document that is prepared inconsistently, I will say that only the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are certain that the Left will not cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next word is Mr Mikhael Prevc, to prepare Mrs Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear colleagues, distinguished colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! Look, I'm sorry to start by saying what bothers me the most in this room. It is weak or bad for two months that I am here again in this temple of democracy, and I regret to find that I have not heard so much lies in this short time or that I have heard so much more lies, hostility, negativity, especially on the left hand side than I have heard in the past two terms when I was also a Member of Parliament. Since Slovenia, like many countries around the world for the first time in history, has faced the deadly and gravely contagious disease COVID-19, countries have begun to seek protective equipment in a bitter way. We know, especially protective masks and medical equipment, ventilators. Since China, as the largest producer of this equipment, was already deep within the epidemic and the equipment was not enough to cover domestic needs, an inexorable fight opened up, the price of butchering of all the governments of the European States for the purchase of medical and especially protective equipment could be said to be the price of human life at that time. Especially health - care workers found themselves in an extremely difficult situation, and many with tears in their eyes literally prayed that without the necessary equipment they were completely powerless to save lives. Thus, in the procurement market, masks and respirators were created by real chaos and could be said to be a state of emergency. Individual ministers and other responsible ministers have sought various ways to provide the necessary equipment as soon as possible. Every relationship abroad was still welcome and many influential Slovenians offered sincere help because they wanted only to help Slovenia, which was in a really difficult situation because of the epidemic. Sadly, many of them soon experienced a cold shower, as they were immediately receiving reports of their own entourage and even war profits. Despite the fact that the Government was mainly given numerous pollens under its feet by the opposition, it succeeded in providing sufficient equipment on the cruel market in a short period of time for the health system to pass on the worst wave of disease, and that the number of infected has also begun to decline, thanks to the proper government measures. Slovenia thus found itself very high on the country's performance scale in the fight against the epidemic and also wished for a number of praises from foreign states. Today we have even heard from the President that we actually have the best epidemiological picture in Europe right now. That is why this ministerial team, health workers and, above all, all people of good faith, who have worked honestly and sincerely for our health, as a result of our lives, I offer all congratulations and thanks for the excellent work done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u103	Thank you very much. The next is Mrs Alenka Jeraj, Mr Predrag Baković is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. At first, I would have to protest, or say, like my predecessor, that such disqualifications, measured and rudeness to Members, according to what we have heard in the last month and a half, we have not heard. And I think it's up to the presidents to react to these things. That someone says the government steals like shit, that we're all thieves, criminal gangs and so on. I think that things that should not have happened and that the Presidents should have both you Vice-President and everyone else react to them, including threats to death and so on. It is necessary to talk about illegal activity, and it is necessary to have some evidence to do so, not to go to court here and judge people on the average. Before I go to the subject, perhaps only because I was mentioned several times by my colleague Violeta Tomić, Mr Kordiš and others. I sent one text message to Mr Zakrášk because I know him because we are in the same party because we participated in the years and years when the mayor of Great Lašč was still the area where I was elected. And I sent him a message about one company that it's okay to know them and to look at their offer. It was my SMS and the only contact connected to any supply of equipment. It's not lobbying for me. The lobbying is if I wrote to him and told him, choose this company. I told them to look at the offer, because in the mountain of offers they had, they could miss it, and people would send us offers, and they would send them to supply. I told everyone who turned to me to send him to the offers, to the official e-mail, and he'll get an answer from there when they look at these offers. And so it was with many others, and therefore this condemnation and disqualification is rude, and Mr Gale, when asked if Matthew Tonin pressured him, said no. And if we asked him if I pressured him, I'd say no, because I didn't just send him to look at the offer and it's not pressure. And then what was going on with it, and I don't know, because I wasn't dealing with it, I wasn't calling anybody, asking nobody, as far as I know, eventually this company didn't get a job. Obviously, the offer did not match, and it was normal for those who were called to do so. Now, let's talk about what we're talking about today. So the previous government did not provide enough equipment or at all provide it. On February 27th, Mr Šarec said that the creation of stocks is totally inappropriate; doctors do not spread panic. He taught us here, but on February 27th, it wasn't so long ago and just 14 days before he declared the epidemic, creating supplies is totally inappropriate, doctors don't panic. That was his sentence, and that was at his press conference. That is why I also claim, on the basis of what we read in the report, that Mr Sarec was doing this on purpose and his coalition was at the time, or when he had already resigned on 27 January, that others should deal with it, even though by the time the new Government was appointed to do its work in a responsible and qualitative manner, it was not. And that's what's obvious to him, because I'm sure he's calculated and even though I don't believe that at the trenches he was looking at, they were driving from Bergamom, he didn't realize how serious this was. I don't believe it, so I'm saying that the purpose of the calculation was to let others deal with it, and we're not going to help. But he didn't have to help the Yang government, which then did it, he was supposed to help people. For that he was elected, and for that he received votes in the elections. First meeting of the Health Committee, colleague Trček likes to brag that he has called. That is not true. The first meeting was convened by us. On 18 February, a meeting of the Health Committee was urgently requested by the SDS. On the basis of that meeting, we actually requested the Ministry to report, and then 25th, he really called the meeting. So, on February 18th, what did we point out at that session, right? That it's too little to test. That's when we tested, if you remember, 20 people a day alone. And we have warned but there are enough tests – “know, enough, everything is fine”. Well, after having one week later of the 25th and 2nd March follow-up session, Mr Petrovec spoke on the morning of Good Morning to test too little that many people who are probably positive did not test them at all. Mrs. Nina Pirnat explained to us at the time that it was being tested enough. We've tested 200 people in the time of the Sharcha government since 24. 2. to 13. We tested 5,000 people together, that was an average of 266 a day, right? But Mr. Sarec spoke of mass testing. We tested many times after that date when we tested about 1,000 to 1200 people a day. We didn't even want to test those who showed signs, even though we can talk about what happened and what didn't happen. Mr Janša then requested that the National Security Council be convened. Mr. Sarec says on March 7th, "we'll call it in three days" on Monday, won't we? The Sharqsa government never worked on Saturdays and Sundays like the government of Janša. And like the first day she was elected, on Saturday she worked and determined that equipment should be purchased and so on. The Sharcha government did not think of this in order to meet on Saturday, even in such a critical one as the Coronavirus pandemic. Then, if you remember, we probably all forgot how ready they were. We were also told this on the Health Committee, but if you remember when the first patient with coronary disease arrived in Slovenia on 4 March from Morocco, he waited an hour for a personal physician at the Ljubljana Health Institute. We asked what would happen if they came to the doctor, so because it was then that they would come to the health care home. Then they changed in one week – “No, they must not go, they must call their doctor and then he will order”, right? And then I hear the same man went to the E.R. - because we were so well prepared and we had such very good instructions. The truth is different, there was no direction, and in fact people got upset about it. We also asked, this gentleman came from Morocco, we had 176 migrants from Morocco in January, and we wondered if we were dealing with these people, if someone was infected. The NIJZ ladies had no answer to that question. On March 5th, the day after the first infection, Mr Šarec, although doctors had already warned me, warned me at the meeting, said "games for false news, but these false news come from the political spheres of well-known". At that time, in Italy, baptisms were used, explaining what was going on, or how many were dead, and so on, and this was explained to us. On 27 February, Mr Šarec said "on the basis of an agreement with neighbouring countries, I find that the closure of the border would not stop the spread of the virus but would cripple the country". Now he's saying he's already closed the borders. This is the first we've heard of it. Then he said that what would be the problems for businesses, for the economy, if we closed our borders, and that day he also said that when it was time to close the borders, to activate civil protection, he said that it would be necessary to act responsibly, that it would not happen, that the side effects would then be greater than the threat of the virus. In doing so, he wrote down problems that would arise if people panicked to start raising savings from banks or buying supplies abnormally, which is what is already going on. Civil protection will be included if there are more patients. That's when the army, sanitation and others will be involved, but we're not there yet. That's why those who called for closure only spread panic. “ That’s what he said on February 27, 14 days before the outbreak was declared. So, before that, I said at the first meeting we had, the Health Committee, it was the first directive of the NIJS that all health homes would be an entry point for Covid. 25. said so, all health homes in Slovenia. Within a week, they've reduced this to just 16 Covid points. So, how were we prepared for this? We were very badly prepared, but no. No phone numbers were available at the time, which anyone could have responded to. Mrs Chebaškov from the Chamber also attended the meeting. We have also warned that doctors do not have instructions and that they do what they think is right because there were no or even bad instructions. The NIJS manual was that if someone doesn't cough, he's not sick, he has to go to work. And infections in the homes of elderly citizens Mr. colleague from Levi, the doctor had to go to work after skiing in Italy because he said so NIJZ and from the Metlik Medical House in the House of Older Metlik brought the infection. And even in some other homes, so don't show that number. Mr Male said: "The worst mistake of the former Sharča government was to recommend to doctors who were skiing in Italy and returning to Slovenia so that they could easily return to their jobs. Nor did they prohibit any visits to nursing homes.” Pretty strong recommendations, pretty lethal, too. And he said that if he hadn't acted on my own sanity and disobeyed the instructions of the former Sharcha government and closed most of the homes of older citizens because he didn't follow the government's recommendations and closed the door, we saved many lives. These are facts, not what Mr. Sarec says. And once again, the doctors, the chambers had already pointed out in February that there was a shortage of equipment and that there was no stock. We've also told the board on both occasions that there is no supply. We got a call from the doctors saying they didn't have any equipment. Then how are they supposed to take Covid patients? But that's what it said, because Mrs. Nina Pirnat from NIZ knows it best, but you don't know everyone else. Now there are a few other dates. March 9th, Aleš Šabeder: “General detention of kindergartens and schools is not yet necessary in the evaluation of the profession and the health council.” Remember March 11th, Šmarje near Jelšah. Mayor Matija Čakš orders the closing of the school and Jernej Pikalo the next day, March 12th, Thursday – colleague Šarec says that they have closed the school – says that the mayors have no legal basis for closing schools and have actually announced that schools will be closed after Monday, but smart parents have not already sent 12 and 13 children to school because if they did not probably have an outbreak after school. Just like we had in Shmar at Jelshah. And on March 12th, Mr. Sarec said on the last day of his term that they would declare an epidemic, but not because of the health of the population, but why? “We will declare an epidemic for easier organisation of work.” So now you see how much he wanted to do or protect the population. And on Friday, March 13th, the government swears. At the first meeting, Mr Janša says that the new government must start dealing with the urgent matter, the crown of the virus and the next day at the meeting at 8:00 p.m., as Mr Restoršek has already said, and then Zakrešek, Director of the Reserves, insist that they should start purchasing equipment. That replacement of equipment first released on 27 February was the conclusion to be supplemented, i.e. what they issued to replace it by the end of this year. That was Mr. Sharpe's instructions. Mr Zakrešek said that at least two meetings he had requested and urged that the matter should be obtained. To relax, then, introduce a condition so that they can do it quickly, obtain equipment, but it has been overheard twice. They said he was panicking and that he should stop, that he had nothing to say and talk about it, and then he waited for the instructions to be given when they were. Another tweet from Mr Male, on 16 March, when he replied to Mr Sharpe: "On your part, be sufficient, we will never forget how you acted and insulted, never. You make us work all day and night like crazy to at least soften your deadly actions. And the atheists among us began to pray for the next day." And you explain here that the Sharcha government has done everything necessary. Remember, Mr. Sarec was making fun of himself, he said if they were afraid of the virus, doctors. They said we're not afraid of him, but we need equipment so we can act. And I warned from Italy that the first people to get sick were health workers because they didn't have the equipment, and no one took it seriously. Another e-mail or tweet: “In the country of origin, the protective equipment is top theme.” This one speaks for Slovenia. “Just so much in knowledge, not everyone is as lucky as you in Slovenia. The story from Victoria Hospital in Scotland, throughout the week the medical staff had no protective equipment, no surgical masks, no other. Not enough tests. Only recently, in May, were the personnel from the departments tested, which were not primarily designed for COVID-19. The person from whom the information came claimed that out of 30 nurses in the general ward at the general hospital, 26 were coronary, but only one section of one general hospital. According to current data, Britain has the most immediately infected in the United States, and this does not include deaths per home for the elderly. Crisis situations are not called a free crisis situation. When there is a shortage, there is a shortage everywhere, including in protective equipment. Thank God for the people who gave it to you in time. We would not want to be in statistics of infected or fatalities as is the case in Britain.” Now, for the record, you were talking about the SAZU offer. SAZU replied to the questions of democracy that Mr Drago Babič is not a member of the SAZU and performed on RTV Slovenia on his own behalf, without the knowledge of the leadership of the SAZU. Grandmother is an external member of the SAZU Development Council. On 23 March, the SAZU Development Council acquired supplies, well, an offer from Nanjing People's Republic of China, while Mr Babič explained the offer at least on 18 March and so on. The ones you told us why we didn't get them in China. See, Chinese companies requested advances, so it has already been said that we went to a safer place then through domestic companies, which also guaranteed it. I don't know if you remember, the plane from Great Britain flew to China by the goods they paid and ordered and returned home empty, and there were not many of these cases, so all of these supplies in China were quite insecure. Although they wanted attractors at some low price, look at other countries where they did not get the goods. Not in a lot of places. You have news on the newspapers. Or they got equipment that didn't match what they ordered. Remember also one shipment of Mr Pecčečnik when masks were different from those ordered. He wanted to claim it as a complaint, but since we also needed these masks, they were bought at a lower price and we also used those masks. But before he brought these masks back to China, he traded them for the real ones, and that would probably be a month or more. In short, the report brings the information you wanted, about which you asked about, about which you asked on TV, on KNJF, we had all the meetings of the boards of opinion, health care and everything on the subject of masks, and No On all committees, at the National Assembly and so on, all the answers are in this report. [[…]] The government has prepared it, prepared it inside with all the information we need. The Treaties are published publicly on the Ministry's website and I don't know what the problem is. That someone who's spent 100,000 euros on a school that isn't here today is telling us this, but it's the least ridiculous. So, I'm assessing that Sharcha's government's conduct before, so either after the resignation or before the new government came forward was destructively harmful. You also set a bad example of what is being done all the time, as criminals, we call companies that are very successful and work in global markets. Who else is going to help us, who wants to do something if we lynch him and we're all criminals and so on. I will, of course, support the proposal that we made in the coalition to conclude this topic. But all those who are called for it, the law enforcement agencies, will do their part. And one left can't say who the criminal is and so on and who committed the crime, but those authorities in this country will find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Predrag Baković has the following word, and Mrs Mojca Žnidarič is preparing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u106	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. It is very interesting to listen to the debates, and I note that, on the one hand, we are representatives of the opposition, who have read the reports, and on the other hand, and then we comment, asking questions both on various commissions, committees and today. On the other hand, we have coalition representatives who actually play the role of government. I see that the government is quite quiet, does not respond to this matter, and that is what the coalition is doing, and in fact the report is defending it, but should be defended by the government because the government wrote it if I understand this matter too. But I also understand that the coalition is, of course, placed in this position to protect the government and that it is trying to defend what we will somehow challenge. Report, I read it. Just a report, I've read Mr Gallet's responses, and I've read something else. I have somehow assessed that this report focuses on two parts, the duration of the government of Marjan Šarc and the period following the takeover of the government by Mr Janez Janša and the team. And in all of this, I actually see that it is and it seems interesting to me that the evidence in this report refers either to the government in general or specifically to Marjana Sharca personally. However, it does not mention names, such as those run by the Ministry of Economy in the previous government, for defence, and I understand that in a way. I understand why that is. However, I find it extremely interesting that nothing is really evident to the former Minister of Health, Mr Šabedr. When you read this report, you get the feeling that in some way he's even apologizing for trying something, but the Prime Minister didn't want to do it. And that seems strange to me. Why? Because if we remember at the time when we were in the coalition and you were in the opposition, how ruthlessly you beat the Minister of Health, you were asking questions like this and different. At this point, leave him alone somehow. That's interesting to me. He will also find it interesting to know why. I'm sure that'll tell time. The report was written in this direction, too, before the new government took over the exercise. And this is somehow, at least I understand, this is described for reasons of trying to justify later some of the irregularities of the current government, both with regard to those missing trucks, those masks from the serviettes and rubbers, and so on and then inadequate or worse appropriate dispensers, abnormal prices and everything else we've been monitoring in these past days. And of course this report happened precisely because of this in order to somehow explain these things. The essential findings that I have somehow noted in this report are the findings of the previous government, namely that they have received, that the previous government has left empty warehouses, and that it has not taken any measures to avoid the consequences that we have today, although I must say that we have carried it away with, I will say, quite a good skin. And of course, it is also obvious that the government should define protective equipment as basic supplies and immediately initiate procedures for its procurement, but has done nothing in this direction. Of course, we, of course, listened by the opposition today, but we also listened to the evidence of what was evident to this government. And I don't want to repeat myself, but I really do have a problem here with more things. I would point out exactly one, namely why and, in fact, what led the government to introduce central procurement through the Department of Freight Reserves. Now, if we look at which authorities of individual Member States of the European Union have participated in the European Commission's procurements, we can find that the Ministry of Health has mostly participated, and in Slovenia, of course, a institution called the Department of Commerce, without adequate experience, without expertise and only as Mr Gale wrote, about 10 people who do not know any language, say Chinese, without a diplomatic network and so on. And, of course, the government admits it itself, as it did before. Tonin also, in his statement, said. Now, he also said in his reply that, what should we do if they didn't have another one. Now, Mr Gale has presented an opportunity to see the Public Procurement Directorate operating within the Ministry of Public Administration, which is set up to carry out the general public procurement of the Government and the general public procurement of powers. These, however, have expertise in such procurement procedures and also, of course, human resources. However, the government has entrusted these tasks to the Department of Commerce, Reserves, and, despite the fact that there have been a lot of people in the ministries who have been working from home who have been waiting and so on, and in fact could also be in this area because they have knowledge, of course they are good, they could have taken over and taken over the matter. Of course, there is more evidence here, too, that the Government, the current Government, did not appoint a representative of the Ministry of Health, the Management Board of the Department of Commodity and, last but not least, in order to verify the quality of this equipment, therefore, the representatives of the Public Agency for Medicinal Products and Medical Devices were not invited to the Inter-Resort Working Group, nor were they used to verify the quality of the procurement of equipment. Now, with regard to the government's report itself and the conclusions that have been proposed in this regard, reports on the acquisition of medical equipment, I will say the following, because now, since the beginning of this mandate, you have been colleagues in the SDS, all the time you have been in opposition, you have been reading to us several times and actually have been making fun of that the government has been writing us some amendments, right? [[…]] Now we have come to the situation that, somehow, you in the coalition, in the government and you, the government, and not just you, including us, write mandatory conclusions that we should somehow make or decide about them. Is that okay? So it seems to me that this is a slightly worse story than maybe the government has ever written us some amendments. Last but not least, it was earlier in the debate, by the Government, but also, I think the President of the Government himself said that they had warned from the European Union that some of the masks were inadequate and that, of course, the market was, in a way, confused. Do you know whether the rubbers that were so vividly described by Comrade Marko Bandelli were appropriate? So I wouldn't be over-emphasizing how it is or how it happened. Now, you also say that the opposition is critical, too, and guilty that in some extraordinary circumstances, which of course existed, it is not right. Look, I can't imagine what would happen if it were the other way around. I believe that if you were in the role, ours, the current government would not only break down, leave, I think you should commit suicide, all together, in a group way, not because the situation is really controversial and requires all the attention of the opposition to warn and, of course, when critical and I hope that you understand the role of the opposition, that they also do so, and that it is not a matter of any interference, but it is a matter of establishing the necessary control and determining whether it has been an anomaly, whether it has been a crime committed by a colleague of Grims, and of course it is also "processed" and punished. [[Incomprehensible]] You're also smothering the media that are actually lasin media, kind of left-wing media, doing what they do to mutilate the government right now and so on. I have to say that I don't actually separate the media from the left and right, we can separate them from the independent, impartial and right and the others who aren't. And you know the difference between these so-called left and right media. When the former or former Government was in power that was not right, of course, they were hit by all the media, rightly, perhaps sometimes not, but both left and right. Now that the second option to the right has come into power, these lions are still pounding like you say to the left, the right ones are silent. I did not hear at the time of the previous government led by John Janša, nor during these two months, when he is leading her now, that some Nova24TV, Democracy or anyone in any segment would just say, but perhaps here the President of the Government did not do the right thing. That's not gonna happen. And there's the difference between left and right media, and one of them's got it, and one of them's biting and investigating. And it is not right for those who are biting and investigating to continue creating pressure to tweet, that, I will say to the young, also to the threats and colleagues, I would not discuss left and right media in this place, but only those who are independent and impartial and correctly written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Before receiving the floor, Mrs Mojca Žnidarič asked for the floor of the Secretary of State, Mr Damian Jaklin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. Mr Member, you have probably overlooked Annex 37 due to the scope of the material, where you have been given exactly the membership of the Interdepartmental Working Group, which has reviewed one part of the documentation. And here you can see that they participated in it alongside the USSR, including the Ministry of the Interior, for foreign affairs, as well as the Ministry of Health, such an economic, Slovenian Intelligence Agency, the Legal Service of the Ministry of Defence and representatives of the trade reserves. And it was the health representatives, both the representatives of the group under the leadership of Mr Chandr, as well as the representatives of the UKC and other institutions which were responsible for reviewing the certificates of certain safeguards for which they were specialised, that were reviewed and no one else, the health representatives. In the framework of the Inter-ministerial, we also held several meetings with representatives of the agencies, which you yourself mentioned, but which said that because of the conflict of interest they could not participate in the examination of the certificates alone, they would be happy to participate subsequently in any complaints. Why they didn't want to cooperate, I suggest you turn to them with questions, because we have asked them on a number of occasions to cooperate. So that's the part. The information provided is also wrongly linked to the European public procurement, where the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia is solely a contractual party to the supply reserves. The content of the contract was also coordinated by the Ministry of Health with the participation of all other departments and, last but not least, the trade reserves had only signed this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Ms Mojca Žnidarič gets the text and Mrs Iva Dimic is ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. So the acquisition of protective equipment in Slovenia was until the outbreak was declared within the competence of various institutions, from hospitals to other health institutions. The central acquisition of protective equipment through the Department of Freight Reserves was introduced by a decision of the current Government on 14 March. It's the next day after this government's performance. Whether the first day, the first working day, that is to say, was chosen by the most competent, appropriate institution or not, is not the most important today. But these acquisitions in the previous Government did not belong to Minister Restovalska. For some empty warehouses are ascribed to him. As I said earlier, these procurements were carried out by health care. The procurement of protective equipment was carried out in accordance with Article 46 of the Public Procurement Act, a negotiated procedure without prior publication due to the emergency situation at home and in the world due to the market failure of protective equipment, unforeseeable logistics links. What these negotiations could have been like when global demand was much greater than the supply, we can imagine ourselves. And prices in normal situations cannot be compared to prices in emergency situations. At that time, the main objective of this government was to provide equipment for those who urgently need it as soon as possible, and this has been done by means of a self-sacrifice, including donations and a rapid response from many domestic producers. And here we can and must commend the outstanding engagement and commitment of all stakeholders who have helped to do so. Most of them worked sixteen hours a day or even more, so it is no wonder that they occasionally had short contacts. Why the Department of Trade Reserves has entered into contracts only with domestic, Slovenian suppliers, has been explained many times. I would like to point out that there is no way that we can talk about privileged suppliers, because those who could even deliver equipment to Slovenia were looking for it as soon as possible. The delivery deadline had an advantage over the price. When it comes to life, time is more important than money. And as the Prime Minister wrote, everything was bought as soon as possible and at least in line with the basic standards. I do not know an EU country that would do otherwise. The deadline and reliability of supply were factor one. Minister Tonin also made it clear several times that everyone called someone he knew who could help. That's human, but it's not. Also a highly recognized and respected doctor, Dr. Metka Zorc, told us in one of the shows what it was like at a doctor’s meeting in Cankar’s home. First weekend of this government. She also called Melanie Trump's father in America if she could help us. All those who care about our people called and helped. But today it's not about masks, it's not about fans, it's not about health, it's about one political option that's not in power, it's about destroying another political option. It's a prestigious political struggle. These are the words of Dr. Kuštrin's doctor, whom I fully agree with. And to say one more thing about fans. I'll read you a public message, Celje Hospital. Our experts estimate that fans, i.e. supplied fans, are safe and easy to handle. The fans were already equipped with a compressor at the time of takeover and thus allow ventilation even where there is no compressed air, so they are especially suitable for epidemics and mass accidents, as they can also vent patients in places where the compressed air connections are not available, i.e. temporary or emergency hospitals. They are suitable for COVID and not COVID patients, as they force air30 and all other fans at Celje General Hospital, regardless of whether or not we treat COVID patients, we use a universal tube system with appropriate filters. These have been tested to prevent the passage of bacteria and viruses. Thus, taken-over Siriusmed R30 fans have already been equipped with compressors, and every 24 hours on them we change filters and every 7 days tubes we buy via a public invitation to tender and are identical to the systems on all fans we already use in the hospital. The General Hospital Celje, therefore, did not purchase or need to purchase any additional equipment that would otherwise not be used, i.e. pipes and filters. And the price of these pipes and filters is on their 15 euro public order. So much for all those who talk all the time about some very necessary upgrades to these supplied fans. And in Celje Hospital this opinion was not published by someone, as previously said, by Prof. Dr. Podbregar, one of the two regular professors of intensive internal medicine in Slovenia, the other by Prof. Dr. Night. And this Mr Podbregar also has a European licence from internal medicine. Experts examined over 90 different fans and 13 of them were considered suitable. And the SeriousMed Air30, which is the most controversial and untruthful, were on 13. A city, so 13 out of 90. And they were the only ones who were available at the time, and everyone else had a longer or uncertain delivery deadline. Isn't it better that we get solid fans than none? Did anyone know how fast and how big the epidemic would be with us? Fortunately for us, Dr. Trumpus from abroad also made a mistake, predicting that in mid-April we would reach a critical limit and need about 400 respirators. Well, we have not only been fortunate, but above all, the appropriate measures taken by this government and, of course, the high level of respect for the actions taken by our citizens. And now some of you deny to this government that they didn't get the best fans. And this company Geneplanet sold over 300 such fans to France, 250 to the UK and also to other countries. Are they good for them and not good for us? Think about it. Despite exceptional circumstances, the current government has provided protective equipment in a timely manner - in a shorter time than many other comparable countries - to prevent the drastic consequences of the epidemic. What kind of question did Member Bandelli ask before? 200 doctors died in Italy. Do you imagine that health care would be lost to healthcare professionals in Slovenia because they would not be provided with adequate protective equipment? Therefore, it is not fair and it is not constructive to create a criminal continuation with a political omen from the important part of preventing the coronary epidemic in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The next word is Mrs Iva Dimic, and the mag is being prepared. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'll start there, just like my forerunner finished. Indeed, what is the purpose after the situation calms down, when it can be easier to live, when the giving up or returning to normal life begins and everything rises up to what was wrong. However, I have to return to the government of Marjana Sarca on February 25th 2020 when we at the Committee on Health are very much referred to the topic of the COVID pandemic, what and how Slovenia is ready for a possible pandemic, then it was said that Italy is already in severe distress, that they already have closed areas in some way and that they are checking passengers entering certain places in Lombardia itself. At that time, we also had an Italian ambassador sitting, who said it was bad. Although he denied that they had closed places, our media reported it. And then I asked the representatives of the Ministry of Health in the Sharchev government exactly on 25 February what is the pandemic plan in Slovenia. The then Secretary of State replied that we had a plan, that it was not perfect and that it would be modified and completed at some point in time. Why did I ask that? Because everything has already been said that we will arrive at a period of pandemics, epidemics, and that the state plan must be prepared for this. This national plan should specify exactly how the pandemic is being declared in the homes of the elderly. How the plans go, the protocols in kindergartens, in schools, that's not what happened. The secretary of state said they'd make it up to you. And it was quite a time between February 25th and February 13th, when the new government took place, for quite some time. On 11 March, a pandemic was declared by the World Health Organization, and on 12 March, an epidemic was declared with us, which was further proclaimed by Prime Minister Marjan Sarec. It is said that nothing has been done on the pandemic plan at this time from 25 February to 12 March. And so we fell into a severe pandemic, an epidemic, and we ran into problems that you now want to point out what was wrong. And the state, the government, which had the power and duty to do so, so that I wouldn't tell the victims in their homes for the elderly, so that they wouldn't be sick in their schools, would do nothing. She stepped down. I find it extremely inappropriate to tell you what was wrong. [[…]] Anyone who is and who feels some solidarity and some responsibility towards all citizens should call for supplies and help in his own way. Anyone who says today that there was no epidemic, that all this was a fabrication should be in the front lines where they would help in nursing homes, but that was not the case. Everyone should admit that the value of saving human life is the most precious and priceless. And we've been in these situations. Data can be said, of course, when we can go to our home and when we can be without masks, but these were different times and everything you say, man can only grieve.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare Monica Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. The government makes clear through this that we accuse them that we are critical that we demand the impossible, but the respected Government, in true democracy, we have the right of people to know and to demand explanations. That is why we have Members and Members to find out everything we are interested in. The questions also require answers and we did not receive these answers at two meetings, as the decision adopted yesterday at the KNJF 21 points proves. This report that we have today does not provide all the answers, as it proves. The report is from the taste of the government. What they wanted to write down was written down. But it's been preparing for two weeks. Here's the question. Otherwise, I would agree that it was because of the form, but in the media we've noticed that someone from the government's representatives is saying that the report needs to be cleared. Here's the question. It is also worrying that the report compares prices to 13. Government, Sharchev governments, VAT prices, 14. You state the purchase prices without VAT. At the same time, you forget or do not specify whether or not it is prices that contain transport. Otherwise, Minister Tonin said today that it was a technical mistake. On a two-week review of this report, I am asked why. There was also a lot of talk about buying fans, saving lives with them, but today we don't know how many fans there were before the outbreak. It shall also specify the protocol to be drawn up. Well, everything goes well here, but the anti-corruption risk protocol has not been developed and the government should take care of a system that would mitigate these risks. However, if the government has not taken care of this system to mitigate the risks, it has abandoned due diligence, resulting in damage. It's either the thieves or those who didn't lock their doors that's asking me a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Monika Gregorčič. Get Mr. Marijan Pojbič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u116	Thank you for your word, Vice President. I will start with some personal expression of disappointment that arguments and evidence do not count as anything in this House. In fact, as a mantra, the opposition MPs repeat the accusations, I must say here I emphasize false accusations, unproven allegations of some places, frauds, and I will say that today's meeting may still be in a slightly more cultural spirit. The last two sessions of the Commission for the Control of Public Finance on the same subject and there have been indeed insulting accusations and it should be pointed out that the constitutional provision of Article 27 on the presumption of innocence still applies and I would like to say that in this Chamber, democracy does not repeat the accusations of places, frauds and I do not know what personal exploits to the acquisition of protective equipment, because the presumption of innocence says: "Whosoever is accused of a crime is innocent until his guilt has been established by a judicial judgment." Now, it is in the courts, the judiciary is one of the three branches of power, and we are representatives of the legislative branch of power and this distinction, this is one, I will say, falls under the basic education of every Member, and whoever does not have these terms cleared, I suggest that he go back to primary school or resume a course. The current political situation is such that it is now evident that stories with the acquisition of protective medical equipment are clearly being misused for political struggle. There is no longer any kind of well-intentioned clearance in the interest of the opposition, because by the representatives of the government everything has been explained, I think, and if you could also read this carefully and examine today's report before us, which we are now dealing with, I think that anyone who wants to read it on purpose can get the answers to all the questions. Of course, it is clear here that there is a political struggle at the back, a struggle to regain power, because it is obvious that the withdrawal syndrome from power for the current opposition is extremely painful. That is why all extremely inappropriate and unworthy maneuvers are used, unfortunately, in the media killings. It is absolutely nothing sacred to you and it is sacred to you under the conditions of the epidemic, when, as this nation, citizens expect us to step together and forget about some prestigious political struggles and that this government, too, after all, as has been said, has that hygiene minimum, 100 days of peace, because Ali has not had them, but no, so unfortunately I note that this political struggle does not understand that ideas about the technical government, the project government, are emerging and that it is still attacking the SMC Members in particular. [[…]] That, I don't know, we betrayed our constituents. Now I'm going to say extremely moving is your concern for our constituents. We'll answer to our constituents ourselves. It may hurt you, however, that we have always been a reformed and firm member of the coalition in the previous coalition, and we are continuing this stance now, especially because we are aware of the difficult situation our country is facing in the light of the current circumstances. And also the decision to join this government has been considered, socially responsible, because we estimate that after almost three decades of creating some artificial visual division to the left and right, the time to cut it. Indeed, Slovenia deserves more than the anti Janša program. We deserve progress, prosperity, development, perspective. I regret this look forward, but the previous Prime Minister did not have it. It is obvious that we suddenly became or were forced to become all specialists or experts in protective equipment, for such and different types of masks, fans, and that this is what makes a political story. I hope that today it has already been precisely established that Minister Restorationšek, who was also Minister of Economy in the previous government, was never responsible for the purchase of protective medical equipment. In fact, this is what he keeps on saying to him that he was already a minister in the previous government. Never in the previous government is responsible for the purchase of protective equipment. The former Prime Minister also said in his position today that this procurement of protective equipment was decentralised, that procurement was carried out by individual public health institutions and only when the situation was really critical, is 27 just before the epidemic was declared. 2. A decision has been taken to draw on the provisions of the trade reserve and, by virtue of its function, to be subject to the responsibility of the Ministry of the Economy, but only this, to draw upon or distribute to the public health institution that minimum prescribed protective equipment. And it has been imposed on MGRT to fill these stocks by the end of 2020. You know what this means, I would like to stress the value of this distributed equipment and the task of filling the stocks was around €160,000. Then you can probably imagine how long these protective masks were, and the protective equipment was basically enough. Probably not for two days. Well, 27. 2. As it is said, this Decision has been adopted. However, because it was found that, of course, the drastic deficit continued to be 11. 3. Ministry of Health responsible for central procurement of medical equipment. And then I think some orders have been made or ordered, but I don't know if they came from supplies in those two days until the new government. So please, absolutely not in place are those indications that the Minister of Economy was also responsible for the acquisition of protective equipment in the previous government. Here I will read the Law on State Administration, Article 30: The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology performs tasks in the fields of economic system and development, the internal market, technical legislation and criteria, consumer protection, competition protection, economic relations with abroad, the development of the business sector and competitiveness and social entrepreneurship, intellectual property, small economy and tourism, industrial facilities, burial and funeral activities, regional development tasks and tasks in the field of technology, metrology and mail." Protective equipment is not listed here, and I ask you once and for all to stop these findings. It is true, however, that the previous Prime Minister, when the epidemic was approaching or when the situation “has escalated”, should somehow “see” what is threatening us and reacting appropriately, but unfortunately, we had a prime minister who was not skilled at strategic thinking, let alone crisis management. I'm sorry, it's not some nuclear science that can be learned, but it's true that they don't teach this at the gaming academy and at the middle forestry school. The fact is, after the battle, every general can be, but a deserter can't judge that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u117	Thank you, colleague for this discussion. Mr. Prednik has the procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u118	Yeah, next time I'm calling in for procedural today. This execution of a colleague from the SMC has been a real pain in the ass. In one part, she apologized why Janez Janša, then in the end, profaned the former Prime Minister of the government in a very divided way. [[Incomprehensible]] I would tell her here that her client was involved in this government, she had no idea that she was leaving this government, so she said, she supported everything that the previous government was doing. Her client president, Zdravko Restoršek, was also in the previous Government and I would only suggest that they stop pretending and stop looking for some, I will say, let excuses before I don't know why they're doing something, I don't know, but maybe they're afraid that something was actually going wrong, so, I just suggest we focus again on the report and stop howling or stop turning your colleagues from SMC into some cellophan and divert attention to others, focus on the report and let's talk about it, well, only an hour and a half more.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u119	Thank you, Comrade Prednik. I agree with you, too. In the implementation of colleague Gregorčič, there was little debate on the report, so I would like to point out once again the 75th Rule of the Rules of Procedure, which speaks of the fact that the Member of Parliament is on the agenda, so that I allow for a broader debate, but if the Member does not mention once in practice the report that we are considering today, it is difficult to understand that it is difficult to discuss the topic on the agenda. Colleague Gregorčič, did you want to proceed with the procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u120	Yeah, it's procedural. I estimate that colleague Prednik misused his procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u121	And your motion of procedure is?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u122	To warn him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u123	Um, the point that someone misused the procedural proposal is not a procedural proposal, but also, in my opinion, my colleague Prednik did not abuse the procedural proposal, because he warned precisely this article, article 75, which speaks of discussing the topic on the agenda and I agree with it and that is why I also gave my warning to all the debaters who will debate today. Mr Marijan Pojbič will discuss the following and Mrs Natasa Sukić will be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u124	Madam Vice-President, thank you very much for your words. I must say that, after all I have heard here today, I am very disappointed, especially because of the hundreds of lies that have no place in the National Assembly and no legal basis, no evidence. And look, there's only one thing or two I'm going to show you what happened today, after the Prime Minister here presented and spoke about the report. Look at this. Look at this. Patience, look at that, patience. Radio student. Death of Janshism. Look at this, this has happened today, after the President of the Government finished his address in the National Assembly. But that's not all. Look at what they've done today. Look at that. He didn't even get home, and he's got it in his yard. They also did this to France Kepi, our fellow Member. Look, and now you're talking about tolerance. You're talking about tolerance. Look at the color with which this is written. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Shameful, look, you don't need a kimat. You don't need a kimat. Believe me, this has exceeded all the limits of good taste. [[…]] Where we came from in this country. And, dear colleagues, I have no problem telling each other what I think, no problem with that. But I have to say after all that I have just done lately, I apologize for this mask, I listen to "it's not my fault, it's not your fault, it's your fault" because it's someone's decision whether it's the uncles in the background, or whether it's the structures that control the cash flow in this country, this society of ours. I think it's an unacceptable, unacceptable and extremely perverse act. And, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in the National Assembly for quite some time today, so I would like to say in the National Assembly. I also listened to Mr Marjan Sarc's debate in the meantime, and I have to respond to that. He repeated at least ten times that Prime Minister Janez Janša came to cry in the National Assembly. This is unacceptable, unacceptable, and abuse of the National Assembly. Do you know what the problem is? Do you know what the problem is? Who's crying? And this is Mr. Marjan Sarec, because he was pushed into his mouth by an excessive lollipop, which no one had taken from him, fell out of his mouth and he was crying. He's crying. Imagine all the moms, the ones you're sitting in here, in case the kid gets a lollipop out of his mouth, what the consequences are. And today it is a truly difficult situation for the former Prime Minister, Mr Marjan Šarc, who simply cannot bear not crying, not knowing after so long that his lollipop, which he had in his mouth, was too big, fell out of his mouth. And that's crying. And then I ask that such people, says the Prime Minister, so the former governments allow themselves to talk about crying in the National Assembly and attacking people, the Prime Minister, then the ministers today, the two who were here, Matthew Tonin, Mr Zdravko Počvalska. With these lies, with everything you need to listen to here, it's extremely inappropriate. Especially because they are a group or a team, this government, when it took responsibility for this country when it was the most difficult. And who do you think squeezed his tail between his legs? Marjan Sarec. Perhaps even LMSH Members are not guilty by a large majority, even perhaps in any other party you are not guilty of throwing a rifle into the corn because it was not a piece. And here's the connection to the lollipop. He wasn't into the situation, he didn't have the balls to take the case first. The easiest thing to do is to throw a gun into the corn and then back off and then be smart and talk about someone coming to the National Assembly crying. This is an extremely perverse, extremely inappropriate and very ugly and unacceptable act. And, dear colleagues, from day to day in the National Assembly, I listen to lies, lies, lies to lies. And if anyone has listened to Micah Kordish today, I hope that a criminal charge against him has finally been filed, because it is unacceptable what this man is allowing himself. An extreme leftist extremist to the extreme limit. This goes beyond all the limits of good taste. This is no one in this society, and this country cannot and must not be allowed, especially not because it should defend the interests of the majority or all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. No matter what environment you're in, when you're an MP, you have to work for people. You have to work for people, including those you don't like most because this is the key function of a Member. But this is the extreme abuse of extreme left-wing, I'm going to say ideology, brain or I don't know, I just can't explain, because it went too far, it really went too far. And no one in our National Assembly can afford that. And I am sure that citizens and citizens will still be able to assess this properly. And this government proved by working after 18, 19 hours, and I don't know how much every day, week, holiday, all the time that their approach was right that the measures were right. Thank God that most citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia understood the problem situation and cooperated with these measures and had no problems. However, I cannot agree to be, of course, indifferent from what those who went to protests at the time of the epidemic did. And look, there's a protest in here at the time of the epidemic. And look in here I have a picture where even in this picture there is a member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia from the party SD. You can think at the time of the epidemic, which should be an example to people, because here we adopt laws to protect the health of our citizens and citizens and he allowed himself to go abuse the position and cycling and get people to demonstrate during the epidemic. What kind of parliament we are here, what political parties live in, are working in this Parliament. And that is so and that these protests were set up to be purposefully called people, set up by Facebook structures, saw who was the one who called, I will prove to you by one record, Jovanka Bekić. You know what she wrote – quote, listen to me: “If we raised the socialists, there would be more of us, more people would have time to protest. And that's how the SDS wants to lower the socialists and the people will be forced to work. We can't let that happen! Get down with the bastard SDS!« Can you imagine the structure of those who protested and, among them, a member of the National Assembly? But it's not over. Then we have another very interesting story here. One of the moms, if you can even say it's Mommy, I think it's impossible that it's an extremely inappropriate act to abuse your kids for political purposes, wrote the following, quote: "We have to have as many children as possible with us, the kids are our shield. You're not gonna get your hopes up over the kids, are you? I've got one in the stretcher, one on the bike. This is it." End of quote. My dear citizens, my fellow Members and citizens, please, we must think about this. We need to think about what I said here today. And it is extremely, extremely inappropriate for someone to abuse children to achieve political interests. And look, I've got some more photos here that I think are right, look what extremists left-handed do in our society. Remember that from I don't know how long ago. Look at this next picture, the photo, look who these people are. And you can't get past that photo. Member of the National Assembly, look, this is a public photo on Facebook, which, see, these are Members of the National Assembly representing the interests of our citizens and citizens. I'm asking you nicely. Where do we live? Then look at this picture, you've probably seen it many times, the tolerance of the media, the fairness of the media, and I won't say anything else. For example, look at this picture. And I don't think I need to show these pictures anymore, so it's all about what kind of society we are, what kind of society we live in, and who's the one who's breaking this country, its unity, and trying to remove the government that works for the majority, or I'm going to tell people who work for everyone, regardless of who's in which political option, the party. All the measures that have been taken on this Government have not been written anywhere, either by someone in the SD or by someone in the SDS or by someone in Novi Slovenije or by someone in the Levica and so on. Ask the people who have been waiting for these measures, this government has taken them. And this government had the eggs and all the honors of the NSI, SMC, DeSUS and, of course, SDS, which runs this coalition. Well done to the Prime Minister Janez Janša, all honors to Matthew Tonin, all honor to Mrs. Pivec and all honor to my friend Restoration. And that's what we need right now. We need to stick together because we are in a situation where it is still important for each individual, because only in this way can we overcome the crises and seek some new solutions, some new ways that will of course be important to make sure that most Slovenes and Slovenes in this country love to live, but not to separate, break up, that certain media are being used to attack the government from day to day, working practically night and day, Saturdays, weeks and holidays. And this is the only country, not just in Europe, I think in the world, and that's where the nun needs to end. Therefore, dear Members, it does not matter who comes from any political option, let us finally cut this once and let us work for the people. Let's support the government if it's doing well. If you don't do well, okay, but this government is doing well, proven. Instigation, lying, seductions, which you use to break this government, once attack SMC, then attack Desus, then attack New Slovenia and then attack SDS, only to prevent the setting of rules in this country from which they will have the most citizens and citizens. This must be our mission, this must be our goal and we must work for it, for which we have been elected in the last elections, regardless of political affiliation, please, let us stop this overreaction and abuse the crisis for political interests, and this is an extremely perverted act. To collect the political points of the Left, SD, LMŠ, especially the former Prime Minister of the Government, who spoke here today, he cried when he cried when he fell out of his mouth, and look, he was not able to keep himself because it was too much for him. [[Incomprehensible]] Who did this to him? Members and Members, as I said before, LMŠ, SD, etc., you did not even know that he was so incompetent if I could say so, but he himself found out, but he was well hidden in the nests, but now he comes from behind trying to wise up those who are this country and this situation and the burden that he should carry, save and save for the benefit of citizens and citizens. Thank God, once again, for the hat down to all the coalition parties and all four presidents, that we can be wise, that it is a matter for us to be a nation, that we are going for people and our future together, and that, on this path, I hope that this government will lead this country to regular elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman. I'll just start with a quote: “A healthy farmer’s mind does not waste time when it comes to key decisions that need to be made immediately in order for the farms to survive. However, our highly corrupt criminals are doing their best to delay taking the necessary measures to help people and the economy. It is truly amazing what people, their health, the possibilities of survival under extremely difficult circumstances are allowed by the privileged left-wing extremely corrupt elite. Only removal from public life, taking away all the unproven assets and forced labour in prison for life, can prevent the further malice and corruption of these criminals.” So wrote our Member Marian Pojbič two months before some kind of good, bad two months ago on his Twitter, a man who here today shows us hate speech, cruelty and that sort of thing. So, dear colleague Pojbič, when you are first sweeping before your threshold, start sweeping before our threshold. Now, as far as the report is concerned, today's subject matter. This conclusion that we have before us should not be at all. That's what we've been talking about for hours and hours. The matter has been brought about in a very controversial way on the parliamentary bench, and yet we are discussing the so-called report. Okay. Here's the report. But you have to ask yourself what's missing in this report. Not just what's written here. Of course it's written in such a way that it's in your best interest. Now we're wondering what's not written. For example, I have not heard a convincing answer so far why the neighbouring Croatia could supply 60 tonnes of protective equipment for 5.5 million euros, including logistics, while we, for a third of this, say, paid 5.5 million euros for transportation alone to Joc Pečečnik. To a baker who claims that he did not earn a cent, he boasts among his friends that he has earned €13 million and this is a public secret. Did I get that answer in this report? I didn't. You're surprised we don't believe a story just by wanting it to be investigated independently, but you've made sure that you're investigating yourself. So, is this credible? I don't think so. And answer me one more question. Why did you present three different versions of the arguments to the public, so why did you choose to purchase protective equipment through intermediaries and not through an interstate agreement? At first, you lied that it couldn't be done, that it couldn't be done by law, which is not true at all. There's no such thing as a marriage. This is a confirmation and a warning from the Court of Auditors. When the public discovered this and found out, you quickly changed the story. [[turn off microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Time's up. You were put on the list of discussers too late. The word has magic. Dejan Kaloh, after which he will receive the word Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u128	President, thank you so much for your word. Now, to get to the point. In fact, in this first wave of the epidemic, the government of Janez Janša was able to protect our citizens. Slovenia was ranked by all parameters among countries where there were very few deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. The Italian script did not happen because of the efficiency of this government. What, though, was she doing or not doing by the previous government of Marjan Šarc? We have already heard something, but the variation on the subject also speaks of the outbreak being declared only eight days after the first official case of infection, 12. 3. On the other hand, Italy has declared 31 states of emergency. 1. 2020. It is more than too much maneuverable space, which, of course, the government of Marjan Šarc did not know, wanted to take advantage of the epidemic, of course, in Slovenia so much earlier. Now another example from neighbouring Austria. The outbreak was declared there within four days of the first infection. I don't know, probably today, Marjan Sarec did not explain why his government took so long to declare the epidemic, that warehouses, as we have heard many times today, were completely empty. Now, what only the report tells us, just a government report. As a lawyer, I need to find out that, of course, it was in accordance with the legislation, in full. There was a critical period at the beginning of the 13th. 3. and this situation, of course, required efficiency and responsiveness, which the Government has taken care of. All contracts were also made public, everything was transparent, in fact nothing was hidden. As far as additional activities are concerned, this transparency should in fact manifest itself to the greatest extent possible. The Court of Auditors was invited by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to carry out an additional audit. Also, the commission of inquiry on the procurement of protective equipment called upon the opposition, of course, who did not know what it had been doing for three weeks. She's probably been looking for other commissions that weren't-- not in this business, not in Patricia's old days. They're always looking for commissions, and I wonder why they're so obsessed with these commissions. Now, if we remember what Mrs Urska Bašovnik Janša said in one of the tweets that the commission is sought by those who are obviously accustomed to it. And I think it's that pain that bothers the opposition that they're always looking for a commission because they're just used to some of their previous jobs. So talkative enough and at the same time sad enough. Now I'd like to touch these Sirius M30 fans briefly. Look, they met all the standards, all the standards. This is essential and despite the fact that they were not placed at the very top of this quality scale, the Minister of Economics really gave there one such picturesque comparison: “Yes, we bought Golfes, which at that time were profitable within a silent normal period, and the Mercedes God knows when they would be available if they were.” And look, if I stay here in this illustrative comparison, the warehouses of Marjan Šarc were neither Fičkak nor. [[Incomprehensible]] So, see here, of course, the economic minister followed this principle to get something like nothing. Today, some comparisons have also been drawn with self-sustainment, war and so-called war with an invisible enemy, I think that these parallels actually hold still, because even in 1991 there was no intimate option for some to have an independent state. Even in 2020, we are witnessing that one was not an intimate option, that warehouses are optimally or at least minimally loaded, which is sad again, even tragic. And now there's something else from the local environment I'd like to tell you. Now, usually, the opposition is the red one, full of words about solidarity. One word today was not about what you did to your fellow opposition. What have you done to help the inhabitants of your local environment and possibly health personnel? I will now tell you that the members of the Slovenian Democratic Party in Maribor have taken care of more than 10 families throughout the epidemic by providing them with food, emergency supplies and visits at least twice a week. At the same time, we carried out an action where we collected our ski glasses before Matthew Tonin spoke about how motorists even helped. So everyone who wanted to help and wanted to help helped in their own way. We have collected more than 150 ski glasses and believe me that in UKC Maribor, as it was during a certain period, the crisis has welcomed them. [[Incomprehensible]] So, what have you respected colleagues been doing in the field? One word wasn't about what you were doing. I assume that nothing and, as you are here today, are unconstructively discussing, more or less hitting the empty straw, which is, of course, an indication that this is a report, you are taking it in terms of the discreditation of this government. Now, in the face of these constant manipulations of yours, allow me to conclude just by underlining what is really essential, what is the essential point of this complementary proposal of the decision that we will confirm here today. So there are two points. At the time of the outbreak, there was a large shortage of equipment in the warehouses, and therefore the Government, which ruled until 12, is solely responsible. 3rd, this is the government of Mr. Marjan Sarc. And the second point that comes out of this report is the conclusion that the Government of Janez Janša then acquired this equipment in sufficient quantity and especially important, at a lower price than the previous Government and, of course, under the line, because of this effective rule, the worst consequences we have seen in Bergamo and elsewhere have been prevented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič has the word, and it will be mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Yes, today's debate is really sad and funny at times by some Members, what they can't do to cover up some facts. Now, we are living in 2020 and I agree with those who said today that we should look to the future. So, how are we going to get out of the recession that is undoubtedly waiting for us? Now, first of all, I would expect this from the current government that it will do the same, but what does the current government do? He deals with dispatches where we deal with journalists, the Minister for Foreign Affairs writes personal letters, I don't know what it means now, most likely that he went to the post office and bought the stamp himself and then sent it, and the official profiles of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, are in brackets such as: “After the release of the Cardels and Kidric Communists”, all these facts seem to indicate that the government is not dealing with the future, but with 60, 70 years old stories. Now, the government is fighting not only the media, the opposition, the judiciary, the protesters, but also the doctors. I think there was even a meeting yesterday where there was talk of what a doctor could tweet and what wouldn't. I think the National Assembly could then convene a meeting of what all politicians are tweeting. Then, even in this report, there is such an absurdity that there is a doctor's opinion, which has recently been on the right side of state networks, that he is left-handed and I don't know what. That is, when some data are correct, some persons are used and in other moments they are discredited. But the fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is at war with all those who are not of the same opinion and who hope to say out loud what the Government thinks otherwise. With regard to the report, this report is really a waste of time, according to the household statement, when you go to read, there is complete nonsense, accounting with the previous government and when Minister Tonin wondered what did not hold on to the data, in fact when you read the report and it is not written where the data came from, for example, it is written that Marjan Šarec did not call the National Security Council and then he is rounded up that this is according to Ambassador Jelko Kacin. So, it's tragic that in a report there's an opinion from Ambassador Jelko Kacin, now I don't know where he is, but I think he's an ambassador at the press conferences. Now if it's an official ambassador's service, but I'm saying no facts, some anals. In some interviews Kacin said something, and then it is used as an argument in a government report. Because he probably wrote it to UKOM because it's on the same level as dispatches and some letters. It also says that he is responsible for everything under Article 14 of the Government Act, says the President of the Government. This means that now, if anything is found to be wrong with any business, John Janša will be responsible for this because you just wrote that he is responsible for everything. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology then writes in, however, as planned, it is necessary to prevent a critical reduction in stocks of vital products, including medicines and medical devices. So, after what you wrote down, the Minister for the Economy is responsible. And if Minister Restoration is so bad and the former government has been so bad, it would have made sense that if Minister Restoration doesn't want to come in, the Prime Minister himself proposes his discharge, because he obviously violated what you wrote. Then it also says, for all contracts concluded, the Institute has previously obtained the consent of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. The Ministry of Economic Development and Technology shall, in accordance with the Law on Trade Reserves, give its consent to the selection of the Contracting Parties and to all contracts concluded by the Office. So, in fact, you have wet Minister Restoration, even though the coalition is defending him today, in this report. It is already the fact that Marjan Sarec is mentioned 11 times in this report, Ivan Gale 4 times, Zdravko Restoršek 3 times, and the current Prime Minister never once tells all about the credibility of such a report. I don't want to lose word on the conclusions themselves. That the Law-Legal Service has said that they are actually illegal and that in fact the National Assembly should get acquainted with them because you have a majority, you can take any conclusions you want if that makes you feel better. However, you will also have to take responsibility as you did for giving your voice to this government and for all its consequences, as well as for confirming this report, which actually suggests some cover-up by transferring all responsibility to the previous President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrej Reich will be followed by Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u132	Thank you so much for saying that. Today's review of the report was quite varied. On this occasion, I would like to remind the Slovenian public once again that we were the first party in the SAB to request and propose that special parliamentary supervision and a special budget item be established over spending and the allocation of money. Unfortunately, this report is nothing more than a political document that advocates an existing government and ministers in a way that muds the previous one. Why our proposal for a budget fund, a special budget fund and parliamentary supervision has not been adopted, we will obviously never know. But we can only find out that the money is gone. But we do have overpaid masks.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Jani Möderndorfer has the word, and he gets the word "Aleksander Reberšek" behind him. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President. Today there has been a lot of talk about this report, and I will try to mention this report only in three sentences, because the rest will be devoted to another topic that has been mentioned today. Indeed, this report is nothing more than the predecessor of a report from one of the investigative commissions, if, of course, it is to come to an end. That, of course, the report is unusual, especially as you know in the reports that usually come, they are informative, but in parliamentary practice, at least on committees, there is no vote on them, and usually they do not come to the plenary session, unless of course the authorities so decide, it seems today. However, today's amended decision is that it is essentially an acknowledgmental decision, but at the same time there are some findings that are claims, which is a kind of paradox, because I did not know that this is a new practice now. Finally, we had a report on sales and other forms of availability of state assets in 2019 by the government – something we have never experienced on a single sheet of paper. There's as many cases as you want. What matters to me, of course, is this. The Prime Minister said at the outset: "You know what happened in Berlin, what happened in Belgrade" and then, of course, mention Mr Ivan Stambolic. I find that extremely presumptuous, rude, and I will say at least what I expected the Prime Minister to say. Firstly, there was no epidemic in Belgrade at the time. Secondly, we all know from the historical facts that he gave Ivan Stambolic the murder of the then Milosevic, who was kidnapped a month earlier and found buried three years later because one month before he was kidnapped, of course the elections in the country were one of the reasons. Now I am skeptical here, if I were to make such comparisons, what the Prime Minister said for one simple reason. Because of this, in fact, you could have a different understanding if, of course, we know history and know what we are talking about. Of course, the Prime Minister is used to his greatness, but of course he speaks quite often, virtually the most often, and repeats them so long that he believes in them, that they really do. So roughly, I'm just going to give a comparison, just like he says today, that he washed up, I don't know, a billion in the NLB, knowing that one single case has been proven that happened with money laundering. One simple case. And these are the facts and this report was adopted here, in this National Assembly. You won't believe it, even the SDS, his client voted and confirmed that this is true. But he's still lying about a billion laundered in the New Ljubljana Bank. And that's why I don't know if I should believe this man or not. And that today he abused it in his recommendation and began to mention things with one wish and goal: to pay attention to something else. And on what they say, let's not talk about lame masks and fans, because we saved lives, but look, they're scared out there, of course. And then he turns to Parliament and says, "And you are the one who, of course, encouraged it here" and perhaps even organized it. That seems to me, at least, unworthy of the Prime Minister. And then he says an interesting sentence – when he spits everything into nothing, he says: “You are still welcome, come here, we will work together.” Please. So who's going to cooperate with the man you were spitting first and crush the walk? So much for correctness. But I'm afraid, but I'm afraid that something else is going to happen — something that's more dangerous for me. If we've been taking coronarys where we've been taking measures to solve problems and at the same time pushed in measures that have nothing to do with the coronation, I'm afraid, given that you're also opening up ideological themes to the rich and happy, of course, I'm going to say some of my own ambitions to realize your own agenda and beliefs, I'm afraid of what's going to happen when the epidemic is over, and that's what I'm most afraid of in this country, and that's why I'm not asking myself, because these people are going to go out there and demonstrate and actually, they're expressing, in fact, some kind of discontention, what do you think these people are doing, because they don't have anything to do? Because they like it because they like it? No, because someone keeps scaring them and because, instead of being reassuring, instead of using the elements that every statesman has to use, that is to calm his people, he does the opposite, and that is scary, in this country. I don't know the case except in countries I prefer not to mention and I don't want to be [[sign for the end of the debate]] on the list to which it would be compared, of course, this is possible and what the President of the Government is doing. The President of the Government, of course, doesn't give a damn about that, does he? He proved this by coming back and thinking that he was at home and that he could decide what he wanted in the National Assembly. Unfortunately, the moment will come when he finds out he was doing the wrong thing, I just hope it's not too late for those who can pay for it upstairs. Six billion, I'm afraid we'll all be paying together. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Where else is it going to be 3 or 4 billion, I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek has the word, and he will discuss it with Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u136	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. The fact is that the current government received an empty warehouse at the time of taking over because the previous government of Marjana Sarca underestimated the seriousness of the epidemic. This is also the subject of his quote in the media, dated 27 February 2020, where Marjan Sarec says: "The creation of stocks is completely inappropriate. Doctors don't panic." While the Medical Chamber expressed concern about the situation in our country, the World Health Organization warned that supplies of protective equipment were shrinking rapidly and that many countries around the world were taking steps to provide equipment. For example, France seized all the masks in the country and Russia and Germany stopped their exports. Doctors warned, Prime Minister Marjan Sarec replied that this was as if police officers were afraid of firearms. I am sure that all these problems would not be without them if the President of the Government acted as it would be. What needs to be done now is that the Commission of Inquiry, the Court of Auditors and all other state institutions will act as soon as possible to investigate the legality of business. Everything that was present, left and right, doesn't matter at all, everything. Do not misunderstand, but in this country are not the main problem of masks, problems are deeper and last longer, the problem is stolen half a billion from the TES 6 project, stolen 5 billion from the bank hole, written off to companies from the mayor of the largest city, amounting to EUR 29 million and more. And if we can make ultra light aircraft in this country, top exhaust systems, we have a lot of top scientists, I'm sure we can make masks, [[sign for the end of the debate]] , fans and other protective equipment that we are no longer dependent on imports and should therefore deal with self-sustainment. You have also read in the report that this Government is working, so this government will provide €1 million in the 2020 budget for development and the start of the production of fans and €1 million for the production of protective masks in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u137	Thank you very much. He's got the word Franci Kepa, he's got the word Joseph Lenart. Question, Mr. Duck, did I make any mistake in conducting the session, by any chance? [[advertising from the hall]] Please tell her.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u138	Procedurally, on Articles 75 to 80, and 14 of the Constitution, equality before the law. It is, of course, the implementation of Ambassador Pojbič, the chairman. Look, I don't have any problems, you can tell me here that I'm the biggest jerk, a fool, an idiot, such an idiot, different in the universe, but none of us can hurt each other's fellow citizens and fellow citizens. There, in the photo he was with me [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u139	Procedural proposal, please. [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u140	Municipality of the municipality [[…]] [[…]] It is procedural that we are a constitutional parliamentary democracy, where a Member under article 14 of the Constitution [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u141	That's clear. We all know that. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u142	He can't complain. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u143	Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u144	You didn't listen to me. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u145	Procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u146	Article 75 to 80 of the Constitution. [[…]] You should've [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u147	It's up to me to decide. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u148	You should be thinking about it. You should be reprimanding it. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u149	It's up to me to decide here. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u150	I should reprimand Member Pojbič, where he put Maribor's citizen, who has no right to expose us, because we are not some. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u151	Mr. Trček, you have no word because you violated the Rules of Procedure with your procedural proposal [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u152	[[advertising from the hall]] in this National Assembly [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u153	Unfortunately, you learn, once you knew when you were conducting a working-body session, now you don't know all of a sudden anymore. The word is Franci Kepa. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall - procedural]] . The word is Franci Kepa.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u154	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I say hello to everyone. [[advertising from the hall]] The fact is that the epidemic has spread from China since December of last year, and then around the world at high speed. The infection began to spread across Europe after the end of the celebration of their new year as workers returned to Europe. Slovenia borders Italy, where it was the largest epicenter of infections in Europe. The then government, the Sharčev government later reacted as countries bordering with it. The previous prime minister did not take the matter seriously; his statements were that doctors were afraid of the virus, it is entirely inappropriate that healthy people coming from abroad also from threatened areas remain on the hospital stock and other statements. For example, Italy has declared a state of emergency 31. 1. 2020, Croatia 5. 3, Slovenia 12. 3. The first official infection in our country was already 4. 3. 2020. The number of stocks, the state of stocks of protective equipment has been underfed, so to speak, is the new Government 13. 3. 2020 received almost empty warehouses. Purchase of all protective equipment from 13. 3. was carried out in emergency situations, purchases from masks, protective clothing to respirators took place as in war situations. All countries have had difficulties in purchasing emergency protective equipment. Main producers are located in China, only partly in Europe and elsewhere in the world. This comprehensive report contains chronological purchases of protective equipment, describing how difficult it has been to deliver these. It was almost impossible to get the equipment because it was not available, the decision was to get through intermediaries because there was no experience of direct procurement and staff feeding services. In this way, the intermediary companies purchased this way took responsibility. There is indeed a commission in between, for free, few can work, but also responsibility. The only respirators were paid in advance to some intermediaries, in part or in full. These were the hardest to get because the countries needed them bloodyly and directly saved lives. Practically everything that was happening on the market or what would happen in the near future, from the best to the worst or the less suitable. Due to the very good measures taken by the Government, we have very few infected, some more than 100 dead, and the warehouse is now properly filled. It is commendable, however, that Slovenian companies have already made a number of respirators at home, who would offer help at times of emergency. They'll probably go to serial production. That's very commendable. The gold rule is that the new government, after choosing 100 days of operation, has peace, without attacks by the opposition, but the government has been on strike ever since the first day. It bothers me that the Government, which has proven one of the world's most successful in overcoming the spread of the disease of the crown, is not criticising the opposition itself, which is normal somewhere, but mainly the main media house, public TV RTV and some other regime media, which with irregular issues and insinuations, organised issues, is meeting intolerance and hatred. Many journalists are also constructive and well-functioning in the interests of all people in the country. Where was the Tarč broadcast when a billion euros of so-called Iranian money were washed away. They did not come to the theft of state-owned enterprises, research services abroad say that this money is at least EUR 70 billion abroad. You know what political currents were run by public companies back then. Why not all companies have given employees shares in the form of shares, which have also helped to create them and a large share of each company to put in the pension fund. Let the Commission of Inquiry investigate all procurement of protective equipment, see if there have been any irregularities and let individuals be punished if they have occurred. And for the end. If the media and clients were to exert similar pressure on former Prime Minister Sharc as is now under way, Sarec would throw the rifle into the corn at one month of rule and it would lead to an even less infected and even better situation due to the virus in the country at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Joseph Lenart has the word, Eva Irgl gets the word after him, and if there is no time, the next is Jerza Korča. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u156	Thank you for your word, chairman. Today's report on the state of stocks of protective and critical medical equipment and purchases, which is, of course, a result of measures in response to the emergency health situation in early March when the new SARS CoV-2 virus was also detected on Slovenian soils, i.e. 4. 3, we had the case of what soon 14. 3. and the first case of death has already been recorded, i.e. the loss of life due to the cause of the infection. In Slovenia, the first wave of the epidemic succeeded in protecting the health and lives of its citizens. In doing so, we have lost only 103 lives, and we are among the countries that have had the least victim because of the crown according to the number of inhabitants. However, I made a small comparison between Slovenia, where the government, the new government, after just a few days and its composition, made order and effective measures to infect infections and between Sweden, which in fact did nothing at first, after the discovery of the first infection. So at the beginning of March, Sweden had about 50 detected infections, and then on March 13th, it lost the life of the first person, the cause of the infection, as with us. Why did I pull the parallels? Because it is a similar time of discovery and a relatively similar time of the first deceased, the cause of the crown in Slovenia and Sweden. However, if we look at the current state of the pandemic in Slovenia and Sweden, and if you also want the results of the work or work of the Swedish Government, the good work of the Slovenian Government, the results are as follows. In Slovenia we have up to 13. 5. 103 dead persons in Sweden are up to 13. Five, three thousand, four hundred and sixty dead. Respectable, and all those present who still do not believe that the matter is serious. In Sweden, 34 times more people died than in Slovenia. Sweden is only 5 times the population size of Slovenia and now the cause of all these excruciating deaths in Sweden. This is what they have over 500, if compared with Slovenia, in their irresponsibility, flexibility, melancholyness and responsibility also their government with the Prime Minister of the Government at the summit. If we now compare these characteristics or the character traits of a person in this Chamber, we also have one Member, who, in fact, with his irresponsibility and melancholyness and flexibility in one function, is very responsible, in fact, acted in such a way that the new Government came in these scribblings, and his statements were somewhat summed up as such. Well, now you have it, the answer to Ive Dimic's question. Well, it's like cops are afraid of guns, the answer to the eyewitnesses of Igor Malevich, Dr. Medicine, etc. And then some of the so-called cyclists from the members of this National Assembly ask themselves again whether it was a serious matter. Yes, look, ladies and gentlemen, it was a serious matter, a kind of emergency in health care and some kind of war state, given that 103 people have died in Slovenia so far, more than in the war for the independence of Slovenia, 1991. And we know that it was a very extraordinary and very delicate matter, a serious matter that some have taken with responsibility. A few days ago, I was found in Ljubljana or, say, in a newspaper of Ljubljana Municipality, a lady who works in health and says: “I had an infection with Covid-19, who played his dance 11 days later in me. First, he crippled me with severe fatigue. I thought I was working too hard, and I fell asleep until the next day. And the next morning, after a little effort, my muscles started to hurt and, of course, everything that was being monitored, hard breathing and so on. The clinic happened. Her husband was already waiting there. But they had one small group of six people, and this was true relatives hanging out, and, of course, they got infected there, and then they were lying together at the clinic. So they were powerless, they couldn't really talk. Well, this is confession one, one. Well, if we go back now to the government report and, of course, in the direction that the procurement was appropriate or not, irregularities were committed or not, someone took advantage of it — see, until we have evidence, you cannot say that someone is stealing. As long as we have no evidence that someone has taken advantage of this money in his pocket, you cannot speak and especially stress – I tried to find some 20 protective masks for my family at the time, and a small disinfection – there was nothing in Slovenia. And then, because there was nothing, they're actually, if I were to ask me if I would give one euro, two euros instead of a mask, to protect my children and my parents – yes, of course I would give and you all in here when you're sitting would give. And thank God we have responsible citizens who have somehow worked to have a responsible government that doesn't care about their family, who doesn't care about their citizens. And once again, we cannot be grateful to those who are irresponsible citizens and do not adhere to the rules and, of course, some irresponsible also here who have gone cycling without protective masks. I'd rather take it down now, because if they don't have to wear 2,000 people in a crowd, I don't know why we have to wear it here between 90 and 90. And so on. And I wonder, would all those heroes who were there and, of course, even some with such symbols of the former state now take advantage of the opportunity to sue them for socialism, and were all those heroes willing to be on the street in 1991 when the aggressor planes were in the air beating civilians? If they can play with other people's lives and theirs now, I'd really like to know if they'd get their hopes up. And I have to say, I was hoping that we would stick together more in this house, so I ask you to think about your actions of setting up and these bikers' meetings, because in fact in a similar crisis this has not happened anywhere else in our neighbours. Even so, because you are an example, if not to others, but to your constituents, let us make a greater effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u157	Thank you very much. It's 15 seconds. Let's move on then. The word is given to Jerz Korča, followed by Joseph Lenart. Jerca Korca, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u158	Yes, thank you, Chairman. Although I have prepared for the debate today a little bit more substantively, when I have listened to this all day, I will draw the line just in one fact. Everyone who enters a public function and enters this path is the first thing that must be aware of objective responsibility. Whoever can't do this isn't into politics. The man who sat here today and taught us and was frozen at some time by the aggressive attacks of any army, that man cannot overcome these objective responsibilities in any way. That's been clear to everyone for 30 years. Because if I were to conquer it, today the right hand and left and this Parliament and this Slovenia would not be stabbed with why we do not have normal fluctuations or exchanges of power between the left and right, because this is normal for democracy. That is why we do not have them, because in the Slovenian political space the one and only man who has the only desire and this is to separate the nation, to avenge all, to heal his traumas from some communist times and yes, I will go so far – to deny us young people the future. Because the same man who sat there today is not and can't be a man who can think of what our Slovenia will look like in 10, 20 or 30 years. It's not, and it can't be. And objective responsibility in all this pyramid building, in all the course of these acquisitions, should be taken over in all the media disclosures. I agree if anyone put anything in their pocket at that time, it's a matter of court proceedings, it's a matter of investigation. I also agree with the fact that most people were also in the official part of it, who cared that things were going on within at least some of the frameworks and that they were giving away their free time and working days and nights, but my dears, it was the policy that was responsible for setting up the system and creating this mud water and it was the one that must assume objective responsibility. We should have done it a long time ago without dealing for a month with who did it, who didn't do it, and what was going on. Only with objective responsibility can we stand before our citizens and set an example for them and we are the first. And I apologize if anyone in his right mind estimates that this whole course of events that has taken place is no reason to assume political responsibilities and the dominant effect of a few people, then I no longer understand where we are taking this National Assembly, this policy and this country. And if John and his affairs, with his visions, with his state of war in his psyche led you to the Scat, then you also assume responsibility for keeping this man within the political space or within the executive branch of authority. About the level, because I hear that my colleagues are getting upset and I'm going to end up here, and you're the last, really last in line to talk and moralize about any level, because your level is so low that if I write a text, I can't let go to such a low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Now, as far as the design of the future is concerned, you've been waiting for your Marjane Sharc, and that's not what happened. He had all the scissors in his hands, the canvas, and nothing happened. Now they will be procedural, I suggest they are procedural, then there will be no embarrassment. First of all, Comrade Merjasec. Here you go. Moscrich, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u160	Yes, Madam President, I ask you to request an apology from the previous speaker, because I have been here in the National Assembly since the new Government has been set up and I have not had the opportunity to speak either the word A or B, because I have tried to listen first and today I have been greatly humiliated as a representative of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Now, in this way it is not possible to do business, but it is the integrity of the Member. Now, the level was pretty low for some intellectual. We're moving on. First of all, Franz Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u162	Yes, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u163	If procedural [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u164	In particular, my procedural reference is to Articles 75 to 80, as well as to the entire Rules of Procedure as one of the most experienced Members and Members of Parliament, who really masters the Rules of Procedure, it is clear to me that I do not know how to conduct a meeting or that I once knew them, and you are commenting, Comrade Tanko. You're in charge of the session. If you want to discuss it, sign up and discuss it as a Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u165	Procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u166	This is a procedural proposal. When the leaders meet, the leaders meet and do not comment, dot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u167	I owe it to the chairman to draw attention to the errors or inconsistencies that you are making and that [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] I am giving you a warning for this procedural proposal. [[…]] Next up is Mrs. Shrinjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I have a procedural proposal to give a warning to the predecessor, the respectable Mrs Jerzi Korce, who has collectively humiliated us, disgraced us and despised us. I think we can have opposite opinions, totally opposite opinions, but we must maintain the dignity of one another and indeed insults are not in place. On a level like this, I've never heard anything like it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Now, I didn't act right away. I must also admit honestly that its debate was not even the worst in terms of the level, but of course it is up to each individual to which level it will descend, whether there will be no plus one detail on the stage, or whether it will debate, as it is up to the Member of the High Commissioner, the High Commissioner, and is also worthy. Mrs. Korce, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u170	I suggest you stop these procedural proposals, the chairman. This is my procedural proposal that you will not, yes-
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u171	Please, if you sign out then, right? We're just gonna start right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u172	To break the rules. However, I apologize to my colleagues in the SDS for deciding, or consciously deciding, that when they entered politics, they did not enter politics to work for this country, but, above all, to work in accordance with this-
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u173	Procedural proposal. You don't have a replica, you don't have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u174	to defend their President and in accordance with the fact that they do not have a basic view of this [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u175	You don't have a word. I'm giving you a warning. You have a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u176	what the function of a Member means. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u177	Second warning. Procedural run, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u178	Rule 80 of the Rules of Procedure. Since you can't guarantee order at the meeting, I suggest you stop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u179	Thank you very much for your proposal. When it's time, I'll do it. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which he will be given the floor by a representative of the government. You want a word? You don't want to. Then I conclude the debate. And we are moving on to the debate on the point and the amendment tabled. I am putting forward the first item and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? He doesn't want to. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The decision on the amendment will be made in 15 minutes in the framework of the vote, which is at 7 p.m. and 15 minutes. Until then, I interrupt this point and the 37th session, which we will continue as I have foretold. (The sitting was suspended at 1858.) (The sitting resumed at 19.15 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u180	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We move to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Gradually, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. Chairman, I hold the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in my hands. This is a book of rules that governs the functioning of our house and that you, as chairman, should have in a small finger. The decision you now wish to put to the vote is illegal, is unconstitutional and is against the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This was pointed out by the Legal and Legal Service we have in this house. This is what we have warned Members of the opposition and Members of the opposition on Tuesday when this meeting began. In these two days, from the beginning of the meeting to today's vote, the chairman, if you haven't had this in the small finger, could read Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure. This 239, paragraph, goes: “The government may report to the National Assembly on its work in writing or orally at the meetings of the National Assembly. If the Government sends a written report to the National Assembly," and what the Government has sent a written report on the acquisitions of protective equipment, "the President of the National Assembly shall immediately inform the Members thereof. The representative of the Government may explain the written report at the meeting of the National Assembly.” There is no vote on such a report. However, Presidents, you are on the point of putting this illegal, unconstitutional and anti-business decision to the vote because the Government has put it in the wrong procedure. The government, however, has put him in the wrong procedure because he wants to make a national assembly for his accomplice in his dirty business, in places of money, when commissioning for the purchase of protective equipment. To achieve this goal, as it is said, it has reached out to a strategy which is unconstitutional, illegal and against the Rules of Procedure. And the presidents, I think that at this point, referring to Rule 239 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, you can only find that this report has been presented and then we can conclude the meeting, because the vote on such a decision simply cannot and cannot be. If this happens, we have taken another step towards the full authority of Janez Janša in this country, which has been established in the last two months by a coup against the police, by the impact on democracy, by the impact on the media, and finally by the impact on the budget. It is not negligible that one of the strategies of this blow to the budget is that public money, public funds, is seized by commissions on acquisitions of protective equipment in order to feed Janez Janša and his government to proper intermediaries with proper client pedigree in the private sector, who are, of course, allies of this or those coalition political parties.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u182	Dear colleague! This procedure shall be governed by Rules 112, 169 and 239 of the Rules of Procedure. If you had applied only Rule 239, you would probably have objected to this, because you would have had the opportunity to present the position of the Government only to the President of the Government and there would not have been such a debate as it was today. However, I do not have any business opportunity to withdraw what was prepared and amended and corrected on the working body from the vote. I don't have that option, so today we're going to vote on it. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] My friend Kordish, procedurally, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u183	In addition to 239, the President mentioned some other articles of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which are followed by today's proceedings. But as we have already warned you at the meeting of your mother's working body, this is the Committee on the Economy, as we have warned you Members and members of the opposition at the opening of Tuesday's meeting, which is being concluded today, should not even come to this procedure. As soon as the Government had incorrectly submitted and forwarded the material to the National Assembly, the procedure should be completed, although it is not unconstitutional, illegal and contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. And this, this moment, right now, Mr. President, is the last moment you can do the right thing that you haven't done so far, because the government wants to get the support and blessing of the National Assembly, the looting of public money, for the theft that's been going on, probably still going on. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u184	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u185	for the acquisition of protective equipment. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u186	What's your procedural proposal? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u187	My procedural proposal, the presidents, is the same as before, and I do not think that you have justly rejected it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u188	No, it's [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u189	This is to conclude this meeting not with a vote, but with the conclusion that the Government's report was presented that the National Assembly had become aware of this and that we are then adjourning the meeting. [[…]] We end it without a vote, without allowing the National Assembly, the legislative branch of power, the elected branch of power, the granting of legitimacy and recognition [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u190	My friend Kordish, please. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u191	The thefts that take place under the government of John Janša. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u192	To stop abuse now, to abuse procedurally. [[…]] As I told you, I have no basis, so it is said, that the President of the National Assembly does not have any basis for withdrawing the decision transmitted to the plenary by the working body. No, it's just not in the Rules of Procedure. So, we're voting today. My friend Runk, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u193	Yes, procedurally, it refers to the same story, but when in this TV shop, that's not all. Recently, Members of the opposition and members of the opposition have been horrified to find that you, Mr President of the National Assembly, have surpassed Chuck Norris. [[advertising from the hall]] Two minutes before the request for a meeting of the Committee on Finance came, you had already set an hour and a date of reference, which, see, coincidentally with the third continuation by the Commission for the supervision of public finances, since at the second reference point, at point 2, when the Government is already 14 days late with the monthly report on intervention with the budget, there was no Janez Janša, not Mr Šircl, not his State Secretaries. One of my favorite books is the book of the Nobel laureate, Coetzee, her address is Disgrace. I will not translate this into Slovenian, this is you, this is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, this is the end of parliamentaryism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u194	It's a warning. Misuse of the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u195	And that's not all if I keep going where the predecessor ended up. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u196	What's your procedural proposal? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u197	The government should [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Report to the National Assembly on the need for [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u198	[[There's a riot in the hall.]] Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u199	The government should report to the National Assembly on the use of public finances. This applies in general, not only to the acquisition of protective equipment. After 2 months of the government of Janez Janša, how many, do you think the National Assembly on the Use of Public Finances previously released and subordinated to the government does it really know? Nothing. Nothing at all. At least as far as the acquisition of protective equipment is concerned, this information should be obtained through a report prepared by the Government. But look at the fragment, John Janša's government reports that Janez Janša is ruling [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u200	Colleague [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u201	It's not her fault. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u202	What's the procedural proposal? [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u203	My procedural proposal is that this farce, this next step in the attack on democracy carried out by the government of Janez Janša, should be concluded and concluded at today's meeting, without any major complications, only by complying with the rules of procedure. That you, the chairman, decide how the government of Janez Janša is super, nice and innocent, which is unconstitutional, illegal and against the Rules of Procedure, do not put to the vote, but simply find out [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u204	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u205	Yeah, next 239. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u206	You're abusing the Rules of Procedure again. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u207	Article 239 of the Rules of Procedure [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u208	And, look, Comrade Kordish [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u209	The National Assembly took note of [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u210	If you do not have a new procedural proposal [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u211	And the presidents, I don't abuse the Rules of Procedure. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u212	Do you have any new procedural proposals? [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u213	You're abusing the presidency to take my word for it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u214	No, look at me, Buddy Kordish. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u215	By the Rules of Procedure, I have every opportunity to submit my procedural proposal in three minutes. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u216	I take your word on the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u217	And if there's a procedural proposal [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u218	[[advertising from the hall]] My friend Kordish. On the basis of Article 78, I have taken away your word for misusing the Rules of Procedure. [[advertising from the hall]] Any more procedural? Comrade Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u219	Dear President, what has been happening, with some escalation, in the last two months since this new coalition was formed, has been said to be unacceptable. At the end of March, I think that in one statement, in an interview, you have declared or assured that you will make sure that in fact the degree of freedom of parliamentaryism and democracy in this Parliament will be completely intact. [[Incomprehensible]] Two months after that, we have the Prime Minister of the Government, who is constantly attacking everyone who thinks otherwise, last but not least. [[?]] The media. We have an foreign minister who is constantly sending letters that violate Slovenia's reputation for the international public. [[advertising from the hall]] and we have a whole bunch of violations in this House that are totally unacceptable. As already stated by colleague Kordish, as we have already said at the beginning of this meeting, this decision is in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. [[advertising from the hall]] in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, contrary to the Constitution, the law and the Rules of Procedure of this National Assembly. It is your duty to take care of the reputation of this National Assembly in such a way as to express some total zero tolerance for errors in procedures. And what's happening right now is a roller-skating democracy. Just because you're 46 [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u220	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u221	plus [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u222	What's your procedural proposal? [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u223	Because of these, these interruptions too are something that seems to indicate the discomfort of the seat you are sitting in. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u224	No, that's my buddy Kordish. [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u225	Accordingly, the measures provided [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u226	Excuse me, Matthew Vatovec, what's your procedural proposal? Look. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Can we hear a procedural suggestion of abuse? [[Incomprehensible]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u227	Dear President, I would have come up with a procedural proposal if you'd let me. I think you've eaten me up for 30 seconds with your interventions. For this reason, because of what this coalition is doing, but also you, the President, I declare, under the second paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure, the absence of all Members and Members of the Levica Group at point 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u228	That's what we expected. Comrade Matjaž Han. Mate Matjaž Han has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u229	Thank you very much. In order to avoid your intervention, I now announce, my procedural proposal under Article 65, paragraph 2, will be abandoned by the Social Democrats and the vote obstructed. But I'll tell you why we're gonna do it. First, I am aware, my dears on this right, and a little to the left, that you have a majority and that in this National Assembly in this room, in other rooms you can accept every single thing that you please, because you have these 46 votes and more. It's a democracy, bravo. However, as a member of this National Assembly, I do not allow ourselves to be, however, a legislative branch of power, to dictate to us the pace of how and how we will work. However, it is not a problem at a time, the problem is that we are dictated in such a way that you do not have to follow your own rules of procedure or we cannot follow and that you overrun every article of the Rules of Procedure in this National Assembly. That's one thing. President, you said you were working on the Rules of Procedure. However, you do not work by the Rules of Procedure and this session that we have come to this meeting in such a way, with such conclusions is not according to the Rules of Procedure. Finally, you were told this by the Law-Legal Service, which, of course, you did with the majority you have, in a way, put it aside. If we do not take into account our legislative and legal service, my dears, in this National Assembly, what will we do? And I think it's absurd. On the other hand, when the opposition puts forward extraordinary meetings of the committees, in our case the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Justice, the Chairperson of this Committee firmly rejects our decision and our extraordinary meeting and does not allow us to convene an extraordinary meeting. So much for these double criteria that one committee president can afford and can't afford to be president of the National Assembly. So, my dears, you have before you, and we have a report that we are familiar with, the Social Democrats disagree with this report, and that is why we will not vote on any of your conclusions that essentially confirm what you have done, but you have done a lot of damage. [[End of discussion warning sign]] for this country, so we leave this hall and vote these conclusions on your own, and in the end people will tell us which one in this country knows democracy and which one of these democracies does not know how to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u230	Good. Only in answer that will not remain unanswered [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u231	No, we're gone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u232	[[advertising from the hall]] No, it's good, because we expected it to happen. I'll give my colleague Golubovic my word. Okay, first my friend Golubovich, then my colleague Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The President of the National Assembly is the first among the same and his duty is to think with his head, to take into account the Legislative and Legal Service, the Rules of Procedure, our little constitution. In this National Assembly, we had quite a few gentlemen who served as President of the National Assembly, who placed a border on every government to where it could go. A lot of criticism was given to Mr. Cukjat for the conduct of the state meeting [[?]] But it was sir. I will also procedurally say that I will not be interrupted, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65. But the reason is this. The reason is this, President, that we have already warned on the Committee on the Economy that the point is not tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It's a report. We have heard a coalition member who said that in 20 years it had not happened that a report would have been submitted in the way it was. We've always been familiar with the report. You, not you, the government imposes its conclusions on the National Assembly, which is also not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. More! Both in writing and orally at the meeting itself, the Legislative and Legal Service has said that these substantive decisions proposed by the Government and adopted by you are neither the legal basis nor in the Constitution in law nor in the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, dear colleagues and colleagues, this is no longer a coalition of more parties than has been said, it is a coalition of one party, one president, one ideology, and in this place Members and Members of the LMŠ leave this vote. Let the SDS Council vote with you, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u234	Colleague Masha Kociper, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u235	Yes, thank you for your word. Our Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which we also refer to as a small constitution, stipulates that obstruction should be announced in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 65 and that the reasons for it should be given. On behalf of the SAB Group, I therefore declare obstruction of voting at this point. The reasons, of course, are clear, due to the repeated and problematic abuse of the Rules of Procedure in addressing this point. I wonder, indeed, the well-respected coalition, why you had to implement these business maneuvers. You had the opportunity to write this report to the government, the government had the opportunity to write a report any way it wanted, and it could have written whatever it wanted. This report would be made public, it would be dealt with in the National Assembly as it has always been, and what is written there could not be taken from you. But you went into these maneuvers, you changed practice for the first time, you wanted to cross the previous government with some conclusions. Why was that necessary? The sole purpose of these manoeuvres was not only to accuse the former government but also to condemn and blame it for everything that was wrong. It's totally unnecessary. There's a lot of people in this house who don't agree with law enforcement, sometimes I don't. Their opinion is just an opinion, but we have always respected this opinion when the Legislative and Legal Service interpreted its document, its constitution, this is the Rules of Procedure. And in that case, you didn't respect it. And I am sorry that, in these difficult times, when the health crisis is finally a little small, we are facing a major economic crisis, with such nonsense separating people and this Parliament. Let me tell you what the fundamental difference is now in whether this was a decision or would you like to familiarise yourself with the report as it has always been in the past? As we say, we are also obstructing on behalf of the Sab party and I regret that decisions in this house are confirmed which do not have the basis in the Rules of Procedure and in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u236	Thank you very much. An explanation of the voice? Excuse me. We therefore continue with the end of agenda 2 – to consider the proposal for a decision on the status report, reasons, stocks and orders of personal protective equipment and critical medical equipment when the SARSCOV-2 epidemic (COVID-19) is declared and procurements that have enabled Slovenia to successfully deal with it. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled of 14. 5. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to point 1. Comrade Horvat, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u237	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I owe it to the Slovenian public, who is following us to tell us why it is actually going. What the opposition parliamentary groups have obstructed the vote, that is to say exactly: Left, SD, LMŠ AND SAB spoke and argued why they are leaving, is wrong and shows that this amendment, which we received today at the beginning of this meeting, has not been read on the table. We do not vote on the report. The National Assembly took note of the State and Explanation Report, because I have too little time with the amendment tabled by the coalition parliamentary groups, the first point is amended by specifying the time frame, circumstances and actions that are reflected in the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and with which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has also been briefed. It is therefore proposed to amend the text of the decision, which, in the light of the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, would reach out to the Institute of the Investigative Commission. By not defining the responsibility of the holders of public functions, but the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is only aware of the facts arising from the report of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which is responsible for its work to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So we do not vote on the decision proposed in the government's work, but we have done our part if you want to comply with the recommendations and opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service. That's what this is about. And the Group of Members will support this amendment to the updated proposal for a decision on familiarity with the report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u238	Thank you very much. A fellow criminal, on behalf of you? No, no, no. Then Comrade Victory Jelinčič on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u239	Thank you very much. My colleague Horvath explained the matter well, and why we will vote for – both the amendment and the conclusions. I'd just fix it in something if the whole opposition hadn't gone out, and there's one opposition that's up to the country that wants us to go forward and do something, but not every force we've been burdened by because they've shut down the tentacles from which they've been fed. [[advertising from the hall]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-14-SDZ8-Izredna-37.ana.u240	Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendment. I inform you that I have not been informed that the proposal for a decision would be inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this item and the 37th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
