ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 18th session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Bojana Muršič from 13.30 p.m., Maša Kociper, Violeta Tomić to the vote, Igor Peček from 9 am to 11 p.m. and Marjan Šarec from 14 p.m. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on the amendments to the holiday law and the work of the free days in the Republic of Slovenia, the reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 35 Members and Members with the first signature of Gregor the Jew. For further explanation, I give the floor to the representative of the motioners, Gregor Židan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u2	Dear President, honourable Members and honourable Members! Sport is one of those activities that have a kind of positive effect. On the one hand, the rich quality of individual life and, on the other hand, its effects also have a significant impact on society as a whole. Sport has exceptional opportunities to bring people together and reach everyone, regardless of age or social belonging, and it also represents an important symbol of our identity. Slovenians are a sports nation, we like to move, and Slovenian children are also the most active in the world. Our athletes in the world are achieving excellent results, which we can be extremely proud of. Since I am also an athlete, I became personally involved in the initiative of the Olympic Committee, the Association of Sports Unions of Slovenia in order to get Slovenia a new holiday, the day of Slovenian sport, and therefore, as first-signed with other Members and Members, submitted a proposal for a new law. We followed the initiator's proposal to celebrate a new Slovenian holiday on 1 October, the day the first gymnasium society in Slovenia was established in Ljubljana in 1863. Although the coalition parties proposed a second date on the committee responsible with the amendment on 15 October, which I supported because I believe that it is crucial that we receive a holiday of Slovenian sport at all. The new amendment of the coalition moves this date to September 23rd, the day Slovenia received the first gold Olympic medal. The new holiday would emphasize the importance of sport, so it was our intention to organise various sports events and events on this day and thus give sport an appropriate mark at national level. Sports events are of great importance for the development and care of sports culture, as they can promote motivation for sport and sports activities. We have also proposed that a new Slovenian holiday should not be a day off, so as not to result in an additional drop in working hours and an increase in obligations for employers and to maintain the comparability of the number of holidays with other European Union countries. I believe that by introducing a new State holiday, on the one hand, we would further encourage people to live and move and, on the other hand, strengthen the important impact of sport that it has on us. I look forward to the support of all Members of the bill. I feel very Olympic, and as I would say, I feel very sporty and proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u3	Thank you. For further explanation, I also give the floor to the representative of the proposers of Janji Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u4	We often hear that the Slovenians are negotiatingly separated. But the fact is, we are quite united in the success of our athletes, our heroes. And this is reflected in the results with which Slovenian ambassadors are enthusiastic every day, which should follow the example of many spheres of social life. Sport is not just a domain of professionals, but sports is a very important part of the population. Slovenians like to run, cycle, go to the hills. Participation in marathons, crossroads, cycling events and hikes is increased every year. There is also an increase in the audience at all sports events, where we quickly unite and cheer together for our heroes. Hard work, persistence, renunciation, consistency, these are values that are common to successful athletes and that should be followed by everyone, in all areas of life. Sport also takes on an increasingly important place in the design of Slovenian national identity. Remarkable sports events, such as the cycling race across Slovenia, are an excellent opportunity to promote Slovenia as a green, active and healthy destination. They are then in Slovenia through 10 hours of direct transmission, seeing 40 million people all over the world. Sports events and events are of great importance for the development of sport and sports culture, for the rearing of young people in all fields and all sports sectors, promoting motivation for sport, for a healthy lifestyle, for a healthy lifestyle. From this we benefit all, each individual and, of course, all together, as a society. In addition to social impact, sport also has an economic impact. Otherwise, not as foreign as in more developed environments, but not as neglected as we are. [[sign for the end of the debate]] According to some data, sport in Slovenia is expected to create over 600 million euros and employ more than 20,000 people. Therefore, there is no doubt that sports and athletes deserve their holiday, which will mean the promotion of Slovenian sport, healthy lifestyle and health care. Of course, just because of the goals it pursues and wants to achieve, it means working day and not working day off. Notes on personal engagement [[sign for the end of the debate]] they are unnecessary at this time and this personal engagement is not justified by one photograph together with the competent minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Labour Committee, the family, social affairs and persons with disabilities as a working mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, colleague Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, as a parent working body, has considered the proposed Act on Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia. The representatives presented the draft law, the opinion was also presented by the representative of the Ministry of Labour and the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said they had no comments on the bill. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supports the proposed amendments. In particular, the importance of disabled sport has been highlighted, which the Commission calls for not to be overlooked in Slovenian society. The representative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia – The Association of Sports Unions, explained their proposal that the day of Slovenian sport should be October 1st, since, at the initiative of the European Commission between 23rd and 30th September, the European Week of Sport takes place, with a number of sports activities, which could then be symbolically completed at the national level, on October 1st, the day of sport. In the debate, all the debaters agreed that Slovenian sport also deserves its holiday. Not only because of the results of top athletes, victory, pride and the strengthening of national consciousness, but also because of the fact that according to research data, sport is recreationally engaged, almost 80% of citizens and citizens. With regard to 1 October, some pointed out that it was already defined as an international day of the elderly and that a new holiday on the same day would double the marking of two important segments of society, so it would suggest that a second date should be considered. The representatives of the Levica Group advocated their proposal for an amendment to the Committee so that the proposed holiday could also be a day off. Most of the debaters were detained from this proposal because they thought that we already had enough work available in Slovenia and that we are comparable to other countries of the European Union. Regarding the date that would be appropriate, it was said that various proposals and various historical events were made, and in the end, the argument prevailed that as a day of Slovenian sport was to be determined on 15 October. This was also a proposal for an amendment to the Committee by the coalition parliamentary groups, which was adopted by the Committee since the Olympic Committee of Slovenia was established on this date in 1991. The Committee then voted on both articles of the bill and adopted them. A complementary proposal for a law, including the adoption of an amendment, is being prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The Government's opinion will be presented by the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, Mrs Mateja Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u8	Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal to establish a new holiday, the day of Slovenian sport, is linked to the initiative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. This would highlight the importance of sport, and on this day various sporting events and events would be organised to give sport an appropriate mark at national level. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes, however, that the area of holidays and holidays is regulated by the Act on Holidays and Works of Days in the Republic of Slovenia and falls within the scope of the state regime, which includes general State acts and symbols. The definitions of holidays and holidays after this law are also linked to solutions in labour legislation that give workers the right to work away from work on a holiday and work day with the right to pay or to a specific evaluation of work if workers have to work on this day because of the continuous work or production process or the specific nature of work. The Holidays and Work Act defines fourteen days as State holidays and six additional days as days off. Of this, a total of 15 work days are laid down by law, with the arrangements in the Republic of Slovenia for the number of work days being comparable to those in other European countries where the number of work days available varies from 10 to 15. The bill provides for an additional new definition of the holiday day, which would not be a day off at the same time. This would not result in an additional loss of working hours and consequently an increase in the cost of employers. It could only provide for indirect financial effects on the budget, which are mainly linked to the organisation of State celebrations when the proposed new holiday is celebrated, and it is clear from the explanation of the draft law that the funds allocated by the State for the celebrations of State holidays and for the implementation of protocol events would remain at the planned level and that the implementation of the law would have no additional financial implications for the State budget as well as for other public financial resources. The purpose of the law governing holidays is to determine holidays and holidays of general importance or importance for all or most citizens. Therefore, the arrangements for holidays and holidays must certainly correspond to the actual attitude of our citizens as to the importance of certain dates to be given a special mark. From the point of view of labour law, which also lays down the specific rights of employees on these days and thus the consequences for employers, there is no reservation in the definition of an additional holiday day, which would mark Slovenian sport and would not be a day off, as this would not result in an additional failure of working hours and an increase in obligations for employers. Finally, it should be pointed out that the holiday arrangements should follow the actual attitude of citizens towards certain events and dates that need to be given a special mark, so the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not oppose the proposal to establish a new holiday that will adequately mark the mission of Slovenian sport, noting that this day and its marking should be followed to the fullest extent possible by the will of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and to revive their broadest support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, the Member Group of the Slovenian National Party, colleague Dušan Šiško, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u10	Nice hello to you all! The Greek word “healthy spirit in a healthy body” says that physical activity is also important for the human spirit. For several years, sociologists, philosophers, and theologians have found that sport for many has become a form of religion or its substitute. We are in the Republic of Slovenia after a total number of holidays, which are work-free days, taking into account Easter or Pentecostal Sunday in second place immediately for Slovakia. Most holidays in European countries are religious. In addition to the new year and the holiday, the work is a holiday celebration related to the statehood of each country. We also have five additional holidays, which are not defined as part of the day off, but because of the importance of the events they should be given a special mark. I think our citizens don't know much about them, because everyone remembers those holidays when they're at home in the family circle. The amendment proposes a new state holiday on the day of Slovenian sport, which would not be a day off. Thus, there would be no further loss of working hours, an increase in obligations for employers and would not affect the reduced competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. Most employees work until 16 p.m. Kids, kids are for phones, TV, computers. October 15th was supposed to be the day of Slovenian sport, since 29 years ago it was established by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia. The amendment is proposed on February 5th, as Slovenia joined the international Olympic Committee 28 years ago. The date of birth of Roko Petrovič, the golden boy of the best ski generation, is also proposed. The amendment is now proposed on September 23rd, as the Olympic medals were awarded for the first time in the history of the Republic of Slovenia, even twice. The social role of sport stems from the scientifically proven importance of sport for public health, both physically, mentally and socially, as well as for socialisation and the economy. There are few countries in other countries of the European Union that know the system of legal setting for holidays that are not part of the day off. The pensioners' union seems to have a more suitable date on August 26th, when the four boys first climbed Triglav, which is today a symbol of Slovenia and Slovenia. I don't know how to mark it, because there are still summer vacations and some employees are still on vacation. The first-thinking date of October 1st is already the international day of the elderly. Should only older ones be sportingly active then? However, it could be the appropriate date of 12 November, the birth of Leon Štuklj, Slovenian gymnast and Olympics. He was a man of three centuries, longed for a venerable hundred years and deservedly won the title of the best Slovenian athlete of all time. However, it could also be November 8th, the date of his death, as Prešeren's Day is also February 8th on the day of his death. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Tomaž Lisec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Good bye to all of you! At the beginning of our thanks to the Olympic Committee for the proposal to mark more solemnly in our legislation what our athletes bring us, joy and that this joy also gets its holiday. We could discuss for a long time the content and meaning of sport and recreation, history, our joy when our athletes, either in club jerseys or in uniforms, Slovenian representatives bring us joy. We could discuss our Slovenian sports events, which are world famous and we all proudly show Slovenian flags to our athletes. We could talk about the pride of our Slovenian parents when we support our young heroes in their desire to become new Slovenian sports heroes. But today we have a date before us to celebrate Slovenian sport. February 5th, October 1st, October 15th, November. We have huge opportunities in Slovenia to celebrate the day of Slovenian sport. We have Mr Cvetkot, we have Mr Stukl, we have newer sports heroes, we have dates of Slovenian sports events, which are internationally known. We have the date of the establishment of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia. We have the date of establishment of the date when the Olympic Committees arrived in Slovenia by the International Olympic Committee. In short, a lot of dates. Some even proposed in a joke on January 1st or January 2, for at that time every Slovenian remembers that it is necessary to get serious into sports after the holidays that were ahead of us. But today we have before us the 23rd of September, which in our view is, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, some compromise, as it would probably be any compromise date I mentioned, a good one. It may also be good because at that time the weather is still receiving beautiful sunny days, and it can be easier for all to mark this holiday — both children in schools, people in their jobs, or pensioners, with different events. In the SDS Group, we will also not support the amendment that it would be a day off, because we believe that after international comparisons we are home enough, and we think it would not be fair that it would be just for the holiday of sport, so, for the holiday of the movement, those surfers who at home, from our seats, support the athletes, but we do nothing in this direction and think that the debate on the date, the holiday of sport, is a good start to the discussion of further, necessary measures, to improve Slovenian sport. In order to improve the status of Slovenian athletes as well as to improve working conditions for Slovenian athletes or sports infrastructure and this Government has already prepared the first measures to improve the status of Slovenian athletes and to improve Slovenian sports infrastructure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the law and the date of 23 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc. My friend Alaj Kovačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u14	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. At the time of today's consideration of the novel of the Law on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia, I would first like to stress the importance of sport for all generations and its contribution to all citizens and citizens. Sport is one of those areas that does not know social exclusion and, most importantly, promotes solidarity and strengthens national consciousness. Therefore, in the List of Marjan Šarc, as one of the candidates, we welcome, of course, the adoption of a new holiday, the day of Slovenian sport. We view the new holiday as a gift to all Slovenian athletes and also to the entire nation, and we see the day of Slovenian sport as an opportunity to promote sport, especially among the younger generations. Nowadays, life has moved online, social networks, and mobile phones, so it is important that we strive to promote movement, association, and a healthy way of life. In view of the fact that all segments of our society currently employ the problem of coronavirus and the search for solutions for mitigating the consequences that the epidemic will have for citizens and the economy, I would like to remind the Government in this place that it will also remember sport when taking measures. We know that sport is linked to the economy, and because of the epidemic, GDP is projected to fall, which therefore means less money for sport. I would also like to mention that many sports organisations are dependent on sponsorship. It will be a pity especially for those organisations that depend on sponsors from the most affected sectors. Therefore, today, when I hope that we will confirm with broad political consensus a new holiday, I really appeal to the Government not to forget sports. Let me conclude again with the following thought which one of the Slovenian athletes said: "It is not only important to compete, but also to win, but not every hero winner and every fool who wins." We will, of course, support the bill in the List of Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Comrade Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues. Let me tell you, introductoryly, it has been 20 years since the Slovenian football team first entered the European Championship. Of course, before that, after that, we have been very successful in the area of collective, as individual sports. Let me just say basketball, handball, football. We have the best cyclist, the best doorman, we have the best motocrosser in the world. Why am I exposing football? Because it is my colleague sitting here with us in Parliament, Gregor Židan, who was an excellent footballer and, as the first to be signed, represents today's bill. Of course, I used to be a football player myself, otherwise not as high-quality as Gregor the Jew, but nothing about it. That is why in the Group of Social Democrats, I believe, in all others, we have accepted with open hands the proposal to perpetuate sport in our society in addition to culture. We immediately supported and sought solutions and political consensus from the Olympic Committee and the Association of Sports Unions. Slovenian athletes and athletes, like each year, confirmed and consolidated the reputation of our country in 2019 as one of the most successful in sport in a global sense. For a long time, statistics of the winning Olympic medals have also been shown in relation to the number of people who keep Slovenia at the top; let me just remind you of Soča 2014. Therefore, it is no wonder that we can even talk about the phenomenon of Slovenian sport, which everyone recognizes; in recent days we are also a gastronomic phenomenon. Scientific knowledge shows that regular physical activity is one of the most important factors in maintaining health and preventing disease. The effects of regular physical activity are reflected in both physical and mental well-being. Moving is especially important for children who develop their coordination, strength, and balance, as well as for older ones who strengthen their health with it. In particular, it is important to commend the various organisations that organise various free sports events each year, which can be attended by everyone, including those that are otherwise unable to afford and receive these events. Social Democrats, we are so convinced that sport in Slovenia deserves its holiday, not only because of the extraordinary achievements of our top athletes, but also because of the important impact and benefits of sport it has on each and every one of us. As has already been said, Slovenian sport is a global phenomenon, so it also deserves a special city, deserves its holiday. That is why we will support this proposal by the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, a colleague of mags. Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! Slovenian sport is remarkable, not only because of the results of top athletes, victory, pride and the strengthening of national consciousness, but also because of the fact that, according to research, almost 80% of Slovenia's citizens are engaged in sports. The vast majority of these are involved in sports activities, and certain people are also engaged in sports. Some engage in unorganized sports, while others combine in societies, clubs or other sports organizations. Sport is one of the main allies of the Slovenian people, whether it is our handballers, footballers, basketball players, skiers, jumpers or anyone else, they always manage to unite us. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre we are convinced that we live in our country for sports and sports, so it is right to mark our sports holiday. This is why we have tabled in the legislative process a proposal for a novel of the Act on holidays and holidays in the Republic of Slovenia, which leads to the proclamation of a new national holiday, the day of Slovenian sport. The holiday would be devoted to promoting sport and strengthening awareness of the importance of physical activity for the health of every citizen of Slovenia. This day would be dedicated to all who love sports and would encourage people to engage in sports. On this day, various sporting events and events would be organised, thus giving the sport an appropriate mark at national level. We will work to ensure that all Slovenia, both children and adolescents, as well as adults and adults, will be sporting during this day. On this day, educational institutions would organize a sports day, companies would prepare so-called “team building” or mobile workshops. Professional sports workers and volunteers would visit the homes of older citizens and actively awaken memories of youth and association. Other citizens would devote this day to their own sports activities, to attending sports events and to physically active leisure activities. Our goal is that the day of Slovenian sport would be the day of Slovenian sport with special meaning to strengthen the active way of life and promote sport in the widest sense. This would bring sports closer to all those who have been accompanying them since today. This would be the day on which any citizen would express his or her attitude towards sports activities by means of his or her physical activity. It is not only about conquering and strengthening the motor style but also about strengthening the body and healthy lifestyle. All of this has an important impact on physical and mental knowledge and working ability, not least, promotes positive values and connects Slovenia. While sport means effort, perseverance, determination, but, above all, it means a simple need to share our joy and energy with our friends, we also want to stress the aspect of sport as fun and thus promote a positive attitude towards movement, an active way of life, living in nature and a quality of leisure. In the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre we wish that the day of Slovenian sport would be the holiday of our entire nation not only those who are professionally engaged in sports, but for all recreational athletes and all people who need to take care of well-being. In this way we will recognize that a healthy way of life and movement is a contribution to a healthy and successful nation and to being compatible. Although sport has long been an important part of our culture and an individual is a very important prerequisite for healthy lifestyles and positive lifestyles. If I finish. Sport has a rich quality of individual life and has an important impact on society as a whole. Sports have extraordinary power to reach everyone regardless of age or social background. This is one of the few factors that, despite our over-integrated political and social divisions, creates a sound basis for bringing our citizens and citizens together, thereby representing an important symbol of national identity and unity, so that we can see the unit as the most successful segment of our society, and therefore it is right that we mark it as a holiday, for all of the reasons mentioned above, we will support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party of the Law on Complementation of the Holidays and Works Act in the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Members of the Left, colleague Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u20	Hello! Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us a proposal for a law that would define one day in a calendar year as a day of sport, so the time that people and residents of Slovenia would devote to active participation in sports and recreational activities. If this law is adopted, we will celebrate the day of Slovenian sport on 23 September. The original proposal was on October 1st, then October 15th, then February 5th, and the amendment is now proposed on September 23rd. Coalition thinking and changing dates are not well-founded or well-founded, but any sport and recreation are activities that connect. Activities offering relaxation and psychological and physical reconstruction to an individual during a period of hard capitalism, when they are employed and their work, work, knowledge and skills under constant pressure of capital after excessive stress are such an important part of the free time, which, of course, remains for the worker or the unemployed, either because of the exploitation conditions in which he or she performs his or her work or because of concerns about the precarious social situation. So the day of sport, which the employee has the opportunity to spend in society or on the side of the burdensome part of anxiety and distress, is such a welcome proposal and we support it for the purpose of Levica. Spreading the set of labour rights is a key element of civil progress. In the last century, socialist, labour rights fighters and labour rights fighters fought key victories in the fight against untiring capital deadlines, Saturdays and Sundays, the right to leave and hospital absence, the prohibition of child labour, eight watchmen and others. With civilisation and technological progress and the automation of work processes, workers and workers understandably still have a wider range of independence and rights than the first and especially shorter working hours and more days. The present bill offers a day of sport, i.e. a day that every citizen devotes to sport and recreation, but therefore does not provide him with a basic condition. Well, enough free time. For he does not understand the new holiday as working a day off. Proposers in the law base their intention on, paraphrasing, job failure is unacceptable, increasing obligations for employers is unacceptable, reducing competitiveness is unacceptable. In capitalism, it's hard to imagine working a day off. Even rare opportunities for softening his shackles are intended for the worker to take advantage only in part, perhaps in the afternoon, when he is tired of his work or in the workplace itself, of course, even there, in accordance with clear employer directives. Something else is inconceivable. Sports day must be a day off. Because we are also proposing a supplement to the present law in the Levica Group. The day of sports, which would be a cultural holiday or religious holidays at the same time work free day, could only then achieve the objectives outlined by the applicant. Only part of a free sports day would actually allow for mass sports participation or participation in sports events and other activities. Only a free day of sports would it allow working families to spend their free time, hang out, forget their worries, and have more than a job, a job, a job, and an obligation from life. Only a day off in Slovenia would actually allow workers more voluntary sports and recreational activities. Only a day off would really be a day of sport for everyone and not just an opportunity for political officials in the presence of athletes to set up with objectivity. The policy objective is to create social, economic and social conditions in which every individual can enjoy the fruits of his work safely, so that he can have security and conditions for the application of his own potential and that he can live in prosperity with his fellowmen. She's working her day off following this idea. We will not oppose the law in the Levica Group, but we call on the Members to allow the residents and residents an additional day to spend their free time actively and qualitatively, that is to say, pursuing the basic purpose of the bill. At the same time, we call on sports and recreational events and sports infrastructure managers to open doors and use sports venues free of charge, following the example of cultural institutions on the day of culture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague of Tadeja Šuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. The proposal foresees that Slovenia, as a national holiday, will mark the day of Slovenian sport. That would be the day he'd be specifically dedicated to sports. I would stress the importance sport has for both a healthy lifestyle and a strengthening of national consciousness. It would be intended to promote sports. Then various sports events and events would be organised, for example in sports day schools and schools, in team building companies and mobile workshops. On 15 October we proposed to the Labour Committee, when the Olympic Committee of Slovenia was established. In the amendment, we proposed that the state holiday on September 23rd, when the first gold medal was won for the independent Slovenia by Luka Špik and Iztok Chop at the Olympic Games in Sydney, and Rajmond Debevec received it in the shooting and was played for the first time in the Slovenian anthem. In Slovenia we have excellent athletes and it is right to support them, pay attention to their success and support them with not so good results. Every victory in competitions is a holiday of Slovenian sport. However, we need to think not only about celebrating, but in society more emphasis needs to be given to education for a healthy way of life and movement. We must become a state of informed citizens who are physically and mentally in good condition. Sport and recreation support a healthier and better quality of life during all life periods. Investing in sports and recreational activities, sports and recreational participation of citizens in all life periods, is the greatest support for a healthy lifestyle. Investing the country in sport, which extends the space of sport to all generations and at the same time worries about the development of competitive sport, is investing in the healthy future of the people and citizens. Social culture, the sense of belonging and the dissemination of values in our sports societies are extremely important for Slovenian society. Sport is also education and integration. Through sports, we learn team spirit, honesty, discipline, consideration, and willingness to work hard. For older people, sports are a healthy way of life. We are equally committed to a wide range of sports activities and to supporting professional sport. Slovenia has repeatedly proved that we are a nation of top athletes. This is what we want to preserve, but not to the detriment of quality and recreational sport, as well as youth sport. We carefully and systematically want to support both the sports path of top athletes and their preparation for life, along the finished sports path. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats, we will support the proposal of the law, as it seems appropriate for us to remember Slovenian athletes in this way as well. At the same time, we will be given an opportunity to further promote sport and a healthy way of life in schools, colleges or workplaces. Health is our value and it is right to pay more attention to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek. My friend Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, President. Good-bye, everyone. The history of sport goes far into the past. The community and individuals have always enjoyed sports activities, participated in them, and accompanied their heroes. Competition is undoubtedly one of the needs of human development and human society. This was also realized by the Old Greeks, who knew the need for competition to channel blue into sport and they introduced the Olympic Games and during the Olympic Games, they also stopped the wars. So this competition does not only bring competition, it brings honesty, transparency, “fair” relationships that have brought people together and worked in the community. The phenomenal forms of sport have changed over time, as society has changed, they have become sports disciplines and sport has also become a strong economic activity. Let's just remember how much money turns around, say, in football and basketball and so on. But sports have incredible power that arouses in us a desire for mutual cooperation, belonging, inspiration, and at the same time improve our feelings, whether we are sportingly active or just loyal worshipers. Remember what sport euphoria Bojan Križaj triggered in 1980 when he “sucked” us the first Slovenian victory in Alpine skiing. Since then, there has been no Slovenian who would have missed the transfer of some kind of game. Schools even shut down their classes during the transfer. Many athletes flocked behind him and before him. Today we reminded the “Olympics” of Leon Stuklj. In both individual and collective sports, we are always proud to monitor and relive their achievements. Sport is thus an inspiration for younger and older generations, while it is an important aspect of the identity of Slovenians. This inspiration was obviously also inspired by the proposal of the novel, which is now ahead of us and is intended to introduce a new holiday, a sport day that will highlight the importance of sport and give it an appropriate mark, at state level. I am pleased, but here today between us, that this is, I see, one of the rare things that does not separate us, but unites us and we are relatively compatible, because this law will be supported by us and, as it appears, the majority of Members will support the law. I hope that we will once again achieve cooperation and consensus in the temple of democracy as it is today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The ancient river of the Roman writer Juvenal, which is a healthy spirit in a healthy body, is indeed true. Sports activity of an individual, whether professional and active or just amateur and amateur, has many positive effects on our body and thus on the quality of health and life. In addition to this beneficial effect, physical activity has other positive effects, sport strengthens confidence and mental health, has a positive impact on working ability, promotes positive values such as discipline, perseverance, collegiality, strengthens a positive attitude towards living in nature and quality-rich leisure. Sport is now one of the basic forms of mass culture of post-modern societies. Slovenians as a small nation are extremely successful, and the achievements of our athletes are fascinating. There is probably no one among us who, at least during the biggest games, would not sit up in front of the TV screen and cheer proudly stand up at the sound of the Slovenian hymn Zdravljica when our sports heroes win the winning stairs. Thus, sport plays an important role in the process of creating and maintaining national identity. The idea of defining a day of sport as a holiday is welcome, and in the Desus Group we support it. On the proposal of the law, some members of Desus have also given their signatures. We also welcome the vision of the Olympic Committee, which is the initiator of the marriage proposal, how this day should take place, for example, in kindergartens, schools, businesses, nursing homes and, of course, at home in the family circle. The proposal by the Left Group that this day should be a day off is not appropriate, according to our assessment. In the Desus Group, we see a greater added value for the purpose of a sports day in that employers recognize this day as a promotion of health in the workplace and the organisation of recreational and cooperative activities in companies on this day of working groups are even more closely linked. As far as setting the date of the celebration of this holiday is concerned, in our parliamentary group we believe that a meaningful date is one that reflects an important event for Slovenian sport. As such, the dates are certainly 15 October and 5 February, which, as an alternative to the originally proposed October 1st, were declared by the General Assembly of the United Nations as the day of the elderly, marked by the event of the establishment and later accepted by the Slovenian Olympic Committee as an international association. However, the fact is that every single day of the annual calendar marks at least one important mark that alerts the world population to certain problems and memories, so choosing a suitable date for a label is not easy. We have yet another amendment to propose a new holiday date for the parties to the coalition. The first day of autumn for the history of Slovenian sport is extremely important, for the first time in the independent Republic of Slovenia we heard the sounds of Zdravljica in honor of the achievements of Slovenian athletes - we have toasted quite two golden Olympic medals. At the same time, September 23 also coincides with the opening of the largest international recreational project of the European Sports Week aimed at promoting regular physical activity of the population. The setting of the holiday on this day is therefore more than appropriate that Slovenians as a successful sports nation and enthusiastic fans on this day really all together or each other take care of the general All-Slovenian sports movement. In the Desus Group today, we will be happy to support the placement of a new Slovenian holiday in our calendar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments of 17. 6. 2020, published on the e-club. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus and the amendment of the Levica Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? [[Yeah.]] The application shall be made. The first one has the word of his colleague Boštjan Koražija. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u28	Yes, thank you very much. I'd just like to respond to, in fact, all the exposed things that were also in the positions. I am pleased that, in fact, there has been further, after this proposal has been tabled, so many initiatives and proposals for which date would be most appropriate. It seemed kind of right to leave October 1st to the day of the elderly, including the Pensioners' Union of Slovenia turned to us and suggested some other dates. It is good because all the dates proposed are, but the whole species, somehow supported with some empirical data and with some events, which certainly mean the very good things for Slovenian sport and each date proposed, had one solid explanation for it. What the Olympic Committee, as the initiator of this holiday, has pointed out is that, given that this would remain a working day and that the purpose and objectives of the promotion of sport, namely the promotion between all generations, starting with children in kindergarten and then through primary and secondary schools, the promotion of health also in the workplace, with which we have a number of problems and then sports of disabled people and older people, of course on that day special activities adapted to the disabled, adjusted to the elderly, so that, of course, this day would be celebrated, on the one hand, not among some school holidays, but mostly this summer, winter, potatoes, New Year's, any time, and also in the summer, which would be suitable for some external activity. And that is why we are now, why we have somehow now agreed to this, this last initiative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, which is to avoid this first October, of course then the start of the European Week of Sport, i.e. 23 September, which somehow corresponds to all of the criteria or wishes that would help to mark this holiday in the most appropriate way. So the 23rd of September was the last initiative and then, of course, we followed the wishes, as I said, of the Olympic Committee, namely, the wishes of athletes, and if I also read the explanation given by the Olympic Committee for this 23rd of September, as I said, this is the start of the European Sports Week, which takes place on the initiative of the European Commission and is a weekly activity to promote sport and physical activity in Europe, the main theme of this European Sports Week is the slogan “be active”, so be active, and its aim is to encourage all people to do physical activity, so that it is aware that sport is not only a top sport, that it is essentially daily at least half-life to be physically active and these activities are also to be taken into account on this day. Sport and physical activity are important for maintaining health care and contribute to active and healthy ageing. In addition, sport can be a means of social inclusion, the spread of the message of tolerance, the strengthening of citizenship and cohesion, not only in Slovenia, but also with this holiday, but also with the European Week of Sport throughout the European Union, as said from 23 to 30 September, because the first proposal was at the end of this week, which is now the last initiative on 23 September. What does 23rd of September mean for Slovenia, for our sport? On September 23rd, it was Saturday, 2000, a day that will forever be written in the history of Slovenian sport, since then Slovenia won as many as two gold Olympic medals at the Olympic Games in Sidney, first in the middle of that day in a double double win the gold medal of two of our athletes, and then also in the course of the shootout also the same gold medal. So the first two gold Olympic medals for Slovenia alone, so we feel that undoubtedly this date is suitable for a decent observance of the day of Slovenian sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u29	Thank you. A colleague of Bosniak Koražija has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u30	Mr President, thank you for saying so. And I'm just going to get to the debate, or the proponent, or Mrs Janja Slug. Yes, because that is the essence, the essence of our amendment, which we have given to this law, in order to make it a day off, workers and workers are the ones that make the most of our athletes' ability to achieve the results that they achieve and that is top-notch. And from this point of view, I also believe that it is right that these workers and workers deserve this part-time leave, so that they can then actually take part in sports, because the matter is such that you regret that a lot of workers and workers do not want to engage in sports through their work process, but can not, in fact, be proud of their physical and even mental fatigue. And also from the point of view that these working families or children of these working families, including parents, could also devote this day to a particular sport that children are interested in and I know, I am also personally with the pure Halo working family and we all loved sports very much, but many times the problem was that we simply didn't find time to be able to take a look or look as a family, or even to participate in that day, and I know that a lot of talented young children or young people who wanted to participate in a particular sport, but because parents don't have time, often then it stays somewhere else, it would be said, somewhere in the air. And from this point of view, I think it is right that if we are already talking about a sport day, that it should be a sport, and that it should be a free day for sport, if we are talking about promotion and it should not be directed at promoters, especially those who earn the most with these activities, let's say sports activities. So it's about going back to the man, going back to the workers and the workers, getting the chance that, at least that day, they can do it in one way or another, unscathed or even tirelessly. Can I have some please, please, not a little silence. [[…]] [[talking to each other]] And here's the thing that we just have to open up from this point of view, or it's right to support all those who actually always advocate for families and for young families, because I know. I have a lot of friends of young families who have actually warned me about this. Children would like to participate either in a particular club or in a particular sport, but as parents they have no chance to go with them to one-day training, to get to know sports and these things, because the fact is, yes, and the fact is that Slovenians are a sports nation or a sports nation, we have to write this as a plus. [[..]] But it is also true that we are a very working nation, and that we are essentially a nation of workers and workers, and also a lot of these working families, I also think that with Gregor, if I remember your CV at least a little, you could have made sure that you came up with all these options or options that you could have participated in your sport and you had to give up a lot of things, and it is also right that the day when it comes to sports day, that it is also true that workers and workers and even working families in general would have a chance to hang out and participate directly, but not only that it is like a promotion in terms of promoting some, I will say, directly, capitalism, but it is about going back to the essence, to what we are, to the human being, to the family as well as to the family, but also to what people are doing, and I will say, basically what we are doing. Just talk about a matter and then take a picture in front of the cameras that day, and also take a good interview or maybe even remember some good sports results. The fact is also that when we talk about results, every day when a Slovenian athlete reaches a top score, it is in fact a day of sport. That's a fact. And I think we have a lot these days, in a year, because we can really boast about the top results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you very much. My colleague, Joseph Lenart, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that, President. So, the day of Slovenian sport, of course, we are all therefore, as is heard today, among the sports virtues and some concepts necessary for top sports achievements and, of course, top success, but actually include motivation, perseverance, work, team and team spirit, competition, again, work, then success can come. Thus, experts mention about 100 characteristics, character traits, for those who have actually achieved great sporting achievements, namely talent, self-discipline, communication, commitment, confidence, honesty, flexibility, determination and again, work. But when success comes, we all know that then, too, the promotion of their people comes, there is also the raising of national consciousness and, of course, welcome to our youth, that they are more and more aware, sports, active, moving and of course working. This recreational and amateur sport, especially youth sports, is particularly important, I mean school sports activities, as well as leisure sports. In fact, it is a healthy upbringing of children and adolescents, as well as education, for a healthy life in the future. So, this addition to the Holidays and Work Act is certainly welcome. I support and also support the Slovenian Democratic Party and then, given that more opinions have been given, which date would be the most appropriate, I think we have more – what already – different views and that it is not very important if I now touch this 23rd September, when the Slovenian flag in Sydney, played the Slovenian anthem, twice when the East of Chop and Luke of Spik, and then Raymond Debevec, actually won, for the first time in Slovenia alone, but I think this is really one of the most appropriate. [[…]] So, this amendment, the SDS, New Slovenia, the Modern Centre and Desus, we also support and, of course, we want all athletes and also recreationals, excellent activity on 23 September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I really didn't mean to come over because if there's anything I'm not, frankly, I'm not really an athlete, I'm just a pub with a village. Even when we were children and young people were going to dig on Kolpo, the older generations were looking at us, that it was almost blasphemous because he was working in the village, working, working, and resting a little. Now, what's bothering me? Do you know, a nation warring the nation must also be aware of its history or, in recent times, say “history”. But there is a sport if you lived in a more urban environment, although I'm not motorized, which I'd like to deal with very much, is a gentlemen's sport, I don't know if the name Rudolf Cvetko means anything to you. In 1912 Rudolf Cvetko won the first Olympic medal in Stockholm, which was a silver medal as a member of the Austrian team in sabering. If the memory doesn't bother me, then he beat Hungary. Maybe that doesn't suit anybody, a little joke, a little joke. [[…]] And I would expect from the Olympic Committee if politics wasn't so smart that it thought the world had started, maybe with John or alone, not that the Olympic Committees would have that thought and watch if we were already tying it to the Olympic dimension of sport, when we put it in. I went to see a little bit. He didn't put Google in my gear. The date was then, 1912, no. But, you know, I'm sorry, but it seems a little crazy to me, with all due respect to all three Olympics who won the gold medal, who are all three really garages, and even in their general culture, parliamentarians could follow them, no, I mean the rowing couple and the famous shooter, no, but I think, no, here probably even Tina Hribar would agree with me if we thought like a nation, we should not forget Rudolph Flower, no. And I thought that's what the SNS would say, because here we are with the Victory, even though he's suing me right now, no, not with knowledge of some historical dimensions, no. If we come back, this sport of ours as a Social Democrat, no, of course I'm rooting for another also for Liverpool, no, “you will never walk alone”, a very beautiful anthem, a cheerleader, no, but to me in Maribor with the fall's favorite, frankly speaking, no, sometimes I was also a Dynam fan, no, but in the days before, in front of Gregor. The fact is that today children, children, you talk, sport means money, not if we really are for this, but you know, beyond this political mental health care, the tumults are only on Facebook, but also the Prime Minister is mainly on Twitter, no, let's give as a state the opportunity to enable this youth to engage in sport. Many of the rurals, of course, didn't have the opportunity, you know, I was in my teens from 10 years until I was in the army, but I did almost motor sport, Kariole I was driving, Johi Milani Johi, this is on the Croatian side, peso for pigs and similar things, and similar things, not. Let us make it possible, regardless of what we say in the White Landscape, “whom you are”, not that you can do sports, not. Huge, but you know, not the kind of wet dreams parents have, no. Parents have veteran leagues, if they're not anything, let them work there, no. Then there is another dimension, where I am quite lonely and Scandinavian in the Slovenian space, professional sport is of course garage and often you get such or other disabilities, as a result. And it's no coincidence, let's say that the Scandinavian countries have been trying to curb competition at least up to the age of 16, not even in what kind of country they've had a discussion that, as a result, they're not as good at jumping, not if I touch Nordic disciplines, but I think it's also some serious, serious debate that we should start. Allow citizens and citizens to engage in sports, no matter how much money they have. You know, even when you mentioned this information that 80% of people are involved in recreation, if they went to take these analyses seriously, they'd find that it's not like that, in this methodology, there's also what's called frequent gardening, not that some people are doing because of the emergency, but because pensions are what they are. You know, it's something, something to think about, no, and I agree with that, yes, sport is also a civil, civil religion, no, it's Marjan Rožanc, by which is called the Slovenian essayist award, sports official, sports worker, politician, one of the better essayists, wrote, when, in the old regime, perhaps to whom it doesn't fit, no. Now, of course, I'm going to refer to the government and you and all that pretty talk I've been listening to today, OK, what we're going to do to the politicians, so anyone who wants to do sports can do sports, no. And we can go look at sports infrastructure, where we can find a way to cover, in particular, sports infrastructure and access to it, no, these are some things, beyond this symbolic level, which I welcome here, which we will have to deal with, not. But personally, when I listened to this, maybe someone was upset that that first date was connected to the South Falcons, no, on a political level. Not to me, because the Ducks are originally Czech and I wish this date had stayed. I'm gonna stop at this point because I'm not an athlete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aljaž Kovacic, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! If, unlike my colleague, Duck, I am an athlete, but with the vast majority of matters he mentioned, I also agree, and here I will also mention them with regard to Mr Rudolph Cvetk. Now we need to be aware of what some public holidays are and work days off is said to remind ourselves in some symbolic way of some important matters and I do not agree that it is said to be holidays, that it means something that many people in Slovenia say: “The good thing is that we are at home for a holiday.” It is said that we have to learn the holiday is meant to respect some event but not to be at home or not and that every holiday has a historical record from behind and it doesn’t matter if you’re home that day or not, it’s important that you remember those events and that you mark them in one way or another. I am pleased that we have come to the point that today we hope to accept the day of Slovenian sport on the one hand as a gift to all the top results that we have achieved as a nation and also as a reminder to all that sport is something very important being said to be a sport movement for some healthy way of life. Now that I am glad, on the one hand, that I hope to accept this sport today, on the other hand, I am a little sad that there is so much talk about this date when and how it will be. The fact is, any date they took from 365 or from 366 days could find some historical connection. First we had this October 1st, as already mentioned, where I think that in 1863 the first gymnasium was on the Slovenian Southern Falcon, then we changed into October 15th, when the Olympic Committee was stopped, then I think the proposal was that on February 5th, when the Olympic Committee was accepted as the International Olympic Committee is called Slovenia and today we have this 23rd September, when we won the first three gold Olympic medals, which is called the Republic of Slovenia. As the predecessors have already said, there are more of these dates on which you could lean, as Mr Rudolf Cvetko of 1912 mentioned, the first Slovenian with an Olympic medal as well, then the legendary Leon Stukelj is not as important a date as the very purpose of why we accepted this date. As I have already said on the one hand as a gift to all the top results on the other, and also to a reminder of how important the movement is. I've been in sports all my life, and lately I've been in sports high school, and later I've been working as a coach, and I actually know sports very well, and also as a professor I've been watching how this movement actually went back, how these charts of this sports card with regard to the results are no longer what it was sometimes that couldn't be any harder to do, and it's actually very sad. It's very possible to compare past times with today's, but I don't know what two very good basketball players are doing. At one stop of the legendary Ivo Dane and on the other side of the current Luke Dončič, who in their time were both top basketball players at the very top, we see what a difference in sport was made by some capitalism a desire for finance also brought with it all. This day of Slovenian sport I wish that, even as a nation, we would urge citizens to have a healthy sport, it is said, this desire for success and doping itself, which is too often spoken about in the public about what actual doping means in sport as coaches actually rape their athletes many times with this desire for success, what this will bring them. Then, as a coach, I saw that a lot of bad, unfortunately, athletes are also made by parents who convince them how they will succeed, but we know how small percentages succeed in becoming top athletes. But as my colleague Trček said, top sports also have great consequences on the body. I know a lot of athletes who can't actually move or walk today at the age of 40. Therefore, we need to be careful how we present sport to young people, that it is not just about success. I know very well, as mentioned, the Scandinavian model, where the younger categories in sport do not have any formal competitions at all, says it, is a game, but there are no ladders to be some state champions at the end of the year; this is now perhaps a more sociological question of what is good for some development. I'm very competitive myself, and wherever I go, I like to compete, and maybe I can't imagine what that would mean if there wasn't a scale at the end; but that might be a broader question. The fact is, if today we legalize this holiday, the day of Slovenian sport, it will not help Slovenian sport to grow or develop with a single percentage. Many times, or almost always, the country forgets about sport mainly because of these excellent results, it has never seen any need to invest in sport. In Slovenia we have about three levels of sport. Most people do amateur sports. You don't need much money. I think that after most Slovene municipalities it is very well taken care of for sports facilities, we have football, basketball courts, also track courses, you can finally go to the nature of the course, and I think that all of this is quite well taken care of. On the other hand, we have a professional sport, which is very cruel, and we may not see how much these top athletes have to invest in being able to succeed. We see only those who actually come to television as top athletes who have a lot of sponsors. What I'm saying is, we can't throw all the top athletes in the same basket. Some top football player, basketball player or biker with sponsors earns a lot because these sports are also very well watched and through television shows comes a lot of money. It is interesting that the 23rd September proposed by the coalition is the day when we received three Olympic medals, which is rowing and shooting, when sports that are not so interesting are not so interesting, and I doubt that these three athletes have earned so much through their results that they can live today so that they do not have to work anymore or that they could lie somewhere on the Maldives. It is said that some interest in sport and watching is not a success, but that then all these athletes are actually as rich as we see some of these most famous when they sign million contracts. The third issue is Slovenian clubs, most of which can be said to be with two, three exceptions more than semi-professional, based or surviving on all volunteers operating in these places and with sponsors, which some local environment contributes to these clubs. We know that it has already been very difficult for these sports groups to survive. Now that the economic crisis is forecast, companies themselves will cut their spending wherever it is most easily or needlessly, it is also said, to some sponsors in some local clubs. And here I am deeply saddened that in all these mega laws, where we have devoted billions of dollars, we have not taken care of these clubs, which will be very difficult to survive. And we know that in these local environments, a lot of young people are involved in various sports. And this is where I want the government to be obedient to these collectives, because we can miss many generations here that will no longer have to return. 'Cause we know if you're 25, 30 years old, I don't know, you're gonna start doing handball work, you're probably gonna have a little chance of success. We're all kind of passionate fans of different sports. However, I wish that there was more of this healthy rivalry between sports and that we have outgrown various hooligans when we can see in the past and also in the present where we can see on television.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My colleague Primož Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Good afternoon! Let me define myself, as I have done in the introduction to the presentation of the position on the law and also present this part of our amendment. Which, or perhaps first, in the spirit of all my predecessors to mark my qualifications, I also have outstanding sports results. In elementary school, I'd be a state champion for 400 cows, that's all. As far as the content of this law is concerned. The date is essentially a completely plausible thing here. And we don't care more or less about the Left Party. We welcome the idea that this is not October 1st, because it makes sense to devote ourselves then to the day of the elderly, to this pressing issue. But everything else, with the current arrangement or with the current proposal, we find that it matters more or less. Why? The holiday of sport, or any holiday that we want to mark in concrete terms, as our amendment says, must be a day off, or it must be a declaration, a protocol thing in which politicians will mainly be setting up photographers, posting state flags on their Facebook profiles, congratulating them and congratulating those, but in fact for those who congratulate him they have done nothing. They did nothing for a professional athlete, did nothing for a lover or recreational athlete. The main objective of the policy is to provide first the social pillow, work, freedom of opportunity for culture, to carry out sports activities for all, workers, sellers, employees in nursing homes, including professional athletes. But the reality of Slovenian politics in relation to sport today is, for example, I don't know, two years ago I read how Ilka Šutec must bite from season to season, which is an icon of Slovenian skiing. And it has to have, I don't know, a mother or someone from a family, a mother from a family, to spit out that even her team is functional. [[…]] Where's the politics? Where's the country? And what will such an athlete do when he retires? Where's the country? Let's have a sport day with the flag, and congratulations on how much we support sport. What is reality? The reality is that the current government coalition in the previous or other previous, third versus the crown package said this: if the worker will be given a certain quarantine, he will agree to 50% of his monthly “income”, including one sports education professor, for example. We in the Left Group have proposed that this thing return to its initial level of 80%, that this teacher of sports education will not rise, that the state will not order him to live in poverty, and that the government coalition has overtaken our proposal. This is the reality of Slovenian policy towards sport, to the key issues which the policy has jurisdiction over. We stand very firmly in the position that if we have a holiday, if we want every citizen of Slovenia to celebrate such a holiday as is necessary to follow the purpose of the holiday, this holiday must be a work day. Therefore, the argument that, I don't know, the economy will collapse, as we have heard in the introductions, that we can't afford this failure, reminds me more of the testimony of capital representatives from 100 years ago or 150 years ago. When labor rights fighters fought for the weekend, for the weekend, something that today is at least about self-evident when they fought for an eight-hour worker, when they fought for children not to work, when they fought for at least some of these basic labour rights with the same arguments today, when we propose one extra day off, when a person can rest or go to the hills or bike, whatever, they want to engage recreationally when we propose the same arguments by the economy or by capital. No, you can't, you can't one day. Although we know that every calendar is real, we have a holiday list, a holiday list that is open every year is different. Each year is a little more than one day, a little more a year, but one year that holiday falls on Sunday or not, or whatever. Therefore, there is no argument in the title of labour rights here why. There is no argument from the title of the economy why this day would not be a day off. From the title of the label or, to say the least, thank you for Slovenian sport, from the title, from the political side, not at all. That is why we are also introductory, and I will once again propose that the organizers of sports events, the operators of sports infrastructure at this point decide and follow colleagues from the cultural sector and on the day of sport, whatever the door opens and offer their services free of charge, their infrastructure so that everyone can benefit from this, regardless of their social or financial situation. In the final stage, I was looking at the price list of one swimming pool in Ljubljana, one day swimming there costs 8 euros and a half. This is not something one worker on a minimum wage could just afford and it is also one such day perhaps means a lot. But first, this worker must have time to get there and swim those 400 cows or go there with his family and get high with the kids or whatever. Basically, if Slovenian politics really wants Slovenia's sport of whose fame we have heard today for long and wide, it really unites society, then it has to provide it with this basic predisposition, and that is that we have time to take it, otherwise the day of sport will be able to be marked with dignity only by someone who is in a management function and does it with his schedule and will say, "But today I can go to the hills, I will go and plan a week so that it will go through, someone who works for him who creates profit will not be able to do so because it will have to be from six to two on the chess. So our amendment, respected colleagues and colleagues, is very simple, says that the day of Slovenian sport, which we will not oppose, must be a day off, as it is said, there are no arguments, there are no economics, there are no social ones going against it, so Members and Members I call on us to follow the real purpose of doing good for, at the end of the stage, people that they will not have, that they will not have, from the day forward, only have politics with their pyar benefits, but every citizen and citizen of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is from colleague Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. A healthy spirit in a healthy body has already been said here today, but perhaps a little wider what it means. Unfortunately, all of us, as well as myself, are not aware of this at least in some healthy age and when a disease occurs, when doctors tell you that regular physical activity can improve the possibility of relapse by 50%, imagine what you were doing when you were young, what you were doing at some age of maturity and what you wanted and how you wanted to live in the future. I must say, I support the Slovenians getting a day of sports. Which day is more appropriate, of course, the possibility of discussion as it has already been, I know that the Olympic Committee of Slovenia wanted this to be October 1st, which could be combined with the elderly, but I think it is right that the older have their day, their day, and of course also an event for the third life period and that this overlap is too much, then, “made”, both one and the other event. [[…]] Today, of course, it has been said that it is necessary to consider, some want to possess this work day off. It was all said that parents couldn't do it with a child for training and so on. Let me tell you what it looks like in practice or in our family. At the beginning of the school year, sometime until 14 September, children have the opportunity to join various sports activities that are part of the primary school or outside the primary school, it is said, interesting activities – from archery, bowling, basketball, cycling, ski club, ping pong – could be listed here, indeed everything. [[…]] And, children also have the opportunity to participate in the presentation of this sport in the afternoon. Now that it would be September 23rd, working the day off, it seems to me that it is a little too late to be that parents can see sports, of course they can see it, but from experience I say that by September 23rd, the groups are already forming and are practically starting with training, both football and everyone else. So I think we really need to understand how sports activities are going. Also, I will say, a sport for the elderly or a sport for health, which, I must say, is very successful, I think it is also under the auspices of the Sokol Association and the ZDUS and, of course, the local community, as the funding community, is doing very well, a sport for health. That these groups, which have been formed from the beginning, are formed immediately in September and then carried out smoothly. Of course, the possibility is still, the arrival or departure from such a group, however, even in sports, is the order and discipline of exceptional importance and order and discipline also allow today's top athletes to come from the countryside as well. Sometimes practically, that, that almost didn't happen. There were larger centres, which were where certain sports took place, but now, I must say that if the family is ready and, if they have, I will say, a child with talent, of course a financial supply is needed, there is a great deal of willingness to quit, and there is also a great sport and I am proud to have a hockey player Jan Urbans in the Valley village, at Cerknica. It is said that there can also be a great sport in the countryside. Sports are not only about strengthening the body, but also about strengthening the spirit. They say that sport is an antidepressant, an antidepressant, and I feel that it is also necessary to accept it and have a relationship with it. The European Week of Sport begins, as the proponent said, on September 23rd, and I think it is crucial that we, as part of the European family, are included in this promotion and in this awareness. Knowing that there is a healthy way, one of the conditions, to achieve a healthy and quality age, does not come overnight, but it is probably necessary to build here year after year and people to realize how important it is that sport is important and that sport is also organized quality, I must say that today follows back that we have also adopted the Sport Act in this National Assembly of 14 days, 3 weeks ago. The Sports Act, which actually speaks about the fact that records, which are, of course, also publicly available, also include all trainers and also top athletes, which means that it is necessary to have a license, also needs to be qualified for a trainer, I will say, maybe some functional exercises somewhere smaller in the countryside. This seems to me to be a great advance and today's law follows only that we can all give greater meaning together. In life it is so, you can't force anyone to engage in sports, not even a child, it seems to me that the decision is on the side of the family, as far as the child is concerned, or later on every individual and someone decides to sport, because it is possible for a sport to be more talented, someone is designated as a different kind, perhaps music, theatre, ballet. So I think it's right that no one under any compulsion is forced into anything, but that the matter remains open to each individual and that everyone decides how to work. Once again, I think it is necessary to stress that strengthening health, both physical and mental, is a condition for healthy age. Perhaps our elders in the past did not devote so much or older, and in the past also physical exercise, I come from the countryside alone, there was mainly farming work, as colleague Trček said, but it seems to me that this awareness is coming to the countryside today. Today, however, it was said that, otherwise by a colleague everything was imposed on how to make children work and so on, something disturbed me, not at the time of capitalism. I've been hearing this in this National Assembly for quite a month now. Yeah, if someone goes into quarantine that 50% of his recognized payback. That's true, but it's been 20 years since the Labour Relations Act, the U.S.A. Not PKP 3 or PKP 2 or PKP 1. No, no, no. The Labour Relations Act provides that, of course, if we look at it, change it, yes, correct it, but this is what the Labour Relations Act has laid down for 20 years now, you have not discovered it. Of course, this has become more clear or crystallized because of this crown of the epidemic. I wish that our children could really grow up in some healthy environment, in an environment where they would be united, that we need to take care of a healthy body, a healthy spirit and that we need [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] take care of their safety, safety. [[…]] And non-exclusion. I think this is the work of all of us, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have to respond to the implementation of Commissioner Dimic, now so, two things, first of all, the child's work is a historical fact, this cruelest time frame of capitalism has in the past, and, hand to heart, somewhere else, after some ends of the world today, has pushed children into work, even with us decades or centuries ago. So it's not some empty crowd. And the other thing about the sports education professor I mentioned, who could have been ordered by the government to quarantine him and reimbursed 50 percent of his income, is true. It is also true that such a regulation needs to be amended, and the amendment to such a regulation has been proposed in Levica with the amendment to the third anti-Korona package, by which we said, ok, let us give such a man the same right as the unawaited one and have 80 per cent of the drawback covered, but you have rejected this proposal by your colleagues and colleagues of the government coalition, so now we can hear the mantras need to change it, it has to be changed in practice has proved to be in communication with the government coalition otherwise that this is not the only one who wants to change it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. She's the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u44	Yes, this debate is now a picture of this Parliament. I was really hoping when I selected these words in the opening address, which I chose, that we would also be united in this sport house, and that we would not be using today's debate for some politicalization for some eyewitnesses, which do not have some direct connection with the holiday of Slovenian sport, but that we would be able to at least once in the debate a united position the athletes proposed this day, but the athletes deserve this day, and let us also support the athletes this day, not least to ourselves, but I will now comment on what has been further exposed not in the spirit of giving everyone the mind but in the spirit of going back to this basic initiative, which is an initiative of athletes and we stop with the contents that separate us again by our old custom. So, about whether this day would be a day off. We in the SMC as proponents have never, never in any debate in any position, mentioned the reasons as if this was not part of a free day of reason, because of the economy never. That wasn't our argument. If that was anyone else's argument, okay, but that wasn't our argument. Why not? Because we have fully followed what the Olympic Committee of Slovenia has proposed. The Olympic Committee of Slovenia wrote down the following: "The initiative contains a proposal for kindergartens and educational institutions to organise sports days on this day and a proposal for companies to organise teambuildings, promotional movement workshops or lectures on the importance of physical activity for employees. Professional sports workers and volunteers could visit homes for pensioners on this day and awaken memories of youth, association and connection in them with appropriate physical activity.” The goal, the Olympic Committee's goal, is this particular sport for every day. To find the time every day with every effort by the other, with each activity how to place sport at the daily level in its usual work activities and therefore they have proposed as they have proposed and we have fully followed what the Olympic Committee has proposed. Nevertheless, we also have this table with the number of holidays. At this point, Slovenia has a total number of holidays, which are open on 15 days and which are at the summit of countries in the European Union, not that I want to say anything with this information just so that it will not be misinterpreted, then in the end. But there's something else I'd like to say. There has been a lot of evidence of what policy will be, what this country will do for athletes. I agree that we could do much more for them, but I do not agree that this country does nothing. I have told home also on the board four categorized athletes, four out of three different sports and I know how much this country spends on these athletes. We cannot say that the state does absolutely nothing. It is true that in recent years there have been too many payouts in sports societies and so on, but these practices are replaced by the remaining sponsoring funds, not those left behind as state funds. The sportsmen are given the money of the local community - just this morning I saw the call again in our municipality, how much funding has been allocated to any sports society in the municipality - the sportsmen are given money by the ministry, the Sports Foundation, the Olympic Committees and so on. It's not like we don't do anything for them. However, the disability is the part that actually replaces what I said, the funding that is falling out, and it also decreases because of the current situation. And these are those steps, where there is certainly still an empty space where you need to step together - to step together again - and go across the street. Today we are going to talk about another topic that the Olympic Committee has also proposed as an incentive, as some kind of help in the operation of sports societies, especially in the training and sports of our young man - and I hope that you will support it - and this is the abolition of tachographs. Today we will vote on the Road Traffic Rules Act, for which he has taken the initiative, in addition to firefighters, also the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, and he said how burdensome this issue is for smaller sports companies, what problems they have with transporting children to competitions. I also have my own experience, as I said, a local basketball club, a little less local because it is on the other end of Slovenia, and the cycling club is one of the biggest clubs or, I can say, the biggest cycling club in Slovenia has problems. And that's definitely something we can do for our athletes. I'll finish here. And I'm just going to appeal to you - come on, let's at least not politicize this time and follow what the athletes have proposed. The athletes proposed the day of Slovenian sport. Of all the possible dates that the politicians imposed on Prešeren, the athletes then proposed on September 23rd, and I really appeal to you to support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u45	Thank you very much. How many more wishes after the debate? Crossing the list, reports are under way. The first one has the word of a colleague Jani Prednik. [[advertising from the hall]] Proposer, colleague of the Jews.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it's time for me to come over as one of the candidates or the first to sign. Maybe we don't understand the big difference between professional sports and sports for everyone. Yes, sport for everyone is in trouble, and professional sport is in even greater trouble, probably because of funding and all. But today is not a topic, today is only a day of Slovenian sport, and I hope that we will revolve around it. The topic that some people throw forward is just another thing about financing this sport. But we can't do it without sports for everyone, because it also makes professional athletes. So let's just let it go, and we'll talk about it another time. But there is one thing - only a handful of athletes succeeds in top sports. And we all see only those professional athletes who earn a lot of money, and we forget those who may have invested even more in their sports career, but in the end they have failed and they can also have social problems; and this is also possible for another time. I am pleased that we all support this day of Slovenian sport. I thought this date would be a little easier, but I can see that we don't really understand this or know it. And I personally believe that the Olympic Committee has given a good thought to what date it proposes and I would still like to return to that October 1st, but if it isn't, I also agree with this September 23rd and I will gladly support it. The date is absolutely important, for this would enable all to celebrate that date or day. As a result, I will say, I will also respond to the proposal of the Left. Yeah, it'd be nice to have a day off, but I don't know if that's feasible in the real world. We already have major financial problems, and probably this day would be extra, but it will probably come to the attention of everyone that this day is dedicated to sport, and somehow, I will say that I see in kindergartens that they will start referring children to sport. In schools they organize sports days where they will be reinstated for sport. This is said to be the work of these team building and some sports games. I hope you know that, in the world, this is very familiar, and I myself have participated in one of these with DHL, where six or seven thousand people have been gathered from all over Europe and the company has also supported it. During their third life span, it was these people who were in their homes or at the part where they were no longer so active that they were still aware that they had to be active. Because that means a lot to their health, so that's it. [[…]] Now I'm just in the end, I'm not a politician, and I'm probably never gonna be a politician. But I will be a sports official perhaps, as I would say, related to this, I will stand up for the sport in this temple of democracy, and I hope that everyone else will help me here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. My colleague Jani Prednik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u48	President, thank you. Yes, here I am, just going to continue where my fellow Jew stopped. Here I can say that I agree with colleague Ivo Dimic, who said that athletes who come from smaller places can succeed, as well as with fellow Servant in one part I agree, in one part I disagree and I will count the Korean athletes and you will see that even from the most peripheral places can come the most excellent athletes. I hope that those whom I will let go will not resent me, but also let this be an encouragement to all others who do not necessarily come from Ljubljana, Maribor, Kranj and from larger cities to succeed. Like, skiers, Tina Maze, we all know the gold Olympic medal. Then there's Mitja Kunc, who was third in the World Cup coming from Kotel. That's where I live. Then we have Aleša Gorzo and football players like Robi Koren, Makor Šuler and currently Bezjak. Then we have the swimmers Damir Dugonjić, Tjasho Oder, the climber Janjo Gernbret, the world's multiple champion. Tina Urnaut's volleyball team and Klemen Bebulj, both coming from Kotel. That's from where I live, and it's not a big place. This goes as a confirmation of what Iva Dimic said. As for what Janja Sluga said, that the state something yes, I would agree to something yes, but all these athletes did not become Olympic champions, world champions, European champions for the country. Also, in all 30 years, the sport policy has done almost nothing. We all have to be so self-critical that we all like to brag, we all like to go to receptions. I, for example, go to all the games of basketball, handball, football, I've walked before and I'm walking now. I didn't change my course of action when I joined this National Assembly. In short, let what I have said also be an encouragement to all other young people who want to engage in sports. I have even one thesis that those athletes or those young people who come from the outskirts of the country may be even more successful than those who come from larger cities because those who come from the outskirts are absolutely nothing gifted. Thus, sports infrastructure is slightly worse than in larger cities, even finances are much more distorted than in larger cities, and this is not to be said for those who come from larger cities, but I just want to show that we are people who come from the outskirts or deal with sports, politics or anything else, especially more persistent and even more stubborn. That's why I would suggest to all young people that they do sports. Not necessarily, with professional, can also be recreational. In fact, the present times are such that we are all better off on the phone and on the computer than in nature, and I would use this debate more in this direction, not for some politics around when this day will not be. I don't really care if it's September 23rd or October 1st. As it is said, the sport policy has done nothing and let us at least do it today, give them this day, this state holiday, as far as financing is concerned, and I hope that the whole policy will also devote more to sport in the future, because if the country devotes more to sport, then it will be easier for the athletes and we will be able to do so, even for the politicians, I will say, with a lighter heart, and with them we will take a more just picture than we do or some people are doing it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. My colleague Primož Siter has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm the proposer, first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you. I have to respond anyway, because apparently my colleague Prednik misunderstood me – I never said that any athlete became a champion because of the state. I never said that, and I'll never say that. However, it is necessary to be correct, it is necessary to be fair and must be said, for the first time; for some sports this country devotes a lot, these are those sports that are more popular, which are more media-accompanied, these are the names of those you have listed now, but there are sports, sports and athletes who are also as successful, some even more successful, and no one knows them, and not only that no one knows them, nor does the country devote almost nothing to those. So there are very, very big differences between them. In some sports, in fact, everyone can train them, but there is no need to contribute because everything is “financed”. I'm talking about some representations, I'm talking about some training, and so on, for which we really don't have to give anything. I have a world-class athlete at home, who is the winner of two silver medals of the world championships, who is the winner of two gold medals from European championships, which is the winner of the world Cup, which is the winner of three world records, and no one knows him, because it is a sector that is not accompanied. I'm talking about the accuracy of the landing with the paragliding parachutes. You don't know. He's the best in this discipline in the world. Slovenia is a world ruler in this discipline. I am talking about these differences because I know this very well and in this sport there are 30 countries from around the world, not 12, as far as possible, I don't know, either in skiing or in jumping or in some of the sports that we are watching more, but they are more media-recognizable. That's all I'd like to say, well, because we've really gone down, but that wasn't my purpose, and I wish we hadn't done that, and I'd like to say that today our debate is a gift to Slovenian sport, and that we are united in supporting this holiday, which they themselves have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. My colleague Primož Siter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Let me respond to some of the performances that were essentially replicas of what we suggested or reported. Now, the essence of all that is left in Levi, with this amendment that says that the day of sports should be free to work day, we suggest, is yes or is, that we give sport what belongs to it. No political floss, no one to say pure magic, but let's give sport what belongs to it. Let us give professional athletes safe employment - I know that we will not save this law - and let us give recreationals enough time to be athletes on some recreational basis. That's always a matter of policy. The social situation of citizens and citizens is a matter of policy, a matter of political decision. And I see no problem in having a political debate in one of the main political institutions. Now, the purpose of the law or this holiday is to encourage mass participation in sports and recreational events, and to offer an opportunity for people to socialize, to reflect concerns and to have a good time in sports, which is a key element of recreation. Our amendment follows all of this, opens the door to actually realizing that people can actually go out and have a good time, socializing with people. As far as the content opposition is concerned, I will not point my finger at anyone, and he will be insulted at our explanation of why we say that work is a day off and in connection with this, the reaction of the economy that this cannot be done because it would cause more damage. Now, it is stated in the bill that the day of sport is not a day of work because, otherwise, it would mean a higher cost of work, working free day, because it would mean a reduction of competitiveness. So the text of the bill says that this must still be a working day, because otherwise the economy would collapse. My previous arguments were clear, however, that because of one day, which might not even be one additional part of the day off, the economy cannot and must not collapse at the age we are. The task of politics, I repeat my starting point, is first to ensure prosperity for all, whether they are workers who are recreationally engaged in sport or they are professional athletes and one step, I am aware that a small but safe step is to make sport day, if we want to mark it properly, a day off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word has Lydia Divac Mirnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings from a respected secretary of state, colleagues, colleagues! We've said a lot today. I'm gonna try to be very short. I don't have much time. It is important that we get Slovenian Sports Day, now in the List of Marjan Šarca we do not have so many problems with the date, we follow the athletes because they are our ambassadors and they are the ones who advertise Slovenia. It is also necessary to be aware of this. Otherwise, it would be nice to have this one day when there will be students in college, but okay, even with September 23, we don't have a problem, the main thing is to celebrate, and to actively survive that day. Now, something was said about the problem of sports infrastructure. We also have a few problems in Maribor with this problem, especially with renovations, because something always comes in. Of course, there is not enough money in the interim budget and there is always something in between, so we still have the unrenovated Tabor Hall, so we still have problems in the Portan bath, well, these are also operators quite guilty, but let us leave. And the Maribor hippodrome, which you probably don't even know, is quite problematic. However, we have begun to rebuild the Western Tribune of the Human Garden, and that is probably what you all know, which I am very pleased with. I would like the country here to have more hearing about the restoration of sport infrastructure, especially those that need to be restored over time and also because of the new criteria that are present in a particular sport. Maribor has given a lot of athletes, and I can't list them, because they really are huge, and that goes first and foremost to the congregation so to the state, and especially to parents and athletes, because they are the ones who do it. But it is true that if there is no such denial of parents, then there would be no such thing as a fine example is Ilka Štuhec, a very plastic example of what it means to be afraid of still giving up and living for a child to be successful in sports. But here, as far as top athletes are concerned, there is a real problem in Slovenia, namely, for athletes who stop their careers, we forget about Slovenia. If they were lucky enough to be in an interesting sport, they deserved to live on, if not, and forget about them, and I think that's something that needs to be done in the policy notes. In foreign lands, we know cases where athletes make money or, I don't know, Olympic medal winners or whatever they get a so-called pension. I see no reason not to do this in Slovenia. We once had a fund for professional athletes, but, I think, with MIŠŠ, but somehow it didn't come to life, so this is something that we still have to work out, or we don't have representatives of the MišŠ here, but it would be nice to hear it because, I don't know, the case of the Jewish man Michael Žganka, if you know him, he went to Turkey, took over Turkish citizenship, even under another name of performance, because in Turkey the Jews can survive, but not in Slovenia. So we still have a lot of work to do here, and I also agree with Primo Sitar, that the country is the one that has to work this out, even if we evaluate all this promotion that athletes do for us and OK. Now in our family we are athletes, because it is important that the children in the family learn this, I am also a former athlete myself, but it is interesting to me that now that I go to gyms, to these group exercises, and there I am retired. I like this "ful" and you won't believe it, some of the ladies in their own [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] In the 1970s and over, they are very flexible, and I want to say that the example is very important in the family and I want to give it to my children. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Now, as far as it goes, in what way the movement of life helps, even so that we have less investment in health, because if you are moving, then you are not such a quick health problem, or just, definitely helps, as Iva also talked about. And maybe that's the only way to end it. [[…]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] in Maribor we were European, European city of sport 2018, also this year we will have a sports spring and politely invite you to join us all day, the entire Maribor sport, thank you very much. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u56	Yes, thank you very much for your word. Maribor is to continue, Maribor is really a city of sport, we have a sports weekend of the city, now I do not know if it will be organised this year if it will be the end of September, but it is in fact a day of sport, a holiday of sport, which we are now legislating a message to the inhabitants that sport is healthy and in fact also one, not only a message to the inhabitants, but also in fact one sign of attention to sports workers and our athletes. As a society, we must advocate that sport be accessible to as many people as possible, that is, to children as to active generations as to older generations, it is necessary for us as a country to allow people, our citizens with sport, to engage in all life periods. And this, I think, is the main message, sport must be accessible, sports infrastructure must be suitable for this, and we must also work as a country and also as a local community. We're also talking about professional athletes, their careers after the end. This is very important for those who then opt for professional sport to also be properly trained and have a profession. I think that messages, like that now I'm going to be a successful athlete, and in five years I'm going to earn enough for life are not the right messages and that's not the real message that we want to send from this National Assembly through screens to our viewers, let's just look at our Olympics Leon Stukl, he's a lawyer by profession and he's got a profession and that's basically something that we have to aspire to. Let's also look at other athletes – Mrs. Sara Isaković, also a student, I will also say, Franci Petka, a jumper, a doctor of science and this is a message that we must send to young people, that they should be involved in sports, and at the same time make sure that they have an adequate education, that even when their career ends or, therefore, ends up in the event of an early event, because of accidents or perhaps also because they are not successful enough in sport, they will have a covered existence and I think that this is the case, this is the message that must come from this National Assembly, even in the light of the fact that sport is “pluralized” and that it remains or becomes accessible to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Replica has a Mr. Jew. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u58	I would just add what Mr Reich has said that they have already done something for this school, and at least in this secondary or primary and secondary school, they have sports classes or sports status. I would like this to continue, perhaps with even a little greater measure, and that really athletes would achieve an education that could be crucial to survival. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jurša has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u60	Vice President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall. Now, we are actually talking about the Holidays and Work Act today. I'm not stressing this because we wouldn't know it, but it's in the debate that we feel we're talking about the Sports Act. No, specifically about the sports festival. And of course, given that Slovenian athletes, professional, achieve excellent results, there is no problem in choosing the day when Slovenian sport should be given. Some things got complicated here. I will say this very briefly, and of course, given that we were also one of those who just proposed some solutions, but not to ourselves, but to politicians, but we said that it must be decided by sports organisations, athletes and, of course, sports officials. I understand sport like that amateur, recreational part, and on the other hand, professional. And, our athletes, to the number of inhabitants, achieve extraordinary results. In our time, Slovenians were celebrated as a nation of winter sports.Our athletes proved more and today we can say that we are also a nation of other sports. You know what bothers me terribly is that some of you are politically trying to show this today and say that you are speaking as if you are not part of politics. All of us sitting here are part of politics, Slovenian, and we cannot be excluded, and when it suits us, we are Members, but when it does not suit us, we are not part of Slovenian politics. Now, I was saying a little earlier that we influenced the search for options and new solutions for the date of Slovenian sport. For us, the problem was that on October 1st, the General Assembly of the United Nations, declared itself the day of the elderly, and then we suggested to the athletes that new variants should be sought and that new variants should appear – October 15th, February 5th, and finally, of course, 23. 9. 23. 9. We achieved the first high score or medals, our heart played when we heard the Slovenian anthem and, of course, this is not the only thing, but we also have a week of European sport or European sports week. And that date was suggested by athletes, so we agreed with it, and we're happy to understand that on October 1st it's what it is and that we have 23. 9. Since athletes wanted mainly a period of the year when they could also carry out activities outside, it is said on sports facilities outside the covered roof. It is not true that in politics we have never looked for athletes. Slovenia, on the other hand, also contributes to sport. Anyway, I wish it were more than it is, but we need to understand some reality. I have been following the sport plus 50 years, and I am very proud of the athletes, and I am pleased with any of their smallest results, whether at state level or at European or global level. In the past, we have also taken care of those athletes who have achieved or achieved excellent results. And you know that in one of the mandates before that we have voted to get athletes with excellent results in their careers also better, better, higher, higher pensions.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss it. I can see that. I'm asking you to sign up. Only Franz Kramar has been reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u62	Thank you very much, President. Well, today we are talking about sport, which I think is one of the most important social activities in Slovenia. Why is it the most important? In view of the fact that the success of sport in the world through our athletes is very receptive, I can say that, given the size of the country and the number of inhabitants, we are at the very top of sport. And I think that's why, of course, athletes who have won the Olympic, world and other championships in the past carry the credit. The fact is that such a small nation with such a strong sporting activity is a fine example in the world and that, in fact, we are recognized by sports as industries in the world, that it is one of the better promotional matters that Slovenia is overcoming. Well, in this I would also generally touch on the fact that conditions a sport to forget here local communities. Local communities in their midst have the means to finance the beginnings. We need to be aware that the hardest times are when someone decides to play sports and starts training them. The youth today, I can say, somewhere by 16, 17 years old is still a lot involved in sports, and then other things come and most of these people leave sports and go the other way. Here I think it's mostly the reason for the finances. The fact is that a top athlete until he is at such a level that he achieves the highest results, the burden is borne by local communities, not by the state, and the state takes over the athlete only when he is actually a top athlete, when he achieves the jealous results. Of course, I would say that I support this holiday. In addition to sports we have a culture in the country, culture has its holiday, state works free day. And I am in favour of the fact that sport is actually entitled to support this proposal for a law on recognition and to declare sport an activity which, or to declare a holiday, is also a sport. My predecessors listed a number of athletes who achieved excellent results and I stress once again – sport is a good promotion for Slovenia. We know successful, very successful athletes who achieve more than excellent results. If I only mention Luke Dončić, Dragić and Kopitar, who actually succeeded and also did a good deal, which is of course good. On the other hand, it seems to me that it will be necessary to start thinking seriously about being at lower levels, not those where quality is, but where quantity is. I come from an environment where young people are very busy, they also have a strong sporting activity in addition to cultural activities, and in this environment it is, unfortunately, so that when they arrive somewhere by the age of 15, 16, they abandon this activity and most people give themselves up to study or study because it is necessary to think about the future and through sport it is difficult and difficult to achieve their future. And those who succeed are, unfortunately, rare, but I hope that in the future, from this young generation, which is today at the level of athletes who do not have the status of high-level sport, they will achieve truly, over time, excellent results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendments today in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. Agenda item - First draft of the Act supplementing the Act on the Republic of Slovenia's measures to safeguard the stability of banks. The draft law was tabled by a group of eight Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec. With regard to this bill, a group of eleven Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Matey Tashner Vatovci requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers, Luke Mescu.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I think it is clear to everyone in this Chamber and more in Slovenia that we have a severe housing crisis in Slovenia. Housing policy has been systematically abandoned by the country for 20, 30 years and the consequences are felt mainly by young people on their shoulders. Prices of apartments fly to the sky. Before the crisis, Ljubljana was the European capital, where housing prices grew the fastest. Even if you visit the Statistical Office today, you will see that the real estate price index is currently 133, which means that real estate is only 33% more expensive than it was in 2015. Despite the crisis, despite the economic stagnation, despite the lack of tourism, we still have 33% more expensive properties today than in 2015. As a result, we have one of the largest populations of young people living at home. Between the ages of 25 and 34, every other young man or 40 percent of the whole generation is expected to live at home with his parents. This brings us to the top of Europe and far for countries that can stand up to the best housing policy in Europe, I am talking about Scandinavians, where this share is less than 5%. The reason is clear, young people today have the following options: whether they are paying off the rent - you can go to Bulgaria and see what the rent is now after Slovenia - or take a loan that they will pay for their whole life and get more than ten thousand euros in interest for it or even more than a hundred thousand euros in interest, many times the interest exceeds the principal of the loan - or they live at home. And a lot of people can't afford to live at home financially. They have apartments that are more expensive than many in Europe, more expensive than, say, in Graz, and wages are half lower than in Graz. I now come to the point why we are re-applying the proposal for the free transfer of property and land of a bad bank to the Housing Fund. At the bad bank, there are currently 14 plots which, according to the 2019 Housing Fund's estimate, are suitable or conditional for transfer to the Housing Fund and on which 1,368 apartments and 16 row houses could be built, so that 4 to 5,000 people would have a roof over their head. We have a lion and a right-hand government pocket. We have a bad bank, which has marketable properties and we have the Housing Fund, which is both financially well-fed and would also need land specifically such as those which are some of them in the centres of cities where it is difficult to obtain them so that they can build non-profit dwellings for young people, for young families and for all those who are not able to live because of current prices. In short, our solution is simple. With DUTB, let us transfer these properties, these land to the Housing Fund, which is the first step towards obtaining housing for four to five thousand people. In Levica, of course, we have also read the opinions of the Government, which again points to various complications, but I will respond in a very brief way. We have organised an unpaid transfer from DUTB in such a way that it has no negative effects on the DUTB balance sheet and we have organised it in such a way that the state budget is not damaged. Of course, this is only the first step towards ensuring these properties, these apartments. In autumn we are preparing a budget rebalancing, and in Levica we have a firm position that this time in the rebalancing we need to take serious recapitalisation of the Housing Fund so that the apartment can start building. If I recall from 2009 onwards, the Housing Fund did not even receive the euro of recapitalisation from the state budget to build public apartments, so let us not leave the housing policy of the market. We need an active state policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mag. Poloni Fleurin. [[talking to each other]] Okay, there's something wrong with this protocol. I give the word "magic." Kristina Stably. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm gonna apologize to my colleague for getting sick, so... [[…]] With regard to the consideration of the bill in question, the Government considers that it deviates from the basic principles not only from the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks but also from all public financial rules, since it actually defines the unpaid transfer of assets as being repaid. In this regard, it is worth noting that, despite the proposal for a law providing for the free transfer of real estate from the DUTB to the State Housing Fund, the State should, in any event, intervene from the State budget, as it should allocate additional resources to the budget to cover the DUTB commitments undertaken. As also follows from the explanations provided in the opening part of the Government's transmitted opinion, as well as substantial resources to the Housing Authority in accordance with the implementation of all planned construction of residential properties on land which would be subject to transfer under the proposed law. The Government estimates that sufficient measures have already been taken to achieve the objectives pursued by the law's proponents, without prejudice to existing legislation or the impact on the financial situation of the DUTB and the risks posed by DUTB's State guarantees. As the DUTB Assembly, in June 2019 the Government adopted a decision imposing the obligation of DUTB to transfer certain properties to the housing fund, which it considered appropriate or appropriate. For the purposes of transferring these properties as the founder of the necessary amount, the government has also increased the dedicated assets of the housing fund. For this reason, the Government considers that the proposed law is unnecessary, as it already achieves the same objective in the way it is used, but on a systematicly escape route and in line with the needs and also with the possibilities of the Housing Fund. The proposal for a bill that, by adopting the proposed law last year and as a result of the transfer of these properties, the housing fund could obtain around a thousand 957 public rental apartments and 157 houses, should also be lighted in terms of the capacity of the housing fund to build these residential properties, taking into account both the time and the financial component of the building. As has been publicly explained several times, the housing fund does not have the resources to build all these residential buildings, which means that even if they would transfer all properties to the housing fund, these buildings would not be able to be built at the appropriate time. However, particular attention is paid to the assessment of the financial implications of the State Budget Act and other public funds. The drafter of the law probably knows that public debt must be repaid together with interest, which requires the resources of the budget of the State which is not planned for that purpose. The proposal for a law, as well as the proposal for a free transfer, or real estate already owned by the DUTB, or those yet acquired by the DUTB, is inadequate because it is contrary to the basic objectives of the DUTB and the guidelines for the functioning of the DUTB set by the Government. The DUTB must ensure, in accordance with the ZUKSB law, the cost-effective use of the budget and its reimbursement, and the free transfer is exactly the opposite of the economic behaviour and use of public funds, while at the same time inconsistent with the DUTB core task. The Government is of the view that the way through the transfer of real estate from the DUTB to the housing fund allows for the achievement of the overall objective of increasing the number of rental apartments within the existing legal framework, with transfers carried out in accordance with the financial and human resources capacity of the Housing Fund to carry out the planned investments in the construction of public rental apartments and without negative consequences for public finances as well as the financial stability of the DUTB. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups, the Slovenian Democratic Party's delegation, Ljubo Žnidar, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Left Group is proposing a revised complement to the uncoordinated law of last year. As a result, the transfer from DUTB to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was stopped or not implemented. The proposer of this revised proposal shall specify the main solutions. The amendment provides that, in addition to fulfilling its basic activities of implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks, the DUTB also pursues a public interest area of housing policy. In pursuit of public interest in DUTB’s housing policy, instead of pursuing a profit motive, it follows the public interest. Amendments to the law provide that within 14 days of the acquisition of the property, the DUTB must provide data on each property acquired and shall inform the fund within one month whether the property is suitable for transfer or not. If the property is suitable for the achievement of the objectives of the active housing policy, the DUTB shall transfer it free of charge to the Republic of Slovenia within 14 days of receipt of the notification and the Republic of Slovenia shall pay the acquired property within 1 month of receipt as an additional dedicated asset of the fund. Amendments to the law shall also be governed by the free transfer of all immovable property suitable for the transfer held by the DUTB on the date of application of this Act. 13. On 13 June 2019, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in the role of the DUB Assembly, decided, inter alia, that it is necessary, in order to implement the resolution on the national housing programme from 2015 to 2025, to transfer the most suitable real estate owned by DUTB to the Fund. The transfer will take place after an assessment of the market value. However, in the proposed proposal, the Government recalls that, despite the proposal for a law providing for the free transfer of real estate from DUTB to the housing fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the State would in any case have to invest by budgetary means, and therefore, if we are talking about a free transfer, it would not actually be unpaid to the housing fund, since the State should allocate additional budget resources to cover the DUTB obligation as well as the assets of the housing fund to carry out all planned housing constructions on land which would be the subject of transfer. [[Incomprehensible]] The way in which real estate transfers from DUTB to the housing fund established by the Government allows for a common objective of increasing the number of public rental apartments within the existing legal framework, with the transfer being carried out in accordance with the financial and human resources capacity of the Housing Fund to carry out the planned investments in the construction of public rental apartments and without negative consequences for public finances and the financial stability of DUTB. The proposed law deviates from the basic principles and public financial rules, so in the SDS Group we consider that the law is not suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The positions of the LMŠ Group will be presented by Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u70	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! On purpose, in my position, I stem from the resolution on the national youth programme, which was developed in 2013-2022, which also refers to the bibian situation of young people. One of the main objectives of the resolution is to enable young people to enjoy their own economic and social security on the basis of their employment policy and thus create conditions for making it easier for young people to become independent. Young people are an important part of society and represent a pillar of development and the future of the country. Slovenia provides a favourable environment for the education of young people, and here we are certainly among the better in the European Union, but the club commits to resolutions in other areas not to break through in order to enable young people to have the potential in Slovenia that would motivate them enough to work at home. One of the important conditions for keeping young people is certainly the solution to the housing problem. Such young staff potential goes elsewhere to countries with better conditions of employment, economic and social security, including meeting living conditions. This is contrary to Slovenia's objectives to further reduce the gap with more developed countries and achieve at least an average of the development or gross social product of the countries of the European Union. We will not achieve this by leaving young people, and unfortunately we will not achieve this goal. The fact is that nothing has been done in our country for young people in the last decade in the area of housing problems, so we have highlighted as one of the key challenges in the previous coalition to address the housing problems of young people. The first step taken to achieve this goal was to transfer land from DUTB to the Housing Funds of the Republic of Slovenia. As the DUTB Assembly last June, the Government adopted a decision imposing an obligation on the DUTB to transfer the property on payment to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This Decision mentions 9 locations. The Housing Fund has chosen three locations, which are very suitable, to measure 115 thousand square meters. of which is one location in Ljubljana, one location in Nova Gorica and New Town. And six locations measuring 128 thousand square meters, which were also identified by the housing fund as suitable. So the locations that the housing fund itself chose were selected as suitable. In 2019, the Government's decision enabled us to transfer three locations, which means 589 apartments. There are still six locations in the next two years, which means an additional 1,386 apartments. The second step in solving the problem would be the adoption of a housing law. The law would allow for a change of non-profit rent to cost. State bank guarantees to investors when they made loans to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and to municipal housing funds would also allow a higher level of indebtedness, and so on, there were more proposals. The third step would be the introduction of a Youth Guarantee Scheme. This would allow credits to first-time citizens who solve the housing problem and because of the form of employment, for example, on-the-job employees, or the amount of the income of the real estate loan which cannot be obtained on its own. At the same time, it was a response to the Bank of Slovenia's reckless action, which further exacerbated the housing situation of young people by tightening the lending measures. At the same time, with the implementing laws for 2020, 2021, we have written a provision allowing a state guarantee of EUR 200 million per year for citizens' loans that for the first time solve the housing issue and the form of employment or income do not allow them to obtain credit on their own. These are mainly young, young families, and they are busy on holiday. Then, following the concept of successful stories of some other Member States' poor banks, as in the case of Ireland and Spain, we proposed that, within the framework of the DUTB, which has knowledge in this area, the potentials be pooled and, finally, in practice, the objective set out in the 9-year resolution of the national programme is to be achieved. We have found that it is necessary to pool all the potential potentials that have so far been fragmented across different resources and institutions. We have indicated that the DUBT can do this because it has certain human resources, infrastructure and financial potential. DUBT could build an apartment on its land for more vulnerable groups, provided apartments, nursing homes and student homes. Unfortunately, excessive support for the idea was not mainly due to the fact that the DUB has a poor reputation in the public, mainly because of past inequities, and the policy, as we know, runs away from unpopular measures even if they still make a lot of sense and could solve the current housing problem of young people. When someone needs an apartment, he will not wonder who built it and how DUB worked in the past, especially so that the apartment can be provided. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure the basic existence and decent life of people, and it is the responsibility of the competent institutions and policies to set a framework for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u72	Vice President, thank you. Respectable, all of you. Today we are discussing an identical proposal for a law that was tabled by the same motioner last year when he did not receive support from his mother's working body. The substance of the proposal is that all the land suitable for the construction of dwellings from the Bank Claims Management Company should be transferred free of charge to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. For the first time, the proposal was discussed last year, at a time when the Housing Fund itself proposed to the Government to transfer to it certain land suitable for housing and the current owner is DUTB, the so-called bad bank. The Fund has also drawn up a list of conditionally suitable land for transfer and has also been coordinated with the Government. Although the Law was not adopted in the National Assembly, the government decided that the Housing Fund would be allocated three suitable land for housing. The transfer from DUTB was made in return and to this end the government recapitalised the fund. The applicants now propose once again that the Housing Fund be transferred immediately and free of charge to all the so-called DUTB-owned residential properties. We need to explain to the Social Democrats, as we explained at the time, that we certainly support the strengthening of the Housing Fund, so that it will be able to carry out its basic mission, to provide accessible and quality rental apartments. However, the details of the proposal carry some risks and traps, and we must also reiterate our concerns. We believe that the proposed fund does not provide real housing opportunities, but we are also at risk that even the DUTB will not be able to perform its basic tasks, which is the recovery of the funds invested in the bank recovery by citizens and citizens. In their proposal, the applicants did not over-examine the appropriateness of individual properties for housing, nor the need for different areas, but in particular forgot that by transferring land to another owner we had not yet provided housing. For this purpose, the fund must also be provided with financial resources and its further trips to the field of housing for wealthy buyers should be avoided. Otherwise, we impose a burden on him that he will not be able to bear, and we risk that the fund will also deal with the sale of land, which is not his mission and for which he is not qualified. In the Slovenian market there are already too many brokers with land and too few investors in quality and affordable apartments. The difficult situation in the Slovenian real estate market, where affordable rentals are largely lacking, is due to decades when housing was left to the market and investments were left to private people. We have to reverse this trend. We can only turn it around with a long-term plan and concrete investment. The Housing Fund should therefore be provided with money, not just for land. We must ensure that housing supplies are provided for the most suitable land. It is necessary to ensure that the DUTB reimburses the huge assets that have been invested in bank recovery. In short, to build a sufficient number of quality and affordable public rental apartments, we need to do much more than simply transfer land ownership. The first step without doubt in the next can be very dangerous. That is why we will use today's debate primarily to familiarise ourselves with the situation and to find viable solutions that will also enable the construction of public housing, not just the free transfer of property ownership from one institution to another. However, we certainly support all viable solutions that will enable the construction of such apartments. In view of the debate that has been held, we will also finally decide to support the proposal for a decision on the appropriateness of the draft law for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. All in attendance, all in attendance! After almost a year, the Levica Group re- tabled the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. It pursues the same goals as for the first time, namely the transfer of properties suitable for the construction of apartments from DUTB or bad banks to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. We support the objectives of this bill in the SMC Group as we did last year, but we note that the Government has taken action last year. Thus, it was decided by a government decision in June 2019 that the DUTB would transfer its most suitable real estate in return to the Housing Fund. In October 2019 sales contracts were signed for transfer or purchase of land at locations in Ljubljana, New Town and Nova Gorica worth over EUR 10 million. At these locations, the Housing Fund is now planning to build several hundred public rental apartments and kind houses. Therefore, in November 2019 the Government increased the dedicated assets of the Fund accordingly. Several other locations or land have been recorded as suitable for transfer, and it is therefore reasonable to continue such a process. In our view, this is the only right way, both legally and economically. That the original proposed solution of the Left was wrong, they indirectly acknowledged the same, i.e. today's proponents, as further amendments to the text of today's amendment have already been introduced. Although today's proposal still mentions free land transfer, it could also be called fraud. The novelty no longer provides for a direct free transfer from the DUTB to the Housing Fund, but for an intermediate transfer to the country and then in a second step from the country to the fund. In this way, the Housing Fund would have avoided certain business risks and all public financial risks for the DUTB would have been covered by the State, on the basis of a hazy dictatorship whereby the Republic of Slovenia would ensure that the position of the DUTB creditors would not deteriorate due to free transfer, which in fact means the recapitalisation of the DUTB. Thus, the profit of a bad bank would be taken into account, its business interest would be at the forefront, but not its public interest in housing policy, as this free transfer would not really be. And we sincerely doubt that this was the political objective of the motioners in Levica; most likely it is merely the inconsistencies or inability to anticipate all the potential both positive and negative consequences of the proposed legal solutions. With regard to DUTB, we note that this, in addition to fulfilling its basic activities, is not the responsibility of implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks to achieve public interest in housing policy. Indeed, DUTB is 100% state-owned, but certain properties cannot be treated differently from other property claims. And it would be completely inconsistent if, after eight years of setting up a bad bank, it decided that it would now perform tasks for which it had not been set up at all. Let us recall that the main task of the DUTB is to manage the assets it has acquired from banks by returning to the maximum extent possible the assets of taxpayers that have been invested in bank recovery. Therefore, the assets of a bad bank cannot be used free of charge to achieve other objectives. The DUTB must manage its assets in accordance with the principle of a good master and also in accordance with international standards. However, since its operation also affects the balance of the state sector, it is also monitored and supervised by the European Commission. In accordance with the law, the lifespan of DUTB expires at the end of 2022 when the remainder of its assets were to be transferred to SDH. But DUTB has already sold a large portion of its assets and could have stopped operating prematurely today. In the SMC, we are not inclined to change or extend the purpose of the poor bank's operation to the area of housing resolution, but we support its early termination. However, housing policy should be implemented by the competent institutions, i.e. housing funds at national or municipal levels. We have already represented this position in the previous coalition, and it is interesting that the idea of extending the operation of the DUTB was also on the side of the opposition in Levica at that time. With regard to housing policy, we would particularly like to point out that a draft new Housing Law was transmitted to the public debate in October 2019. This includes the main measures in the housing sector, with the aim of providing more public rentals. And the owners of this policy will be republican or municipal housing funds and not a bad bank. And why is such a path most appropriate - because the portfolio of the poor bank's property needs to be assessed according to the traditional market construction criteria, while the country's housing policy needs to be decided primarily on the location criterion. Where rentals are located, which is where regions are most lacking, and also to pursue the objectives of as coherent regional development as possible. We are convinced that the new housing law is a prerequisite for the implementation of an active housing policy, so we want it to become one of the top priorities in this government as well. Although we agree with the objectives of the proposed law, we do not agree with its implementation through the DUTB, the proposed novels cannot be supported today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Dr. Matej T. Vatovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Vice President. Hello, everybody! The main objective of the novel, which proposes that the land on which the DUTB housing can be built be transferred to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, is to enable socially disadvantaged people to have a minimum of decent and affordable housing. However, the transfer of land to the DUTB is not just a measure to address the social distress of young people as well as other working people, but also an anti-crisis measure. According to data from the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the value of construction works performed in the buildings in March is 4.8% lower than the works performed in February. Of this, the value of parts carried out in residential buildings decreased by 5,6 %. In March 2020, the overall construction sector in Slovenia fell among the largest in the European Union countries, and the launch of this activity is therefore crucial for the recovery of the economy as a whole. The transfer of land on which it will be possible to build apartments will accelerate the construction of residential buildings and, consequently, equip these facilities. The activation of investments in housing will therefore make an important contribution to the recovery of the construction sector and related supply chains. It will also contribute to the preservation of jobs and to increased inflows of taxes and contributions to public treasury. The increase in the supply of non-profit apartments provided by this novel, proposed in Levica, would also hinder the relaunching of the real estate and credit balloon. Prior to the outbreak of the economic crisis associated with the COVID-19 epidemic, rental and real estate prices in Slovenia flew directly to the sky. According to Eurostat data, prices for renting apartments in Ljubljana increased the fastest in 2018 compared to other European capitals. According to SURS data, real estate prices rose by 9.1% in 2018 and an additional 5.2% last year. Due to the lack of affordable housing, housing costs for 35% of households were a heavy burden in 2018. For 53% of households, the average burden is high. For only 13% of households, these costs did not represent any burden. In the wake of the economic crisis, the increase in rent prices has been temporarily eased due to the increase in supply. Many tenants who have so far been renting short - term apartments to tourists have begun renting apartments for long periods of time to local tenants. However, it should be borne in mind that at the same time, the situation of self-employed, students and other socially disadvantaged groups has only deteriorated, as they had to continue to pay rents or rent on housing loans at the same time. Moreover, at the time of the resumption of the economy after the end of the COVID-19 epidemic, if we do not take the appropriate measures, only the question of when the rent prices will go wild again. By starting mass construction of non-profit dwellings, young people would have an accessible roof above their heads, and the risk of not being able to pay rent would have been reduced, as rents would have been reduced. According to the Director of the Remca Housing Fund, it would be between €5 and €7 per square meter per month. The prices of market rents in Ljubljana were twice as high before the outbreak of the crisis. An increased supply of rental apartments would reduce the excessive demand for housing and housing, thus mitigating the pressure on price increases and mitigating the risk of a credit and real estate balloon. In addition, this solution, which is also proposed in the national housing programme between 2015 and 2025, where such a transfer is envisaged. In addition, we need to understand the function of DUTB, which should be in the public interest. The transfer of these dwellings would be the first step towards starting up, although we agree here to launch a public housing fund or investment in public housing, which is, of course, undernourished and undernourished at the moment. so that we must not only take this as one isolated measure, but as a first step in a comprehensive solution to the housing problem and in order to encourage the public housing fund, that, of course, such measures may also require more investment from the country in this area. This is a minimum prerequisite for us also to deal effectively with the problem of lack of public housing. For these reasons, of course, we support the law at first reading in Levica, and we also expect that this will encourage a debate on how to solve the housing problem in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague. In Novi Slovenija we are confident and know that housing problems must be solved by housing law. At the end of 2012, we were present when we adopted the Act on Measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks and we well know what the basic objective of this law was. The aim was or was the measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We believe in the well-intention of the applicants to solve the acute issue, the acute problem in our country – the problem of housing especially for young and young families. The Levica Group in the amendment to the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks proposes that the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, in addition to fulfilling its basic activities, be implementing measures to strengthen the stability of banks, also pursues public interest in housing policy. As it is said, this public interest in housing policy we understand that it must be that there is a place in the housing law. Applicants propose that, for the first time, the DUTB should provide data on each property acquired within 14 days of the acquisition of the property. Secondly, the fund shall then inform within one month whether the property is suitable for transfer, for the fund shall inform the DUTB. Thirdly, if the property is suitable for the achievement of the objectives of the active housing policy, the DUTB shall, within 14 days of receipt of the notification, place it free of charge, transfer it to the Republic of Slovenia. Fourthly, the Republic of Slovenia must pay the acquired property within one month of the acquisition as an additional dedicated asset of the Fund. In addition, amendments to the law regulate the free transfer of all suitable properties already owned by the DUTB on the date of entry into force of the law. With regard to the free transfer of real estates, which I have previously underlined, which are the subject of the third paragraph of the new Article 10b, namely Article 1 of the amendment, it is necessary to state that the acquisition or purchase by way of payment of claims against the debtor of new real estate by the DUTB with a view to further free transfer to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is not justified, since the Company for the Management of Bank Claims is taking over the assets for the purpose of resale, while attempting, in accordance with the objective of establishing, to obtain the maximum possible value. In such cases, it is only reasonable for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to point out in advance which properties would be suitable for purchase from the country side and then transfer on the basis of the independent valuation of the pricer at the value of the property chosen jointly by both the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the Company for the enforcement of bank claims. In Novi Slovenije, we note that the proposed institution has misapplied the free transfer of property to the Republic of Slovenia. The unpaid transfer of real property to the country means that this real estate would not be paid by the State and that no provision should be made for it in the budget. In other words, an unpaid transfer means a donation or a gift. However, it cannot be stipulated in the law that it is a non-reimbursable transfer if a State acquires immovable property for the value of which it has to take over and settle the obligations imposed on the transferor. In this case, the payment of the transfer of the purchase is not paid in cash and not necessarily immediately, but by taking on the obligation. This is one of the key reasons why the New Slovenia Group will not support the law. If we look at the basic programme of New Slovenia, we stand by and look for the fact that the creation of property must be possible for all citizens and citizens of this country. We want everyone with a job to get their property and make their own. This will enable people to participate in the development of prosperity, property means security. In particular, every citizen must be given a realistic opportunity to provide at least a minimum standard of housing in his own apartment, rented apartment or apartment. The country needs to help young families solve the first housing problem. The affordable housing must be part of the promise of the welfare of the social market economy. The Free State shall promote and ensure equal living and working conditions. We need to improve the efficiency of building public housing to reflect real needs on the housing market. Housing must be built, which are affordable and at the same time allow for a high quality of life. Through tax reliefs and specific credit schemes with reduced interest rates, we must encourage the purchase and rental of dwellings for young families, who for the first time solve the housing problem and other vulnerable groups, and in this sense Nova Slovenija will also work in this coalition. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u80	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Left proposed a law with the same content and the same objectives in June last year. The proposal we are considering today is somewhat modified. It provides for a mandatory, unpaid transfer of selected properties on which the Housing Fund will build dwellings in accordance with the spatial acts of the municipalities. The properties are transferred to the Republic of Slovenia. They shall be paid within 1 month of their acquisition as dedicated assets of the Fund. The Republic of Slovenia assumes the obligations of the DUTB up to the level of the value of all transferred properties. From there, it ensures that due to the unpaid transfer, the DUTB creditors will not be in a worse position. The Court of First Instance did not provide the majority with support, as the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, adopted a decision to abolish the payment of the most suitable properties to the Housing Fund. The transfer of real estate is recognised as an urgent step towards implementing the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025. A few months later, the government decision was already implemented, as DUTB signed a sales contract with the Housing Fund for the three lands most suitable for the construction of public rental apartments. This year, four additional properties were envisaged for the continuation of the payment of suitable real estates and two additional suitable real estates were to be sold during this year. As we know, the transfer project stopped at the time of the resignation of the previous Prime Minister. Let us recall that the government's solution enjoyed the strong support of SMC and their then Ministry of Environment and Space. Therefore, today, the SAB expects clear answers from the government. Will it continue with the transmissions? Are we going back to the stagnation phase of the development of housing policy, which denies housing to young and socially disadvantaged people? Will it comply with the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025, which provides for the transfer of suitable real estate from DUTB to the Housing Fund? And we expect exactly the same answers from the previous coalition partners DeSUS and SMC, as they supported the ten years of abandoned housing policy a year ago. We are aware that only the transfer of property to the housing fund to young people tomorrow will not allow the special housing scheme that we want to implement in the SAB, but this transfer is a step forward. It is a step forward that builds the foundations for setting up the necessary housing scheme that will allow young people to rent and buy state-owned apartments at a lower price. We need to make it easier and faster for young people to become independent, because today an average young working person is not allowed to rent a decent apartment or buy a decent apartment. The housing situation of young people is thus almost entirely dependent on their parents in the vast majority of cases. It's about time we changed that. In the SAB Group, we consider the law to be suitable for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia should be provided with suitable land for the construction of dwellings and the achievement of the objectives set out in the Resolution on the National Housing Programme from 2015 to 2025. In the last ten years, the housing fund, as an investor, has built only 611 apartments and purchased 844 apartments, a total of 1455 in ten years. We are faced with two different ways of encouraging public housing. Both are based on the transfer of real estates, in particular land suitable for this purpose, from the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Housing Fund. In the DeSUS Group, we do not see any reservations about the transfer of real estate to the housing fund, but the fundamental dilemma is how to do it – either in return or free of charge. The Bank Claims Management Company was set up to assist in the restructuring of banks of systemic importance that were in difficulty. Following the transfer of claims to the DUTB, its main function is to provide the highest possible return for the country and indirectly for its biggest financiers, taxpayers are said to be. The second important task of DUTB is to repay the value of State guarantee bonds issued as a payment for transferred assets and to generate the required return on the original paid-in capital of the Republic of Slovenia. In the event of an unpaid transfer, the Republic of Slovenia would not be paid. As an independent business entity, DUTB would have taken away the property owned by it. As a result, ongoing loss-making would be expected, which would have an impact on the planned surplus of the country in which the Banks Claims Management Company belongs. As the DUTB Assembly of 13 June last year, the Government adopted a decision imposing on the company the obligation to transfer the most suitable and suitable properties to the housing fund. In doing so, it is important that the suitability of the transferred property has been identified by the Fund itself. It is also important to stress that in this case it is not an unfinished or uninhabited apartment, but rather a land on which it will be possible to build its dwellings. The transfer was carried out following an assessment of the market value on 24 October of last year. As a result of these operations, the value of DUTB assets has not decreased and the value of real estate has been compensated by funds of slightly less than EUR 12 million and EUR 300,000. Members of the DeSUS Group assess the government's approach by paying off the transfer of real estate from the DUTB to the housing fund as a business and accounting technically more appropriate than a huge unpaid transfer. Free transfer contains two components that cannot be overlooked. There is an increase in the public debt of the country, which will have to be repaid in the coming years, for which additional budgetary expenditure will have to be designed and implemented. The second component is the insurance of DUTB creditors' claims to which the Republic of Slovenia will provide a proportional share payment. Taking into account, but not when ignoring both facts, the apparent eloquent attractiveness of the non-payment of the transfer shall prove economically unsustainable. On the so far transferred properties, which have been identified as the most suitable, it will be possible to build around 590 apartments and 90 types of houses. However, the time and financial dimension of the conduct of transactions depends on the capacity of the public fund. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is an institution which, like each other, has its organizational limitations, first by the number of employees and then by the availability of financial resources, so it is possible with the easily promised speed of building new dwellings is completely unrealistic. The objectives pursued by the Government through the payment of the real estate transfer of the Company for the Management of Bank Claims to the Housing Fund will thus be achieved without legislative changes and without causing the losses of the DUTB, which is, again and again, necessary to stress, in 100% state ownership. For the sake of all that has been said, Members of the DeSUS Group cannot give support to the law supplementing the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks proposed by colleagues and colleagues of the Levica Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u84	Respectable all present, good afternoon. The idea of the bill-maker is basically good because it wants to ensure an increase in the number of public rental apartments, but the way this objective is achieved is not appropriate. Let me explain why. Firstly, we do not support the business between DUTB and the Housing Fund. Slovenian taxpayers had to pay billions to resolve the banking system. The main task of the DUTB is to pay back as much of this tax money as possible back to the budget. It is in our interest that DUTB sell all properties at the highest possible price. In our view, all real estate should have been sold as prices have gone skyward in recent years. We were therefore in a period that was very favourable for real estate sellers, and we are not sure that DUTB took advantage of the favourable economic situation. We are also not satisfied with the work of the DUTB, as the supervisory institutions have identified and pointed out many irregularities in their operation. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that the DUB should be terminated as soon as possible. Pika. Another time. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has a distinct social function, since the number of dwellings is limited, we do not have all access to public rental apartments. What bothers us in particular is that those who work find it difficult to get to public rental apartments, even though they receive minimum wages, would not be too high for public rental apartments. Public rentals are thus primarily intended for those who do not work and receive financial social assistance. As a result of such tenants who don't even pay the bills, he also has a housing fund for losses. We want Slovenians working and receiving low incomes to live in public rental apartments, and others can be better able to come to their own apartment. And the third time. In order to increase the number of public rentals, additional funds should be provided in the State budget for the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. This will be the next opportunity for this year's budget rebalancing. Since price increases have stopped or even declined, it is now the right time for the housing fund to buy or build apartments, I would buy them because prices are likely to fall further. But I would build them to boost economic growth. The objective of the Housing Fund is to find favourable opportunities for the purchase of real estate and the resources should be provided by the State. It is a little strange that solutions are proposed by a political party and not a housing fund that should look for solutions on a daily basis. Let's not forget we still have a whole bunch of empty apartments. A lot of apartments could still be restored. Apparently, there's not enough interest. It would be most realistic and fairer if the state gave guarantees for the housing loans of natural persons. Not just young people, all generations. When a person assumes his own housing loans, he commits himself to working and working for the early repayment of the loan, that means taking responsibility for himself and his family. It's the right way. That's how all generations have done it. The country should only help so that low-income people can also obtain housing loans. If someone couldn't pay off the loan, the apartment would be in the hands of the housing fund. This could also increase the number of public rentals. The Housing Credit Guarantees Act was already ready for the stage to take into account comments from the public hearing and then due to the collapse of the Government, the procedure stopped. That's too bad. The current Government has replied to my question on housing loan guarantees that the future fate of the law will be decided when the epidemic situation is calmed. In the SNS, we will always support all real, feasible and effective measures to increase public rentals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. A general debate has been held between the Members and the Members on the proposal for a law. The text shall be by the representative of the proposer, Luka Mesec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much and very much! I will briefly respond to the concerns raised in the debates. In the end, my colleague and SNS said that the State should give the guarantee for housing credit, a person or family to take responsibility for it, and so have all generations. First of all, Slovenia once had a very ambitious housing policy, both state and on the other hand social companies were the ones that provided tens of thousands of dwellings in Slovenia. It's the other way around. Those who built the house themselves somehow applied the principle of working for about seven years to build a house or to settle a housing problem. But today's young generations are suppressed by you working 30 years to solve your housing problem. It's a substantial difference. Look at the prices of the apartments that are on the market today. Not only about Ljubljana, you can also look at the coastal or Škofja Loko or the surrounding areas in central Slovenia or any urban centre, and you will see that the young family that tries to fix the housing problem and takes the credit is suppressed into paying off the loan for 20, 30 years, with the vines usually even exceeding the capital. Here we are. Not more than seven years old, not more than a municipality or a social enterprise or a state helping you solve a housing problem, but a market and a market for you is charging the prices of steaks and these prices are flying to the sky. Ljubljana was the fastest growing European capital before the crisis. And now, what are we doing? We have a bad bank, which is a public-owned institution that sells real estate on the market. He's got real estate in locations that are sort of elite. For example, if you look at the list that we have attached to the law, you will see that there is Parmova street, near the center of Ljubljana, Pink Valley, in Ljubljana. When he sells these properties, they won't be back. I speak only for Ljubljana, even in other places you can look at maps, but, in the heart of cities, and in general, space is not unlimited when this land sells, these land housing funds at such prices as can be obtained today, from Dutb, the state, will not get back and it doesn't matter what is being built there. If you're going to sell it on Parmo Street in Ljubljana, you're going to sell it to an investor. What do investors in the city center do today? My colleague, the photographer, was doing a test - during the crown crisis he went to Situla, this is this black column by the railway station, on the roof and there was one camera at dark, so one camera, pointed up against this work of the Sava village, BTC, and the other camera pointed towards the city centre and was making sequential pictures when it was dark, about half a minute. The conclusion is that the Sava village was then lit up, right, all the people lit the lights, while the city center remained half dark. Reason? During the crown crisis, there was no tourism; during the crown crisis, Airbnb remained unoccupied. And now, if you sell these properties to investors – who can guarantee you that these investors will not build airbnb hotels there and thus further instigate apartments in cities and that they will not make it further difficult for young people and for those who today cannot get to the apartment. Who can guarantee that? Or rather, I'll ask you when you say, you have to look at the fiscal consequences. Look, here are the apartments that are state-owned, which can be transferred free of charge to the housing fund. But if you say, okay, we're going to sell it, and you're going to get 50 comparable land on the market like this, is that going to cost 50 million more? Will it cost 200 million? Unfortunately for us, the prices of housing and land are on the increase, and no investor, no private initiative, will stop it. This can only be stopped by the state, with its policy. By finally starting to do something about this housing policy after 20 years. To begin with, to transfer these properties, these lands, to the housing fund. Now, others say, even if they were transferred to a housing fund, it has no possibility, neither human resources nor financial means to actually build apartments. I object. I'll say the other way around. You say, first of all, we have to provide housing funds, and then we're going to deal with land, but when we talk about resources in the fall, we're going to say, 200 million for the housing fund, we're going to get exactly the opposite answer from the government side as we get it today, and they're going to say what they're going to do with 200 million, because they don't have land to build it, or do you know how long it takes for someone in Slovenia to acquire a wally land where they can build apartments? True, it is said that the problem today is that the housing fund does not have personnel and finances, but in the autumn it will be a problem that it does not have land or that it is difficult to obtain adequate land with us in one year or six months. So, well, somewhere we're going to have to start, and here we have an opportunity to start by transferring these lands before DUTB sells them. Now, what does this mean for public finances? First of all, this money is already, I think this property is already public. Thus, we will not in any way aggravate the country's indebtedness and so on. Also, if you look at the country's indebtedness, you can type in the SURS, today it's 31.74 billion. If we add 50 million as much as these properties cost, it's public debt, because if we carry them, we say it increases from 31.74 to 31.79. The percentage remains the same, 66.1% of BPD. We are talking about property that will in no way have a significant impact on public debt. It will, however, be because of coronaryism, because we will have a 7.8% drop in growth by the end of the year and because we have billions of anti-coron measures, and the public debt will increase by the end of the year from 66.1% to 80% of GDP by the end of the year, according to some estimates. But are these properties really a factor in this? I have just shown you that practically in this amount of public debt we currently have is being drowned. And there's one more thing to say. We will not repay this public debt. Countries do not pay off the public debt in full, are paying off parts or, above all, are working to reduce public debt compared to GDP, which means that it is being reduced by increasing public debt, while at the same time increasing GDP and reducing their fraction. This is done by countries including Slovenia, and no state of public debt shall pay in full. I think I know only one example of the country that was so crazy that it went to do that, and that was Ceausec's Romania in the 1980s, and we know how it ended with the rationalization of eggs, flour, electricity and the collapse of the regime, right? No country shall pay this in full. In short, I think we need to stop talking about technology here, about how the DUB balance will be compromised. Yes, DUTB will achieve an 8-% or 9% annual return instead of a 10% annual return. We need to stop talking about things like what the impact on public debt will be, because with everything that we will do this year, whether small or small, housing policy needs, it will have to be invested by some estimates of 200 million a year, it will be 50 million to start a drop into the sea, and we will start talking about how we will solve the problem. The problem is: 40% of young people in Slovenia live at home between the ages of 25 and 34. Every other man, a young man between the ages of 25 and 34, lives at home. Young people can't set up an apartment because rents fly into the sky. The prices of apartments fly to the sky and the country does not act. And the only way to get out of this vicious circle, to do something for the young generation, is to get the state to act. Housing can't be a privilege. The apartment was once and must become a human right again in the 21st century.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The word has Andrea Zabret to prepare Natasha Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, chairman. Yes, now, the law that we are considering today, or the bill that we are considering today, is one of the key areas, it is a housing policy that needs to be reformed and has been inadequate for a long time and, in fact, with this strategy that we have not yet implemented. According to the report of the Fund for the Identification of the Needs of Types of Housing Fund, 9 000 167 public rental apartments are currently missing in Slovenia, of which 4 000 200 are only in the municipality of Ljubljana. In addition, there are 599 accommodation units, 1,120 other rental apartments and 540 supplied apartments in Slovenia. These are large numbers and we can see from these figures that the deficit is really big and this is a problem that needs to be tackled and action taken. Finally, one of the main objectives of the Resolution on the National Housing Programme 2015-2025 is to enable young people to enjoy their own economic and social security and thus create conditions for easier self-reliance. We all agree with all of this, and even in the previous Government, we have already taken a few steps on this subject, which I will explain a little later. Of course, the question is how, how do we solve this issue? The proposal made on 17 June last year to transfer real estate from the DUTB to the Housing Fund is, of course, nothing to dispute, but at the time, we hit a gap mainly in the concept of how to transfer it, in what way. Indeed, the proposal of the Left was and also today's proposal is that it is a free transfer. At that time, we did not support this law in the LMŠ, but not because we would not want to solve the housing problems that are very important to us, because we also had it in our coalition agreement, but because the government had already achieved its basic objective by means of the measures adopted earlier. We can recall that the Government, as the DUB Assembly at the time, had already adopted a decision in June 2019 imposing the obligation of the DUTB to pay off the real estate transfer to the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. However, nine locations were mentioned in this series at the time, the Housing Fund first selected three suitable, very suitable locations, measuring 115 thousand square meters, one in Ljubljana, one in Nova Gorica and New Town. As I mentioned, nine locations were selected, and the Housing Fund also selected six locations, which were at a rate of 128 thousand square metres and were identified by the Housing Fund as suitable. So all the locations selected were those selected by the Housing Fund itself, and the first three locations, as I mentioned, were also transferred. At that time, the government did so without prejudice to existing legislation and without prejudice to the financial situation of the DUTB and to controlled interference in the balance of the State sector, as we know that the Housing Fund belongs to the state sector and can also affect public debt of the State. The remaining six locations that I mentioned were still unmoved, at a rate of 128 thousand square meters. And that's essentially the thing we're talking about today. At present, the Government does not, in fact, commit to the transfer procedure of these locations, that it could not continue to do so, of course, if it had any interest. Indeed, the matters of the former Government have been prepared, and although the material has not been dealt with at a meeting of the previous Government, this does not mean anything for this Government. I would like to emphasise and say that solving the housing problem for LMŠ is a very important topic. That is why we also wanted to move things forward in the LMŠ, particularly in the area of solving the housing problem of young people. We had quite a few things prepared and the first step was this transfer of land from DUTB to the Housing Fund. And as I mentioned, we moved these three properties, which means 589 apartments. The second step was the adoption of the Housing Law, which was essentially fully prepared and would be to turn non-profit rents into cost. This law would also provide State bank guarantees, state bank guarantees would be available to investors when lending, and for housing funds and municipal housing funds a higher level of indebtedness would also be possible, as the cost rent would in fact allow for the recovery of investments and the need to retain housing funds would therefore be reduced. It was also intended to introduce a public hire service, the third step was the introduction of a Youth Guarantee Scheme, the law was also just before the hearing in the National Assembly, with which the state would allow loans to citizens who for the first time solve the housing policy or problem, and because of, in particular, we, in this proposal of the law, it would also be an emphasis on criminal employment, because we know that these fines, so-called, have mainly a problem of obtaining credits. This introduction of the guarantee scheme was in particular also a response to the Bank of Slovenia measure, which later proved to be reckless and further exacerbated the housing situation of young people. We also wanted a change in the functioning of the DUTB, namely, the advantage in the construction of public rental apartments would have real estate owned by DUTB and we know that DUTB also created 250 million of its capital in 7 years of operation, the assets of 800 million and therefore the DUTB has sufficient financial resources and the idea was that, in addition to managing the claims and restructuring of DUTB companies, the construction of public rental apartments is still being carried out. This idea is not new, similar concepts of bad banks are also known in other European countries, so it has not grown in our heads. There have been a lot of concerns, in fact, from all coalition and opposition parties, but it is necessary to know, even when we were thinking about what absorption possibilities the Housing Fund itself has, namely, the Housing Fund is, as they said at the time, that their absorption capacity is occupied until 2025, that they currently have 3,000 housing units and that they do not have enough employees and professionals to carry out all these housing constructions that would only be envisaged by transferring them from the DUTB to the Housing Fund. And then our argument was, above all, that DUTB also had several other properties in its portfolio, which would be suitable for these purposes to build non-profit apartments and also have adequate experience, knowledge and resources. Now, if I sum up, in LMŠ we support all the ideas that would bring sufficient housing to the market as soon as possible for young people and even older citizens, because we also know here that there is a large shortage of housing provided and, in particular, shelters provided, so we will support today's law in spite of the way in which the real estate transfer is defined, that it is an unpaid transfer, but since the law can not be amended, we see no difficulty in not supporting it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Nataša Sukič has the word to prepare Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, chairman. Look, because we find this in all the debates in some way and interestingly, no, we also agree and yet we end up disagreeing, no. We agree that we have a big problem, and that is, we do not have an adequate housing policy and the result is, over the past 25, 30 years, that we have a shortage of public rental apartments and that is, of course, the crisis in the real estate market or very high prices, the inflatation of the real estate balloon and so on. I'm gonna get to the point first. I just can't believe it when I listen to this. Here we talk as if any institution that is publicly owned is the universe as if the state is not alone as it is that we do not have clear objectives that should be clear if we want to achieve the common social objectives of one of the main objectives is to regulate housing policies and to ensure a sufficient number of dwellings, in order to solve not only the crisis for young people, but also for other socially vulnerable groups that are at present simply without access to such apartments and who are on the market at such insane prices as governments are very difficult to provide a roof over their heads. Now where is the logic that DUTB sells land on the market and then the Republic Housing Fund later buys this land, let's say it reaches the same land at even higher prices. Where exactly is the logic here? Here we have land or property owned by the public. We're one country, so what's the problem? What are we doing up and down here, and there's liquidity and there's some kind of tax? After all, Luke said well, nothing will rise as a percentage of nothing, but here we are moving around, and we will do everything in our power to do nothing or to do ourselves a bad service. What's going on? Luke also cited some examples. Say you sell land on Parmova or in the Pink Valley in Ljubljana to a private investor what will this do? He will probably invest again in some tourism because tourism is on the rise. The result of tourism is gentrification, so the population is increasingly pushing to rob the outskirts of the city where they do not have adequate housing conditions and even building insufficient public capacity to bridge this crisis, which is not bridging, but only weakening. Now here we have a new law that so elegantly solves and addresses more social problems, because we are talking again about the need to look at society as a whole and adapt systems, which are public so that they will be complementary, that they will work in synchronous and everyone will look at some of the same goals. Here we have an elegant solution for a number of problems. One solution is how socially disadvantaged, including young people, young families and other vulnerable groups, to enable as many decent and affordable housing as possible, this is solution A. Resolution B. The Novela also represents an anti-crisis measure, which Matthew explained very well in our position before, because in this crown of crisis in the first wave it appears that the second wave of data of the SURS is very clear that the value of the construction works performed in the buildings in March, which was 4.8% lower than the works performed in February. Of this, the value of work done in residential buildings has dropped by 5.6% compared to that of March this year, the fall in the entire construction sector in Slovenia is among the largest in the EU and therefore the start-up of this sector is also very important. Why? To preserve jobs, to preserve construction as a sector, we have a whole chain of suppliers and so on. I mean, society is a whole lot. We're not just talking about solving the housing problem here, we're talking about a lot of broader aspects, but no, we're gonna play around here with what it would be free of charge, and we're gonna play it down, and we're gonna play it down. That's another aspect. Thirdly, if we were to provide more non-profit housing, this would mean regulation, pressure on prices on the real estate market, which would start to run, not always rising. At the moment, you will say that the crisis has contributed to the fall. That's not true. They don't fall. I've been watching things for the last two months, and prices are stable for now. Because those who broadcast their apartment through the airbnbs are still waiting for this COVID crisis to pass quickly and will continue to operate well in these tourist waters. While some have now put their apartments on the market, prices have not yet fallen. They're crazy tall. For some small apartment in Ljubljana, which is a bit bigger and 470 euros a month. Please?Oh, my God! And that's what people pay for, those who can't buy their own apartments. Well, they don't have purchasing power. Well, socially, they're not strong enough. And these people have to pay for a roof over their heads like this. But this is a social problem that we should take seriously once, but obviously not. Because if it hadn't been for 25 years, it would have taken 30 years for no one to really do it. I regret that the previous coalition did not take advantage of the opportunity to really solve this. This coalition has the opportunity to historically cut through this Gordy knot and take some decisive step in the right direction. But as I hear it, even this coalition will not take advantage of this historic opportunity to start working for the public good. Next. As it is said, freeing enough non-profit apartments would thus infect the inflatability of the real estate balloon. Yes, but what caused the financial crisis, which ultimately resulted in the establishment of the DUTB? Yeah, just blowing up a real estate balloon first in America, where it rested, then it was a global financial crisis and we were all in crisis and we saw the consequences. Well, and in this way, by this logic, as you're following it now, we're once again contributing to this balloon slowly inflating. And if it is in a global sense, if everyone does so, it will rest again and we will have a new financial crisis. Can we take a logical look at things and stifle things? But not that these causes caused this in the end — What? - We'll keep movin'. So look, more elegant solutions than you have here with this novel in front of you, how from one pocket to another pocket, the government pocket move something, not to go after the curves, sell on the market and then they buy the other in the market even more expensive. This, though, appears to be some kind of money, which is like profit, but in the end it will be that other public institution, which is also in the service of the State as well as the first one, which will buy even more expensive. Yeah, I mean, did we do something about it? Is this possible to re-engage in the state budget in a way, in the final stage, that we will make more money for as little impact as possible? Look, respectable and respected, I hope that we will not work on the logic of that Serbian negotiation, “Why should it be easy if it can be complicated?” Why could I do something if it could be complicated? Let us simplify things, see society as a whole, look at our public institutions and all that is in this country's service as a whole, make it work complementary, not act like really a cosmos for itself. [[Incomprehensible]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli has the word to prepare Marko Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u92	Thank you, President, for your word. I mean, we absolutely support this law here. That's what I said in my position. The real estate problem, the apartment is a real problem in Slovenia. I think it needs to be handled in one way or another. From our SAB party programme, Alenka Bratušek, we even write inside that one of the priorities is to solve this problem, so we also support any initiative that comes for good construction or renting non-profit apartments for young people and for all other citizens. Here it was also envisaged, in our programme, a guarantee scheme which would also allow young families, the so-called p.s., to be able to buy without certain guarantees, even if they are p.s., such and different. I think that it was even presented last year, one such, little “fool” law by SDS, by Chernač, about the guarantee schemes and about this, but I know that it was not, it was very confusing written and so, now, just appealed to the Government, when they are, they are here to start preparing, they can make some more concrete, more concrete proposal, because I think that if they got it on the table, that it would be okay, a lot of the parliamentary group would also confirm it. Now, to demand, because I also hear, colleagues, as far as others are concerned, you can't ask the landlord to rent the apartment or sell the apartment. Property is our Constitution, property, I mean, a protected matter. You can't ask him to be one now. He'll have to rent. I don't understand it here. But I think it's true right now, really, last time, that we're starting to think very seriously about the construction of these ten-year apartments is not really building, for decades, for the market, I'm talking about non-profit apartments. [[…]] You know, even in the countryside, I mean, it could start building on a different system. This is where he has to get the system, the country, the way he started to build. This real estate transfer, and this can be the first step, we can call it, can't we? This is where we transfer the property. However, everything needs to be reconstructed, because if it is not designed for housing, it is necessary to build a new building, because, if the parcels are intended, not all plots are designed for housing, certain plots are in industrial areas, they are in agricultural land and so we cannot say all that is OK by default. But I believe that quite a lot of plots can, at this point, be owned by the state, by the DUTB, which could be transferred and used for construction purposes. You know, one thing we don't benefit from here is private construction, dedicated private construction. This, abroad, is quite taken into account. Thus, in the future, the housing fund is agreed, with a certain investor, for a specified price, to buy the apartment at one such price. This is purely normal work abroad, it is not burdened by the housing fund with this, it is agreed in advance, at a location, at a plot, what it will build at what price it is exactly for redemption and for further sale or for rent, for rent, what our proposal in the SAB was, in our programme, that this rent would then, in part, be paid back to the place, let's say that this would be paid off, this rent to be counted for the purchase and so on, that it would then be paid off. [[…]] It's, more variants, more in the system, which is [[…]] It's just that we have to start thinking seriously about this. When we were in government, we really thought that we would solve this problem, or at least that we would do it in one way or another. The current coalitions, the previous opposition, for so many years, were, every few months, some kind of proposal. [[Incomprehensible]] Why don't they put it on the table now, which is absolutely necessary? I repeat, since it would probably be confirmed by a large majority. All those governments that have come up have been “loosing”, I can say, domestically, do not, full of mouths, these problems, with these apartments, we all know that they exist, we all know that problems, in particular, come to this, do not take any steps. [[Incomprehensible]] We don't take any steps in this direction. Today would be a very good step for this law to be passed. I don't see anything special. I don't see anything wrong with this marriage. Fair enough, written. Nothing like that, and let's get on with it. [[Incomprehensible]] That can only be the basis, right? It's not such a complication. You know, there's one thing that we don't benefit from, what I mentioned earlier, private construction for the purposes of non-profit housing. I will repeat this once again – this is us an organization, a housing fund or anyone who could negotiate at the level of the congregation, for example, or at the level of those who have parcels who would like to build it, with a precise redemption price. I believe a lot of people would build with that purpose. Normally, each company has to pay its employees, say, and everything, some small profits, but not now that the three times price comes, what's going on now. Because look, construction, material costs the same everywhere, the same. Where's the three-time, four-time price? I'm not going into the details. I know exactly what this is about. We should really walk in here together and see what it is. Also, you know, municipalities, there are certain things that can't turn municipalities into housing buildings because they also have, I could say, this vinculation, the prohibition that they can use a municipal spatial plan for certain new construction areas, as a speculative one, unless they prove that they are actually meant for the market, for non-profit housing. Here, too, the country could put pressure on the municipalities of certain areas. One list of people’s needs, how many of them are true in each congregation, who is interested in buying, who is interested in renting — that is what we must come to. Do we have a list like that? We don't have it. Once you have to start thinking a little bit longer, not only do we use apartments. Who's going to buy the apartments, where they're going to buy the apartments? The state can help in a hundred ways, but you also have to start thinking very seriously about it, don't you think? I think it's not just a matter of one department, one ministry, that we should be dealing specifically with the interdepartmental matter together. There are several sources here that should deal with this, this problem. And now, I repeat, it is a real time that the government, if you really care about our young families, about people, about our craftsmen, about our children, all that is, that you start to think seriously about this problem, because the problem exists and is very big. And here really, really think. Not everyone demands that they be in the centre of Ljubljana. I think that most people who don't even like being in the centre of Ljubljana are more important than the periphery. That is why I say that there is an important interdepartmental conversation here, including through the organisation of transports in a different way, too many cars in the city itself. And that's all about the other guy. One strategy right to write. Do not write nonsense, development strategies by 2050, which then we know that after three years we can throw everything in the trash because it's not worth anything. Realistically, the goals must be realistic, attainable, not imaginary, visionary. And if this were to begin to represent each congregation’s plan together with the housing fund, there would probably be some concrete results. And I absolutely believe that. So once again, I support this law and we will also support this marriage at the Alenka Bratušek Party. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. The mealmaker gave up his word by now getting the word "magic." Dušan Verbich. But get ready, Mr. Franz Kramar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. The secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues who are present, a very nice greeting. I consider the proposal of the proposer ahead of us to be a well-meaning one that points to a major problem in the Republic of Slovenia for decades, and this is a lack of housing. It's called young, young families, as well as older ones, and if I somehow round it up, in short, those who simply can't afford to buy their own apartment. And here I think I will not miss much if I make an assessment that no government and no coalition has paid sufficient attention to this area in these decades, and that is why we are where we are. In this part I will still touch on this because the purpose of the general debate is also the following questions - whether the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the municipal housing funds in all these decades have indeed fully fulfilled their mission. Here I am referring primarily to the so-called municipal housing funds in the municipalities, which we know are the biggest problems in terms of rental relationships mainly in larger cities, and here we certainly have to expose the largest city municipality, so to speak, the capital. According to my information or behaviour, they are working hard to move on this segment, and I must admit that as much as they are successfully coping with it, the reality is completely different. In particular, the need for rents from year to year is significantly beyond the ability and will in this case also of the municipal housing fund. Today's proposal by the Left Group, I am assessing, must be seen in two ways. The first aspect is certainly the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, as regards its establishment, its purpose as well as its activities and competences. However, in the second part, which is somehow linked to this specific proposal from the Group, I personally wonder whether the proposer, who made a similar proposal to the National Assembly a year ago, would like to give such a proposal only a welcome message to the public to address the housing problem of young and socially disadvantaged groups. In doing so, I stress in particular, with the behaviour and awareness of the proposalers, that such an approach simply cannot solve and solve the problem - I repeat, this is my modest opinion - only within a relatively reasonable time frame, and we know that these are areas that are simply, in a year or two, almost impossible to resolve; I will devote a few more words to this in the future or in the other part of my debate. Personally, I can immediately say that I am not in favour of this proposal, especially because of the fact that such a topic simply needs to be resolved through the Housing Law and through the Resolution on the National Housing Programme; I will also say a few more words about this below. I think that many times in the National Assembly, at any time, the essence and significance of some of the provisions of the law that have been adopted in the past are somewhat blurred. The fact is that in 2012 there was an extremely large financial crisis in the Republic of Slovenia, if I may say so, particularly in the area of the financial sector, which was mainly caused by banks owned by the State, namely Nova Ljubljanska Banka, NKBM, Abanka, Probanka and Factor Banka. And the key to this so-called 5-billion-dollar bank hole, which was caused by these state-owned banks, were two issues, namely, capital inadequacy and the other, as found below, a high percentage of poor claims. And in order to resolve the financial situation of the financial sector in the Republic of Slovenia, a company was established to carry out bank claims with very clear and unequivocal competence and I think that we are also very aware of this here. If I say very simply, the DUTB was established primarily for the purpose of clearing the designated banks with these bad claims, and that these banks normally operate with the loss of financial transactions in full authority, the poor claims are transferred to the DUTB and I stress that it was established to recover the assets received from the transfer of these bad claims. And again, I would like to stress those famous €5 billion. However, a few words about the DUTB, because I think it is right to discuss how necessary and necessary to resolve housing leases in the Republic of Slovenia, but you know, sometimes we just have to be aware of the fact that somehow there is no way that you will somehow go beyond existing regulation because you are going to pursue a goal. And once again, I stress that any coalition, any government in these decades, has given little or no attention to these problems, and there are actually problems. If I'm still on DUTB. The company for the execution of bank claims is a legal person who is legally organised in a way that we know as a shareholder and under the company law, a shareholder company is set up to generate profits. There's nothing here to further comment on. DUTB is one of the key issues, as has already been said, for stabilising financial transactions. However, I will not engage in this activity in any way in the first place, because I think you know what you know, but that matter, which is an additional reason that I am not in favour of this proposal by the proposer, is also related to the following fact. In one way or another, the Bank of Slovenia is also closely linked to the European Central Bank as well as the Bank of Slovenia, since the fact is that both institutions must inform the DUTB of all their competences and activities regarding the so-called transferred claims and the cashing of transferred claims only in the direction, if I may say so, of the economy and anything else that may result in the company being as successful as it can be. And in this context, I must say the following. All those who are thinking and who have also touched in their debate that the DUTB is somehow appropriate to reach out to this kind of thing, assistance, so-called housing fund and so on, would make it very clear from my point of view that I will also say in the following some of the so-called bad practices of DUTB, which also took place in the area of so-called real estate sales, as well as in the sale of claims, that I will not also speak that priority, which is one of the key issues, and in the following few words. In 2017 alone, I strongly supported, when the proposal was before the Members, the extension of the mandate of the DUDB, which is now extended by law until 2022. You know, and at the time, let's say to this conviction that this society needs to be extended, it was one of the key reasons so. the restructuring of companies that are in one way or another, or with their shares or that under mortgage or with additional purchase of claims, came under the Bank's Claims Management Company. And I have to admit that a lot of things have been done well, but they have been, and perhaps even today, cases that are intoxicating, which, in terms of the responsible owner and the principle of economy, should not normally have happened here. And then I will conclude in this regard why I am firm in this position. The fact is that it was somehow realistically expected that the restructuring of individual companies or companies, whether internal-organisational or financially, would resolve a number of companies, which in one way or another, have somehow gone under the umbrella of the DUTB and would allow them to revive their own production or to continue the business processes initiated, which were interrupted precisely because of the so-called so-called ‘i.e. of these poor claims. Unfortunately, in a number of cases, as I said, that didn't happen. Somehow that bad practice in the management of DURB is certainly one area, which is also the subject of the proposer, is said to be real estate, whether it be land or objects. Now, the sale of these properties, as well as the purpose of the law itself on the DUTB, is primarily about obtaining the highest possible or highest price according to the principle of economy. Not because of any views, including when I initially mentioned why a shareholder company was set up, but mainly because of the reason and purpose to obtain or return in the budget as much money as possible, which taxpayers had to invest in those banks in the long-standing period through recapitalisation and all processes that go hand in hand. The fact is that in these, including reverberative, real estate sales, they were literally abused by domestic and foreign entities that appeared as buyers. It is clear that they could not have abused themselves if it were not on the part of the members of the management board of DUTB or the executive directors as managers of this company. As far as these properties are concerned, I have only a few words left to say, that it certainly was not economically economic in a number of cases, mainly because of the so-called so-called. The DutB administrator, regardless of who was on the government, the authorities, even in the time of Cerara's government, which I was a member of this coalition, had been able to generate additional costs that were simply not recoverable. I'll just give you two examples. It is unreasonable that in the course of the sale or disposal of real estate, and perhaps not long ago, that more than ten valuations of different value holders were ordered before the sale or transfer itself. For what purpose? Certainly not in line with the principle of economy. The second is that they invested further in the improvement of real estate, which was known in advance that any cost would not come back from the increase in sales value, rather to sell below the estimated value. And if I end up in this part somehow, I think that the key thing that happened at the time in this transfer was that the claims were transferred mainly at high values. And when claims and real estate were sold, it's the one that I think is also painful for taxpayers to sell on such high discounts. This, if I may say, is just a controlled liquidation of Factor and Pro Bank, which has joined and has come under the umbrella of DUTB, I hope to say that this is a picture of some kind of management, a legal entity that is 100 % state owned, away from the responsible owner and here, so-called part of the executive power, certainly does not honor them that this has somehow happened. Just two more words, and I'll finish as far as DUTB is concerned. The fact is that DUTB was in the system or management process, somehow defined as a single system and my modest position is that a single system of government property management is simply not acceptable in the Republic of Slovenia and I will also tell you why I do not think it is acceptable. This so-called executive branch of government, specifically the Ministry of Finance, has control over the management of the DUTB, which is certainly and in accordance with the law. But, its control, under the Act on Economic Companies and Corporate Governance, is primarily control over the legality of business and, as a rule, it is never, in principle, disputed. However, the biggest problem in this single management system is that the board of directors is fully independent in decision-making and in law-making, and the fact is that this board of directors has a so-called, executive and supervisory function. I would understand that, too, but in the Republic of Slovenia there is a problem in particular, in persons who are primarily appointed as the Chairman of the Management Board, as well as of the Main Executive Board. And here we, including in the area of DutB and administrative property, have the biggest problem. I am moving on to another matter, regarding the proposal, as much time as I have left. Look, the coalition contract of this coalition is clearly recorded. Renovation of housing policy, an increase in the housing fund, with emphasis on young and young families, the establishment of a systemic source for housing construction, and the raising of earmarked, budgetary resources, and also further, the construction of rental apartments. This is what I hope from the commitment of the coalition treaty, that even in this mandate the necessary movement, which has not improved significantly for decades, will actually be made. Now, if I am still on the proposal from the proposer, I must first and foremost touch on the resolution on the national housing programme, which has already been mentioned, in today's debate. The Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is the main provider of housing policy, and what I particularly welcome in this resolution is the following: the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia must, first of all, become a provider of public rental apartments, because the current role of the investor and the builder of apartments for sale, what the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia is supposed to carry out, must be replaced by the role of the provider and guardian of rental apartments, thereby contributing to greater accessibility of dwellings and, as the coalition contract states, means, resources and conditions, for the establishment of this system must be different, but not that, by the proposal of the company for the management of bank receivables, somehow, it wishes to resolve, which I hope to say to myself, that this is only, but only, nicely heard, operationally or operationally, but I think that this is very little success. Why do I place great emphasis on the housing fund, whether it's a republican or a municipal fund? See, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia already has several projects in preparation, more projects for the construction of public rental apartments and there is no secret that, according to some public data, this speech is over € 160 million and for which this Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia has also committed itself, it is not possible to foresee that any significant shift in a relatively short time, as has already been mentioned by the proposer, will not be able to achieve in due time what he himself has set his goal. Now any transfer of real estate from DUTB to the Housing Fund, which is supposed to be highly optimistic, is a particular observation. If we are no longer able to exercise that responsibility more or less through our own programme. Only words relating to the transfer proposed in this Article 10b of the Bank's Credit Stability Act. Here I must admit that somehow I will return to the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, which gave its opinion in this regard last year. The fact is that the Law-Legal Service has pointed out, in view of the competences of the current Law on the Management of Banks' Credit Stability and this concern about the realisation of public interest in housing policy through the non-payment of real estate transfers to the Fund, it is not compatible, as I mentioned in the introduction, with the objectives of the law itself, which we have set up as the real Company for the Management of Bank Claims. In short, I conclude that this proposal certainly calls for things to start moving in one way or another, but I do not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The Replica has a proposaler. Here you are, Mr. Moon or on behalf of the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Thank you for this debate. I'd like to respond to a few things. Now, Mr Verbič has started his position by saying that this is a nice proposal, but that he does not know whether the applicant's intention is to be particularly liked or something else so that I would just like to say what we also wrote in the explanation of the law why we are now proposing this law for the second time. This law was proposed in a slightly different form last year under the Sharčev government, at the time it was not adopted, but it was adopted by the Government that the Government, as the DUTB Assembly, would charge the bad bank to transfer the 9 properties of the bad bank to the Housing Fund. Three were transferred or three contracts were concluded, and for the other six days ago, we were on the Committee on Finance when I asked the secretary - I think the secretary from the Ministry of Finance - what was going on was said to be frozen or stopped at the government once and we decided to try again with this law to encourage the transfer of these properties to the Housing Fund of a bad bank. This is the intention of the proposer. Now, perhaps, as far as other things are concerned. More than once, we have heard today that the DURB was established to clear the bad balance sheets or the balance sheets of bad claims, and then to make the last stand to the maximum possible value and thereby reimburse the taxpayers we had to pay in the state treasury or were damaged in any way for EUR 5 billion with a bank hole. Of course I agree with that. The problem is the difference between us and those who point out this is that we do not see that the highest possible value here is necessarily financial. If, as Natasha said earlier, we sell these lands for 50 million euros and then start to resolve housing policy and tell the Housing Fund to acquire comparable land, it is very likely that it will pay more for them than we would pay now if they were transferred from bad banks. It is said that the highest possible value for taxpayers is to transfer these land to the Housing Fund at a favourable price and thus ensure the favourable construction of non-profit dwellings. This will be the best long-term benefit; but if we only talk for a short time, how to optimize the value now, then, of course, we sell. But if we sell, then we need to know that we have taken a step back in housing policy and that housing policy can therefore be a few 10 million euros more expensive when the state actually does. And last but not least, the coalition treaty of the present government. True, I myself went to her brother and I noticed commitments to increase the fund for the construction of public rental apartments, raise budgetary resources and so on. And if the coalition intends to fulfil its coalition treaty, I think that this proposal can only understand in one way, and this is, as a step towards implementing this treaty. Of course, more will have to be done in the fall. We are now good two months before the budget rebalancing, then the Housing Fund will need to be strengthened so that it can also start implementing this policy in human and financial terms. In the summer, however, we do not see any obstacles in Levica, so that we do not use this time to at least transfer these lands and take some small first step towards finally getting this country a European comparable housing policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The next one has the word mag. Andrej Reich, get Mr. Gregor Perič ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Housing policy, housing issues in Slovenia are a very pressing issue. There's practically no government that would never meet her and try to save her. The transfer of land cases from a bad bank to the Housing Fund or housing funds is a step in the right direction. However, this is not the only necessary and necessary measure. Before further substantive measures, we need to review the situation, so we need to know how many apartments we need, how many they are on the market, how many they are in inappropriate use, and under this inappropriate use I also understand that someone lives in too many or too few apartments because of different living conditions. Let me say that housing funds have a major problem with not paying rent, not paying the operating costs they have to charge for their tenants, and this, of course, makes it difficult for them to do business. A typical example is the Medo-Chinese Housing Fund of the Municipality of Maribor, which was actually forced to sell out because of the situation in which it was located. And it would be in this light that we would need a comprehensive overview of the needs of housing, that is, the official document, not the assessment, by the municipalities and by the municipalities in general, and also the cadastral fund. Personally, I have never been inclined to introduce a short-term lease system into housing blocks, because this means a breakdown of the bloc's social structure. This is especially evident in the covid epidemic now. Imagine living in an apartment block, and someone comes along who's infected with this virus, what's going to happen to all the residents, what's going to happen to them. And I also don't think it's right that, on the basis of some agreement, the purpose of the block from the apartment to the hotel can be changed, and I don't think it's an abuse of legislation and it's not the purpose of the apartment block, nor has it been paid an appropriate municipal contribution to change its use in this way. As I said before, what we are talking about today is also the cause of the anomalies in the housing market and the high prices that we are witnessing and which do not have a basis in the income of our citizens, indicating that systemic measures are needed here. We observe that we have virtually no professional enterprises that, apart from housing funds, would be a municipal or state housing fund that manages and distributes real estate. For example, it is common for pension companies to invest in housing projects and to enable, in fact, one systemic way of renting apartments, but we usually face individual rents on the market, which is also an anomaly, of course, that we do not pay professional companies to do so, and for individuals. And this is a matter that the state, the government, will have to solve. Also to approach the establishment of alternative housing communities in a way. They also have an opportunity abroad to save their pension through the purchase of an apartment. I think it's a good proposal, a good practice. Remember, this practice is not possible with us, and if, therefore, when someone wants to save for a pension, he is paid rent for an apartment for any more specific deficit, so that there is not enough funds available for pension savings, let alone that he can dream of buying an apartment at these prices. Therefore, it would also make sense to allow the repayment of the credit for the purchase of apartments to be considered as a long-term savings for the purchase, i.e. for the pension. This is one thing that you can also understand as a proposal. That's another thing. When we also talk about housing offers on the Slovenian market, we do not have clear standards, guidelines. Even if you are reading real estate ads, you will notice that it is never really clear how big an apartment is that is being sold. And here I regret that in the amendment to the Real Estate Intermediation Act we have not defined this more clearly. They talk about gross, net surface - basement and auxiliary rooms are not part of the apartment, but are auxiliary rooms and should be clearly marked everywhere, unfortunately not. And of course this contributes to confusion in the real estate market. We must be aware, however, that the problem is complex, that we must, in fact, strive as a society to have enough rents available at a reasonable price, and therefore the cadastral of the existing market and the situation is still important if we are to resolve matters in real time. And of course, this is also a rational path, because, in fact, the spatial planning law itself leads us to take advantage of existing infrastructure, the existing building fund before we start building a new one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Perič gave up his word. Mrs. Gregorčič, I presume? So the next debater is Mr Boštjan Koražija. Get ready as the last two, Dr. Tashner Vatovec and Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u100	Madam President, thank you very much. In fact, now that I am listening to these discussions today in the National Assembly, these political footnotes are constantly being used to appeal to something that he has done something for a purpose. Yes, in fact, we have proposed a law or a proposal for amendments and additions just to finally resolve the problem of real estates or dwellings in Slovenia, in general, when it comes to health, even when it comes to young, young families, as well as those who are socially disadvantaged. Now, when it comes to DUTB, it is often said that this is a matter of some kind, or a company that exists on a planet that is not part of Slovenian, or part of the country of Slovenia. This also makes me particularly and very sad, and it also makes a lot of sense constantly when I listen to such discussions, because, in fact, it was also established that, not only is it helpful, but it also helps with the restructuring. And it is also our business, or our point, or the point of this proposal that we, in fact, help, or make a suggestion that the DUTB will also release them, or that it will help to make it possible in this real estate market, that people can get more easily and even cheaper to their homes, which we know in Slovenia not only lack them, but I am afraid that even with some planned policy of the last 10, 20 years, even this has been somehow intentional and produced, I will not only suggest that I do not know exactly all things, but with regard to the feeling that even when I talk to young people, they also constantly warn me that they have enough of constantly being politically resolved, but they want to work things out professionally, it is true when it comes to their problem, whether it is an apartment or something else. And here I see even, the whole problem of these discussions in the National Assembly, that we offer a good professional solution quite often, of course we are constantly ready to talk or talk, on suggestions, on suggestions, on anything, and then on our proposals, I will say, in a political, some narrative, it is said that it does not respond professionally, although I must welcome Mr Verbic that his discussions are usually very professional, no, I must admit. A lot of people are also very politically responding to our proposal or whatever. As we have already said, we have a serious problem in Slovenia, and I think that it is a time-consuming time not only to start to solve it, but today is an ideal opportunity not to solve it, or to save it in the long run, and I think that we must all be aware of it here today, and even the current coalition, or even the party, the main, coalition, SDS, has been constantly, when it was in opposition, it has always been very popular, I will say in quotations, because it is also a lot of times that we have been in society or in the country, and we have also supported it a lot of times, not so that we like the proposals, but because they have been proposals that really solved some actual situation or some actual problem, whether it is in society or in the country. And I also expect from them this constructiveness back or that they will also be so constructive in the future, and also when we propose either solutions or laws, however they will listen and perhaps even support something. What else was I thinking? In fact, look, I don't know now, but I'm meeting a lot of different social groups, and there's always one thing that, I think, is really going to have to think about it and make some self-reflection politically, even socially, in fact, too much in this National Assembly, not just politicizes, but actually politicizes with some data or even facts or even non-real ones or even non-real ones. And I think that we will also have to sit down in this National Assembly once and for all, and we will also talk among ourselves about, for example, when there are some broadcasts of some untruths or stories that are attracted to the hair, that we will also, once, not only sanction ourselves, but also somehow ethically and morally approach it, not. That's it for now, and I'll apply for the debate back, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The next one has the word Dr. Matej Tašner Vatovec and is prepared as the last Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u102	Yes, thank you very much, Vice President. Now with these arguments that we have heard, especially in our views, the debate has not been much about this law, I always get the feeling that there are ways to look for ways not to do something, but the other way around is to say how to do something. Now, if I first touch on the main two arguments for the adoption of this law, that is, what is the true purpose of the Company for the performance of bank claims, and that this law is contrary to this main purpose of the bad bank and the other problem you have, this indemnity, why the DUTB would give free of charge, as my colleague Horvat said, this land is in line with housing. These arguments are, in fact, linked and my answer to this is somehow related. Now the first thing about the DUTB's purpose is that Luke has already touched on this issue. Yeah. The DUDB has somehow taken over the 5 billion or a billion and a half burdens that have remained in these bad claims since the crisis and, above all, when we are the inhabitants and inhabitants of this country, or when the country has put these 5 billion to repair the bank hole, it has set up to somehow try to return to people what they have invested in banks. What happened at the time was that, as a society, we actually financed these losses that the banks had and, on the other hand, the profits that were generated at the time of the establishment of the DUTB were thus privatised or best taken away by those who actually made those debts. That's one thing. So one thing is that at one point we should stop solving the DUTB and look for other solutions or its other functions, and surely one of these other functions should also be this public interest that we have. But on DUTB stands some land, the Housing Fund has identified them, which are useful for the work of the Housing Fund and, as we say, if these land were transferred to the Housing Fund, we could have, as we would like to say in recent years, this could have some multiplier effects. In short, even if DUTB had lost that 1% of the inflows due to such a transfer, this would have benefited, on the other hand, and since these are all institutions that are essentially state-owned or public-owned, there are no serious losses or reservations. So much for what it is or what the DUTB might be about. As far as unpaidness is concerned, as well as the transfer that took place with the Government's decision, we already have a problem with this. Here we have a problem, which is essentially the case with what laws the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia must act on one hand, and this is the Real Estate Act of the State of Local Communities, which provides that when purchasing or acquiring some new real estates, when a valuation is made, the public housing fund should also take into account the value of the purpose, it is said that these are non-profit public dwellings, which is a discrescue with housing for the market, if so named, in short, some appreciater who would work for DUTB, of course, would assess the value of these land significantly higher, and here we have this imbalance between what the actual values of these land for housing funds or for DUTB. Therefore, we also propose that the state act as an intermediary here, or that it should first transfer these properties to the Republic of Slovenia, because it could also be in accordance with other laws, such as the Public Funds Act, then the State can transfer these properties to the Housing Fund and then be considered as an extension of the Housing Fund. So this is also in fact the most rational solution, this free transfer from DUTB to the Republic of Slovenia to the public housing fund is most rational in this respect. But this story, in fact, has, since we first proposed this law in Levica, shown essentially what we have been stressing all the time, the lack of priority. What are the priorities? In Levica, we argue that housing policy should be one of the key priorities not only at this time but over the last ten years, and that this area has been more than successfully overlooked. And unfortunately, this epidemic has also shown that delays in this area, housing policy backlogs and public investment in housing policy have shown what problems this can cause us in times of crisis, in times of recession and so on. And the epidemic, like we had it, instead of actually being an excuse for the government to do something, even for people who live in rentals and so on, but unfortunately it was the other way around. So the epidemic has become an excuse for the government not to do anything. For example, in the case of Austria, at the time of the declared epidemic, rent freezes. In Berlin, rent growth was limited. In Slovenia, however, we simply overlooked this issue, although we suggested in Levica that this issue should also be addressed, but there was no hearing for it. Further, in the first anti-corrosion package, when we talked about freezing loans for the duration of the epidemic or another year after that, we proposed, of course, that we freeze interest along with loans, but not. The government has rather decided that interest will continue and this is also a high interest, for example, on housing loans that have also affected people's ability to cope with this crisis. As Luka has already said, the Government then froze the transfer of the remaining properties that were on the 17th transfer list and thus showed in fact where the real priority of this government is with regard to the housing issue. That, in fact, it is more important to provide an additional percentage of the DUTB inflows, so that their liquidity image is better than, rather than risking this percentage and these apartments, these properties, these land actually transferred to the housing fund, where, with the aid coming from the European Commission in fact, it would be possible to start a housing fund, to allocate sufficient resources to it, along with this step, by some basic set of real estates that it would have and additional financial injections from the budget, start building those fewer than ten thousand dwellings or even more and actually start to address people's housing problems. It would be kind of very easy in fact to do in these parameters, as we say would be the first step. Of course, no one makes the illusion that this transfer is some land that will solve the housing issue or the issue of housing policy in Slovenia. But he's one of the steps we could use. From this point of view, of course, once again, I stress, there are always reasons why not do something as well as the reasons, how to take advantage of something in order to do it. In conclusion, we have a resolution in force on the national housing programme. It was adopted in 2015, 2014 for a 10-year period where it is also very clear that the property used by DUTB in this respect can be used for public benefit. It is said that these land is transferred from DUTB to the Housing Fund. The question now is, how and when, five years from the adoption of this resolution. I think it's been about 20 years since the non-functional housing policy in this country, and I think it's time now to start not talking about it, but to work seriously on how the housing fund will be adequately financed and that it will be able to build these missing capacities that they need. Young people need them, young families need them, workers, young people, and older ones need them. And that's the only way we can normalize this area in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u103	Thank you very much. And as the last discusser, Mr. Ljubo Žnidar. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Everyone in the hall is probably aware that the DUTB will not solve the housing problem we have in the Republic of Slovenia. It is true that the basic task of the DUTB is to deal economically with the transferred claims of the banks and that there is also a large number of housing funds and other properties in this part. But DUTB has to act here primarily as a caring and good master with this property. Many times today were the dilemmas about whether these transfers were to be carried out in payment or free of charge. In my view, there is no big difference; in any case, it is necessary to cut into a state financial small, one way or another. Somewhere this part is created, which is also related to funds or, in fact, if I say so domestically or financially, to book the matter. Of course, today it has also been heard that there have been many popular proposals by the parties regarding solutions to the housing problem. Let us see what these examples actually look like in practice. See, a resolution was adopted in 2015. It's been five years. What are the results of this resolution 2015-2025? No results, no successes. There was no solution to the housing problems of young families. So let's be more specific here. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed quite a few kind of proposals, but they have not been adopted, endorsed and could not be implemented, because if you are in opposition lines, you are making proposals that are not accepted, then of course you cannot make good proposals, enforce them, and also bring them to the point where they can see the light of the world, or to the extent that you can solve the housing problem. It is true that even the Housing Fund does not have the right powers, the right functions, the right, clear and precise strategies to solve housing problems in the Republic of Slovenia. I can tell you a very practical case I experienced in England, Cambridge. The owners of the house, husband and wife, were both in their early years, were about 67, 68 years old, and boasted that they had paid off their house loan, and I have to say, right in the elite part of Cambridge. And I asked them, I said, "This was a very unfavourable loan that they paid off this loan at their age for so long." They say: “No, no, no, this loan was very convenient.” He was very favourable because they were extremely low interest rates, even the partial subsidy was, and he was remunerated for a very long time. So this was a very nice loan for them. We have also proposed in the Slovenian Democratic Party that very favourable loans be offered in particular for the favourable rescue of young families. Of course, it costs something, too. Indeed, no solution to the housing problem will work without costs. But the point in this case, in this segment, is that the real solution to the housing problem for young people in Slovenia leads to practice, is said to be applied. That's essential. Of course, we will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, because it is also in the opinion of the draft law as a risk that the financial burden on the budget is not defined. We know that in every law it is necessary to present urgently what it means to adopt a law and what the financial implications of the budget are. This is what I miss in this proposal for this law; it is not a real calculation of how this law would actually affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. By not supporting this proposal, however, we are happy to support any good proposal that will in practice solve the housing problem mainly for young people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u105	Thank you very much. This brings us to the conclusion of the general debate, which gives us the word of a representative of the government and a candidate. A representative of the government, would you like a word? Don't you? Proposer? Here you go, Mr. Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I thank everyone for the constructive debate, but I would like to say a few things for the end. Now, first of all, as regards what my predecessor, Ljubo Žnidar, has concluded, the implications for the budget. I stress that we are transferring or proposing the transfer of assets from DURB to the housing fund – from one state pocket to another state pocket. So nothing changes in that sense. But if you want to know what the value of 50 million in government debt looks like, then I'll repeat what I said earlier. Currently, according to the SURS, the state debt is 31.74 billion, if you add 50 million to it, that's 31.79. So we're talking here about some shift that goes into decimals as far as the scale of our debt is concerned, as a percentage, everything stays the same. With all the anti-korona measures the government will take this year, however, it is expected that public debt will increase by a few billion, to 80% of GDP, especially in the light of the fact that economic growth will also decline. In fact, public debt is measured as an absolute amount of debt with the country's GDP in the current year. Anyway, that's not the most important thing. the short-term impact on public finances is negligible. Actually, I'm a little worried. I am concerned about your concerns about the negative consequences for public finances, the stability of the DUB balance sheet and so on – as well as the fact that this is the most important thing in the world. I'd like to tell another story. We're not just talking about apartments here, we're not just talking about young people. we are talking about social mobility within this society. According to SURS, if you want to take a look, it is reported that 13,000 500 people have moved out of Slovenia last year. The year before, 2018, they were supposed to move out, according to a report from one of the newspapers that I now found on Google, 9 thousand 900. In short, they've been moving out for generations. This year, a total of 6,000 800 students signed up for the graduation, and 10 thousand 400 for the professional prom, says a total of about 17,000 people. 17,000 people went to prom, 13,000 500 moved out - that's what we're talking about. And what does the apartment have to do with this? Look, the housing issue is key to social mobility. In the 19th century and the early 20th, when we were still kind of breaking loose from the feudal order, there were also a lot of people from Slovenia going to the United States. Why were the U.S. countries then promised? Because in Europe, human destiny was somehow quite fixed at birth. If you were born into an elite family, an aristocracy, you inherited your wealth, and you didn't have to fight for it. If you were born into a less happy family, into a family of subordinates, you had no prospect of ever gaining wealth in life. I am concerned that in the 21st century, as far as wealth inequality is concerned, we are actually returning to a world like this. If you imagine a man of Slovenian periphery, this is the end of the day, also my personal experience, which comes to Ljubljana and thinks that he would buy an apartment here, the family does not have much property, because houses on Slovenian periphery are not worth much, and wages in Slovenia are not insanely high, so the prices of real estate in Slovenian places, especially in Ljubljana, on the coast and in some other urban centres are extremely high. We are talking about the costs of 250 000, 300 000, 350 000 euros, and such a person has no other perspective than to choose a rental, which is also expensive, if we are talking about an apartment suitable for a family, there, at least 70 square meters, below 700 euros a month, in Ljubljana, you will not find it anymore, plus the cost of living at home or, of course, there is a third option to try it abroad. In fact, if you put yourself in the skin of a 30-year-old who is 30 years-old, I would like to solve the housing issue with a partner, a partner and must take, I don't know, 250 000 Euros of credit, which means that he will sign a credit agreement that will end, practically when he retires when he is 60 years old or over, but in the meantime he will raise another 100, 150 000 Euros of interest. That's the perspective we're talking about right now. In short, we are not talking about apartments, we are talking about social mobility and people going abroad are leaving largely because they are abroad, in cities like Vienna or Berlin, which are a fairly popular destination for the people of my generation, a significantly better relationship between earnings and the price of housing. I know some people like that. At the moment, a friend of mine is also in my apartment, visiting, from Berlin, and she moved out simply because of better prospects. That's where she got a better job, where she got an apartment at an affordable price. Unfortunately for young people in Slovenia, this moment is not, and if the country does not start moving things, neither will it. I repeat, 17,000 people went to prom this year, 13 thousand 500 moved out of the country last year, and I repeat what I said at the beginning, almost half of my generation, I am talking about young people between 25 and 30 years old, living with their parents, because they can't afford their apartments, and it's not true, as one member of the Slovenian National Party said earlier, if all generations have had such a position. That's not true. Sometimes you had to work hard to get to the apartment, but you could get to the apartment with hard work in seven, ten years. Today, people at 30 years of age, with abrasive interest, at rent prices, sign credit contracts for the next 30 years, which will end when they are 60 years old, will virtually be on the verge of retirement when they pay them off. But such perspectives, no one wants to, and only we, in this room, have the opportunity to break this vicious circle. That's why I'd like to end by asking you to support this law. I can agree with those who say that this law will not solve the housing issue. Of course not, but he'll start solving the housing issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. However, since the time set for the debate has remained, I ask whether you wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Yeah.]] I only see one application - Mrs. Moica the Boxer. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I must say that I truly understand the intention and understand what Mr. President Luke Moon has said. I believe you're trying to resolve this situation. Banks were saved with taxpayers' money. This money must be returned to them in the budget to provide public services, education, health care, the military, police, infrastructure. We need this money, and we're gonna need it even more. I think it is necessary to create such a situation in society so that people can earn enough to afford a normal rent or purchase an apartment. It is true, as the predecessor Mr Ljubo Žnidar said in England, that you hire a loan and pay it back by the end of your working life so that you can repay a house of sorts. What the state can do in my opinion is that by means of an instrument for regulating space, it encourages the construction of residential neighborhoods, which is a combination of protected dwellings and dwellings for young families. With a long - term care project, some of the young people in these neighborhoods could also get a job as personal assistants to the elderly in protected homes. The neighborhoods should be relatively close to a unit of health homes, and in such neighborhoods the country could also offer non-profit rents for young doctors, their families, and nurses and technicians. Many of these are indeed going abroad today for a better salary. At the same time, the thought, question, dilemma, or way of dealing with housing funds and similar things is the only optimal option for young people to get housing. I think the binding of space and the granting of the right of non-profit rent together in combination may be too bony a system. It would be possible to finance the rent from a special fund, for any built-up apartment anywhere in the country that would meet the standards for the provision of non-profit rents, therefore, it is some standard apartments, not some golden marble wall. By such a measure, if we had a rental subsidy fund with such a measure, the housing offer would be flexible and would follow the needs of the employment market. So we would co-finance the rent to someone anywhere in Slovenia, wherever that person would get a job. This would also lead to greater flexibility as regards employment. However, the fact is that in this case investors would need to build rental apartments for normal rents. This means that it is necessary to create such an environment for investors to build apartments and the country will help young people by subsidising rents anywhere in Slovenia. This is probably a free market that would also help in the labour market, and investors should, of course, be assured that their apartments could also be successfully built so that the economic circumstances could be such. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide in the framework of the votes after the adjourned session. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 18th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed at 2.50 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.14.) (The sitting resumed at 14.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u110	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We're moving to 14. On the basis of the opinion and position of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, that is to say, to the urgency of amending the voluntary legislation in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court number UI32/2015. I give the floor to Mr Borut Pahor, President of the Republic of Slovenia, to present his opinion and opinions. Mr. President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you, Mr. President, for the high choir. As President of the Republic, who signs the call for parliamentary elections, I ask you most respectfully today not to delay and to enforce his decision on electoral law in due time. This deadline expires on 21 December of this year. Thus, the National Assembly has yet six months to adopt a law that is compatible with the Constitution. This is sufficient time for this work to continue immediately and any delay could have fatal consequences. If elections were to be declared under the current legislation, that is, without the application of the Constitutional Court decision, such elections would be subject to a great dark shadow of doubt as to their constitutionality. Our citizens and the citizens we represent rightly expect that this will not happen and that our responsible and thoughtful conduct will safeguard democracy and elections as their electoral pillar. In my opinion, it is a matter of solving the most important constitutional and political problem of modern Slovenia. The timely adoption of a law that will appropriately address the implementation of a constitutional decision on the necessary amendments to electoral law would allow legal and legitimate parliamentary elections without the shadow of such a constitutional doubt. Any delay will increase the risk that Slovenia will for the first time since 1990, when we had our first democratic elections. First, after them, she finds herself in a position where she can't run a credible election. This would plunge our country into a constitutional crisis and perhaps even political chaos. This can't happen. Mr. President, the High Council. On 21 December 2018, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia found that Article 4 of the Law on the establishment of constituency units for the election of Members to the National Assembly, which lays down the areas of electoral districts, is inconsistent with the Constitution. It estimated that for more than a quarter of a century, since the adoption of electoral legislation, the constituencies no longer meet any legal criterion. Differences in the size of electoral thefts have become too great at this time, as they reach almost 1:4, more precisely 1 whole, to 1, 3,73, between the smallest and the largest constituencies. The constituencies are also not in line with the borders of the new municipalities and they no longer meet the requirements for geographical rounding. Therefore, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to enforce the decision within two years, i.e. by 21 December of this year at the latest. The election of members of the National Assembly under the current legislation would be admissible before the expiry of this period. However, the elections after 21 December this year could in no case have been avoided by reasonable indications of their unconstitutionality and illegality if this decision had not been enforced. More than the Constitutional Court has written down in the Constitutional Decision, its failure to implement it would constitute a violation of Article 2 of the Constitution, which provides that, I quote: “Slovenia is a social and legal state.”, the end of the reference and Article 3 of the Constitution, which states: “that it has power of the people in Slovenia.”, the end of the reference. In short, it was clear to all those who were obliged to deal with these matters and also to the public concerned that we were dealing with the ultimate political task of the first category. The High Council, half a year before the expiry of the deadline laid down by the Constitutional Court, shall not take up its task from scratch. Together, we have done a great deal on this issue so far. This gives us the much - needed hope that the final task will be accomplished in a successful and timely manner. Let's take a closer look. Never before - never before - has the Slovenian policy been so fast and so unified as to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision, as in this case. Never before. At the first meeting of January 2019, that is to say, only a bad month later, we decided to start negotiations without delay with the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Parliamentary parties were appointed by two negotiators, in a year — in a year — we met and co-ordinated, in the framework of seven or eight rounds of negotiations. In July 2019, the meeting of the presidents of the parties and the leaders of the parliamentary groups took place again. On this issue, we have also consulted twice in the framework of the traditional meetings of the four presidents and throughout the negotiations, and we have been assisted by the Government working group, which was led by the Minister of Public Administration, Mr Rudi Medved, for which we are all very grateful. We also had informal and formal experts at our disposal at all times on electoral systems and constitutional law, in particular Dr. Cyril Ribičič, Dr. Franz Grad, Dr. Igor Kavčič, Dr. Saša Zagorc and Dr. Yuri Toplek. When we encountered problems, they advised us on legal ways to solve them — discreetly and publicly, before the public at large. Two agreements were reached, both substantive and procedural. First, a substantive agreement. We have agreed that two ways are possible for the Constitutional Court to implement the provisions of the Constitutional Court, namely, the first, the transformation of electoral thefts by changing their borders, and secondly, the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a priority vote that will strengthen the decisive impact of voters on the allocation of sent-mail mandates. Secondly, we have reached a procedural agreement at this time. We have come to agree that the law is put into Parliamentary procedure by Members, with at least as many signatures as the quorum requires for the adoption of the law. In the event of the abolition of electoral thefts and the introduction of a priority vote, this shall be at least 60 Members and, in the event of the conversion of electoral thefts, at least 46 or more. Last November, we concluded negotiations on a draft law that would end the electoral districts and introduce a preferred vote. And we have also started negotiations on a final draft law that would change the border of the constituencies if we decided to do so. 59 Members decided, at the end of January this year, to put a harmonised draft law into the parliamentary procedure, which would end the constituencies and introduce a preferred vote. Regrettably, the vote has shown that there is no need for support for such a change in electoral legislation. Let me say something personal. Although I have tried to negotiate very neutrally, I have never hidden the favour of this amendment of electoral legislation, as I think it would greatly increase the voter's influence on the choice of a Member, although of course I do not deny the arguments that speak against such a solution. There is no perfect electoral system in this world. Mr. President, the National Assembly. Also due to the epidemic, the implementation activities of the decision have not continued since then. That's understandable. At that time, however, I held shorter consultations with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, which I also thank on this site for their excellent cooperation, informal discussions with some of the party presidents and non-hope with you, Mr President, on how to proceed. From all the discussions, I understand that some of the following common positions have been formed. Firstly, it remains agreed that the draft law should be tabled by a group of Members with a number of signatures corresponding to the condition for its adoption. Secondly, the draft law amending the electoral borders should, of course, be prepared by the government. It is difficult for Members to prepare for a type of technical data. It shall be sent to the President of the National Assembly, who shall seek to reach agreement with the heads of the parliamentary groups or authorised negotiators on its content. Once such negotiations have been concluded, such a law as a proposal with the signatures of Members shall be sent to the National Assembly. Thirdly, I understood that there was some general understanding that there was a need to change electoral legislation as a particularly important subject of legislative work, that it should be given priority to procedural and substantive issues and that there was a general political will and responsibility for the adoption of the law this year. Dear Mr. President, the High Council. The timely implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision to amend electoral law is, in my opinion, the central issue of our democracy and the democratic regulation of our society. Before this high assembly, let me put it straight, without the hair on the tongue: if there were no changes to electoral legislation within the prescribed time frame and, in addition, the economic, social, and, finally, the political situation, the elections would no longer be a solution. More clearly, in the event of a political crisis, elections will no longer be a solution, but elections will in themselves be a major, colossal problem. This is why it is too important that we risk its resolution becoming the subject of possible current political conversions. There's no one here to win this – we can all just lose by doing this. I know, honourable Members, also from my conversation with you, from my experience in your place, that people are not interested in this question and have this right. That's why they chose me and you. They are interested in regulating salaries, pensions, unemployment, housing problems, health reforms, and similar important things in life. However, I must, Mr President, if I may make this very clear to us and to all of them, it is true that, due to the consideration and adoption of the necessary amendments to the electoral legislation, not all these problems will be resolved or better. That's right. However, it is also very true that if the necessary amendments to the electoral legislation are not adopted, all these problems will not be solved at all, because the illegality and improbability of the next elections will prevail over the general lack of confidence in the democratic system, the constitutional crisis and, as I said, political chaos may arise. The issue of amending electoral legislation for most people is not an interesting one, but it is a strong concern for all people, until they face constitutionally contested elections, to talk about all other problems, and to talk about such constitutionally contested elections only about their validity or invalidity and not about any other important matters at all. High choir! Let me get this. This year, 30 years have passed since the first democratic elections, to which we Slovenians are so rightly proud. Regardless of any criticism of our democratic development, we can be proud of the past three decades. Slovenia is considered a reputable country, which has been quite successful in eliminating democratic deficits and strengthening fundamental democratic institutions through democratic elections, which no one at home or abroad is challenging. However, there is a danger that we could lose this, but it can also inspire us with some hope, optimism, there is also every possibility that we can avoid this danger and thus further prove to ourselves and to ourselves and to others our determination and commitment to democracy. One year before the 30th anniversary of the establishment of our country, we have the opportunity, by our concrete conduct, to express our awareness that, I would like to say in particular, the establishment of our country has been fostered by a democratic political spring with the first democratic elections at its height and by the key self-sustainment measures that we have adopted in this Chamber on a democratic path and in respect of all the principles of the rule of law. Even in this light, we are all in a position of common concern and responsibility to show our best qualities and, despite the very difficult political and other circumstances, to take decisions that will safeguard our democratic development. I know it's a very difficult task for you to have by the end of the year. In fact, it seems almost impossible, but all of us who represent us rely on you to do it. I thank you for your attention and wish you great success in your work. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u112	To the President of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, I thank you for your opinion and your position. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. I inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order, paragraphs 3, 13, 4, 11, 12 and 5 of the agenda. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda – this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Act on Holidays and Work of Days in the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of a reduced procedure. We shall continue to decide on the amendments tabled, which we shall carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 6. 2020, published on eKlopa. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 1(1). We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. (There were 61 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Levica Group to Article 1(2). On behalf of the parliamentary group, explanation of vote shall be given to Comrade Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you so much for saying that, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Hello! The amendment we tabled in the Levica Group says that the day of sport is only a holiday, provided that the work is free. This present bill therefore offers a day of sport, but, unfortunately, we find it does not provide a basic condition, i.e. enough free time. We understand the intuition and enthusiasm of sport as some builder of society, but we are sworn to the view that it is a fundamental condition for the implementation of this law. So, promoting sport and spending free time with your loved ones in sports and recreation, that is essential conditions in this provision of free time. The day of sport must be free work, so we also propose this supplement by example, for example, a cultural holiday or some of the religious holidays that we mark on the holiday calendar in Slovenia. Only on a day off will it really enable people, workers and workers to take advantage of the day for psychological and physical purposes, to say renewal, revitalising, to spend it with their neighbors, but not to serve only some pianist framework, possibly a political class, who will want to take pictures with athletes or behave with their results. Therefore, we propose this amendment, which says that the day of sport must be or become a day of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? If not, on behalf of my colleague, Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u115	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Of course, I will support the amendment. It is said that this day must actually be a day off. This is because, in fact, as I explained earlier in my discussion, look, most for the excellent sport and also for the sport itself, which has brought us so much and means so much to us, the workers and workers have done the most. It is also right that this day will then be organised so that this day will be free and that all these workers and workers can actually make use of this day for the purpose of sport and also that this day will also be for the promotion of sport and not for the promoters of sport, which in fact you are one, in my opinion, promising or expecting. In the end, all I would say is that if we really mean what we accept and say, then we are also proud of it, the thing is that this day becomes a day off, that it will really be a holiday of sport. As I mentioned earlier, we are really lucky Slovenians that we have really top athletes and, given the results we have, I will say, experienced and also brought to us by these top athletes in previous years is basically every year Slovenians are loaded with sports days in fact almost every other third day. Once again, I will support this amendment and I also ask that others support it, because if we talk about sport and how important it is to us and how much it actually brings us, which is true, you will support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. Disengagement working? [[…]] [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] We vote once again on the amendment of the Left. [[adverts from benches]] Holy light now or isn't it shining? Is it now? We're voting again. It's not working. Abort five minutes. We need to check the device. (The sitting was suspended at 15.15 and resumed at 15.19.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u117	Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are continuing the meeting! We vote on the amendment of the Left to Article 1 under Article 2. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 13 votes against 50. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have put an end to the vote on the amendments and to the second reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted the amendment to Article 1. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the legislature or the government has not informed me that the amendments adopted at second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the parliamentary group, explain the vote, colleague Janja Slug.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I must say again that, of course, the law proposed for the day of Slovenian sport was introduced at the initiative of the Olympic Committee of Slovenia, the association of sports associations, i.e. at the initiative of the athletes themselves, and of course we followed immediately in the SMC. The former composition of the government was followed by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs, our former Minister, who immediately supported the initiative. I think our Slovenian athletes deserve their day, which should be in line with what they have proposed. So the goals of this day are to promote sport, promote high-quality and recreational sport, sport for everyday life, promote sports in kindergartens, promote sports in schools, secondary schools, promote sports in the workplace, health in the workplace and also promote disabled people and older people. That is why it is so much more logical that this day is not a day off, but it is on a working day when we learn how sports activity, how to integrate a healthy lifestyle into our daily obligations and, of course, it is also in line with the goals proposed by the Olympic Committees of Slovenia. I hope that, on behalf of sport, we will today be able to unify ourselves to support this holiday in this house. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much. My colleague, Aljaž Kovacic, has the floor. Explanation on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. We will, of course, support the marriage in the List of Marjan Šarc, and finally we are cosigners. Now, we have more holidays in Slovenia. The holiday is one day that we remember some historical or other important events and it doesn’t matter whether we’re at home or at work or wherever we are, but it’s important to remember some historical facts that we try to live or work all year long. and also the purpose of this law is not only to engage in sport that day when it will be a date, but that young people, in fact all the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia, would encourage that movement is very important - but a movement that is healthy but not excessive and that forces some kind of professionalism. At the same time, this day is also kind of a thank-you to all the top athletes who have been there since 1912, when the first Slovenian won the Olympic medal, true thanks to all those Slovenians who won and who are winners not only of the Olympic medals, but also of all the world's, European and other competitions. Now this law covers, as the predecessor said, the Ministry of Labour because it is a holiday, even though it is a sport. And even the debate itself may be somewhat unfortunate that there was no ministry covering sport, so that it would also hear that this law will not improve individual clubs, individual athletes, to make their situation better, so that at a time when the gross domestic product will fall when the economic crisis is even more important, the government will be able to listen to all these collectives and take care of sport. Because we know when there's a crisis in businesses, they'll have even less money to help these clubs. And I hope that this holiday will also be an incentive for the government not to forget sports, perhaps as it is in all my laws. Of course, in the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will unanimously support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Comrade Primož Siter, on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Now, given that the amendment to the law we have proposed in the Left Group has not received sufficient support and that the day of sport will not be a day off, we will be Members and Members of the Left Group, otherwise we will not oppose the law, but we will abstain from voting. For one simple reason – the task of politics is to help sports when we get to sport. That is a fact, and we all agree on it. But aiding sports, if it's purely and only plausible, is not enough. Aid to sport is considered when the state helps athletes, and we have, only among professional, among top athletes in Slovenia, a group of people who – socialally – are already struggling with life, and when they finish their sports career they do not know what will happen to them and what opportunities they will have. Therefore, in Levica we support the improvement of the social situation of these athletes. We support the door to talk on the Slovenian political floor, in this direction [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u123	A little peace, fellows, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u124	At the same time, because I already have the opportunity and because everything shows that the law will announce, I call on all sports events organizers, sports infrastructure managers to, in the example of their cultural colleagues, on the day of sport, open their doors, offer their sports services, their infrastructure, workers and workers and all those who may not be able to afford it for free and in such a way, at least sport makes it available to all. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. A colleague of Matthew the Widow, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. In Slovenia, sport connects us and unites us, so this holiday is on the spot, because Slovenians today really need integration and cooperation at all levels, and I believe that this cooperation and integration will be transferred to more and therefore, I support the proposed law and I will gladly press the key for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Comrade Matjaž German, in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u128	Thank you very much, President. Let me also express it on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. Of course, sport should not be present in the world of politics only when it achieves exceptional global results, but also when we really need to push the button, in financial terms and in support. So today's vote for, by policy, the voice of awareness of importance, as we are aware of culture, on the one hand, we are also aware of the importance of sport. Allow me, on this occasion, to especially thank all the parliamentary groups and the first-signed, Gregor Židan, who is among us, here as the only professional athlete and is also the first to be signed under this law. So, good luck with Slovenian sport, good luck with politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 74 votes against 1. [[The vote was 74.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda – the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: “Proposal of a law supplementing the Act on measures taken by the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen the stability of banks is appropriate for further consideration.” Explanation of the vote, on behalf of the Member of Parliament, Comrade Luka Mesec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u130	Yes, thank you for your word. A nice hello. In Levika, we are re-investing a law on the transfer of the property of the bad bank to the housing fund. So, from one government pocket to another state pocket. This would, of course, provide a housing fund for the construction of about a thousand 300 dwellings, but this is only the first step towards solving the housing problem. Before we vote, I would like to say a few more things. This is not just a matter of housing, it is a matter of opportunity and social mobility especially for young people. If I say a few numbers. This year, a total of 17,000 students and students graduated from Slovenia last year, according to the SURS data, 13 000 500 people were said to have moved out of Slovenia for almost one generation. Second data. In Slovenia, we are at the top of how many young people live with their parents. For in my generation of young adults, between 25 and 34 years of age, almost half of my parents live. What does that tell us about the kind of company we're becoming? I said earlier at the end of the debate that people were mass leaving 150, 100 years ago and Europe in the US because there was no opportunity for it. In Europe, when you were born into a wealthy family, you inherited wealth if you were born into a poor family you did not have much chance of repairing your property status at any time. And America was considered a land of opportunity. Today this great exodus is happening again, so there is no opportunity and the housing issue is crucial here. If you put yourself in the skin of someone who goes to study in Ljubljana, after the end the study gets a job I would like to buy an apartment for my partners, a partner may run into an astronomical price, if, say, he wants to live in the city and this is not only for Ljubljana, but also for other parts of Slovenia, which can range from 200, 250, 300, 350 thousand euros for some apartments, which are nothing special about apartments that are less than 100 square meters. Unless the state sees to it that its policy is to reach into this sphere, prices will become normal, that this real estate balloon, which has again been inflated in the last 10 years and makes it impossible for young people to access their homes if it does not end, all that I have described before will continue. From young people living at home to looking for opportunities abroad. The only one we have a chance with this vicious circle to cut is us in this room, so of course we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We're voting. Excuse me. On my own behalf, Comrade Duck.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. Before that, the president of the state spoke of almost 30 years. For the last 30 years, this independent country has not had a whole type of policy and not even housing policy among them. As a spatial and analytical sociologist, I hope to say that it is them, because the vast majority of people in the political class did not have a problem. They and their children have reserved their homes, but in this way the state cannot function and politics cannot go. This is also a criticism of the parliamentary group in which I am, the Social Democrats and the challenge of 15 governments is that housing policy is going as well as the neighbourhood of Vienna because the long history of Social Democrats has made one of the best housing policies in the world. This will be a real housing policy for young people, not what someone from the SDS has previously said, but let us let these young people be credited and paid back for a house of their kind for up to 68 years. Let's listen to what you're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u133	We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 51. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 51.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We're voting. [[No, no, ……]] Explanation. Comrade Joseph Horvath, on behalf of the Parliamentary Explanation of the Voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President of the National Assembly, colleague and colleague! The parliamentary group will vote against this law. We have no coalition commitment because this is the law of the previous Government and we are pleased that the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture announced a comprehensive reform of the Animal Protection Act in autumn. Here we have probably been underestimated, and we have done according to our assessment of the shame of Slovenia. If we look at Section 2 of the Act, the amended bill in Article 5, states in point 33 that they are animals, animals are living vertebrates other than humans. Animals are living vertebrates other than humans. That's the definition of an animal. That they are able to feel this, we all know, feel all the animals, one less each other more, even simple single-cellers detect light, some different concentrations of CO2, etc. We learned from biology that we have four or five kingdoms. In the 17th century, many five kingdoms were advocated, including bacteria and blue - green veneers, single - celled plants, fungi, and animals. In the 20th century, biologist Leedale proposed a system of four kingdoms. In fact, it's the same thing, just another interpretation and it says, we have four kingdoms, bacteria and blue-green ventricles, plants, fungi and animals. And with such a definition as it is written here, we may have been of little attention to all of us together, but we are optimistic, we expect the autumn and complete renewal of this law. In previous years, we have carried out quite a few diplomatic activities, including parliamentary diplomatic activities, and we have succeeded at the General Assembly of the United Nations and have reached world bee day. Colleagues and colleagues! So what are bees if animals are living vertebrates other than humans? Animals, so bees can by this definition bees can be human, which they are probably not, or plants, which we don't think are, and this is just one of the reasons why we can't support such madness. I hope you understand that. However, I also hope that the Ministry of Agriculture will be the one to step on the burden of vegan ideology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. A colleague of Meira Hot on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u136	Thank you very much. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will be absolutely in favour of the bill, as we have already said in our views. Let me explain that in the Group of Members we have decided and tabled the amendments that have been added to and aligned with the law and have clearly stated that animals are sensitive living beings and that the second amendment has been supplemented on the basis of the Committee's proposal, because we have written otherwise. It must be said that animals under the Animal Protection Act have been defined as living vertebrates all the time, but that they have been perceived as things in the legal order and therefore things have to be completed, clarified and harmonised. All the time, however, we call and demand that a system law be passed with all the necessary changes, such as that negligence is defined as an offence, as that it is definitively determined that euthanasia of healthy animals is prohibited, the former, former Minister of Mags. Dejan Židan has already tried this, put the law in question into the parliamentary procedure, and I am very sorry, but in the previous composition you have not accepted this and today's views remind us of how we can get very far and let's stop at the last moment. Of course, we will keep our word to the end, but we will ask the Minister to now prepare a system law in autumn with all the necessary changes, which will provide that the animals of sentient living beings have also put into practice that this will not remain a mere letter on paper. Once again, the Social Democrats will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Comrade Winning Jelinčič on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We will not support the law in our parliamentary group. There are a few things that speak against supporting him. For example, it has been determined that animals are sensitive animals, that they are sensitive beings. How are we going to apologize for shooting jackals now, if it's genocide? But, say, Mr. Jew will know all about it, there are so many pigs in Panvati, and when the pigs are slaughtering, who will answer now that the pigs are slaughtering, not. According to your law, it's also genocide. And one more thing, I agree with Mr Horvato, who said that he turned to that dictatorship, animals are living vertebrates other than humans. True, some people could be put among the invertebrates, some among the mildews, and some among the amoebas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Dr. Franc Trček in la On behalf of his fellow Member, Luka Mesec. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Now, it sounded like there was an opinion, animals are sensitive beings, because we all know that, no, animals feel that. We all know as long as it's a puppy or a kitten that we have at home, but we don't all know when it comes to the cases that, after all, he's warned about winning now, when it comes to how pigs live, when it comes to how chickens live in battery farming, when it comes to how sheep are transported by sea, where they suffer at 50 degrees, and those who die in their own garbage are thrown into the sea. In short, we treat animals as a civilization as a matter of fact and it is that this relationship of ours needs to be fundamentally changed. I am not saying that this marriage will change this relationship, but this law is a good start for us to start changing this relationship and to talk about it, to think about it. I'm sure that in 20, 50, maybe 100 years from now, our craftsmen will look at the way our generation treated animals, just like our generation looks at the disgust of how white people once treated people of other races that they thought were animals. Of course, we will support the law in Levica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? [[No, no, ……]] Then Dr. Franz Duck in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u142	Yes, thank you very much for your word. I'm listening to this one more time. Look, I'm basically a pub with a village. With us animals were not objects, no, animals had names, including chickens, not just cows and pigs, and before, of course, those ritual winter, winter knees, there was some almost fourteen-day process of saying goodbye to these animals, my great-grandmother almost apologized to them and explained to them why we would do what we did. Now in this light I am also looking at all this problem because you have discussed something, see also since Tuesday in this National Assembly there is a Kingdom of Members versus Franz Duck and Bees, and some Christian Democrats have not protested against it, and I am such an animal sensitive, I am not offensive, I am not vengeful, but I have a memory of the elephant, I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u143	Mag. Dean Jedhan in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u144	Thank you, President, honourable Members. I will also vote for this law, and finally, people with an animal attitude show that we are really people, every step forward that we make is useful, will never be last, will never be final, no. Of course, I am happy to expect and expect the autumn version of the law, after all, some you have forgotten, some you have not. In December 2017, Cerar's government drafted and sent a similar law to this Parliament, which was even upgraded. The law regulated something where there is a really big open wound at the moment in Slovenia. In Slovenia it is almost almost a business to euthanize healthy animals in the shelter. The deal that's been paid. This is a serious mistake in the system, this should be prohibited, in the law of the year, but I am pleased that some of the shelters reject this despite everything, in the 2017 law this has already been resolved and my request for all of you, honourable Members and Members is, let us take the fall to make an important step forward. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u145	Thank you very much. She's a colleague of Violet Tomic's in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u146	Yes, our ethical attitude toward animals shows what kind of people we really are. Now either some are carnivores, others are not carnivores, but we must be aware that when we cause pain to others, we are no better. As Franjo mentioned earlier, the farmer at times had a relationship with his domestic animal and was a certain ritual, today the breeds are mass, battery, and personal. And believe me, even passionate carnivores get nothing positive when you enjoy fear, frustration and this adrenaline from animals. The animal must feel good. Not to mention the domestic animals he spoke of a little while ago, the Jews. I just saved my best friend from euthanasia, who we spent 12 years with. And, you know, euthanizing a healthy animal who is full of life and is only interested in a master who can wait for him until he meets him is unacceptable. A man takes certain rights that the Creator has not given him. He said we must respect every living thing. And that is why I will uphold this law and always and everywhere I will be on the side of treating every living thing we meet in our path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u147	We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 17. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 11th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Radio Television Act Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration." On behalf of the Parliamentary, colleague Lydia Divac Mirnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Nice greetings, respectable colleagues, colleagues. We are even more convinced in the LMŠ after yesterday's debate that politics must raise and withdraw its hand above public RTV Slovenia. Now, what we propose is mature, healthy and, say, hygienic. We're not taking anything from the public service, but we're giving it a huge amount. Let's let him do his job professionally. Let's let him do his job professionally. I repeat, our proposal may or may not be the best. We don't even claim that. We can listen, and we can work together. I predict a dialogue, a follow-up to your proposals, a respected coalition. Get 'em on the line. Support the law and allow it to be discussed further. You will thus show that you also think and do what you say, that you actually advocate the autonomy of the institution, the independence of editorial policy, also the independence of the press and not least the free media. Free media. This is what you often type on a variety of social networks. Come on, press this button today, the right one, for. We will, of course, press it in the List of Marjan Sarcas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much. My colleague, Violeta Tomić, on behalf of the Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Even in the Levica Group, we will support this bill despite the concerns we have, but these concerns can be clarified in the next stages. We support every step in the direction of a smaller policy impact on the public institution RTV, which is the largest cultural and artistic institution in Slovenia and is extremely important. So that RTV began to develop shyly as early as 1924 with radio, then it had its first broadcast in 1957, which means that it survived 2 wars and 3 systems. He adapted to his best efforts and was known for his extremely high-quality, professional team work, which I can witness, because I have participated with them for 30 years, and therefore it seems unacceptable to me that today, someone who only watches television can judge that there are too many of them, and that they are overpaid and even calls for the non-payment of the subscription, because, forgive me, with 12,75 euros, as much as the contribution, it is unacceptable to think that any household will be saved, but we can destroy the public service that has been built over the decades. Now, 2005, the law filed by the SDS party changed relations and put politics in. Since then, no one has been satisfied, and the employees are no longer so cohesive. To quote what the MP said about the MMC at the time and said that "it is important to respect the principle of constitutional law, that the authority is obliged to visit the media if it considers it necessary to do so in order to ensure citizens' overall information." And the power, it really did reach into this medium and it began to destroy the expertise. Therefore, power, every time power, must withdraw its claws from public RTV and restore it to the full authority of the profession. We'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Don't you? [[Yeah.]] Yeah. On behalf of the House of Representatives, Comrade Victory Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Of course, we're not going to support this marriage, are we? It makes me laugh when it's said that the government has intervened in this marriage. This marriage was before, the power, yesterday's power, I'd like to reach into this marriage, but it was late and then it collapsed, so it can no longer interfere. Of course, now, most of the opposition, nevertheless, is trying to intervene and change from the point of view of the former authorities what is, in fact, significantly better written in the present law than the proponents suggest. Proposers, I don't know why they're talking about the autonomy of the institution. The agency's autonomy, it's gone. The institution is in the hands of the left political options and this is seen every day. If we're just going to do a cross-section, how many times is there a political personality on TV, and what is a political personality, then we can see that most of the time, the left progeny is reigning there. After all, even informatively, the current RTV Slovenia is as low as it has ever been before and this matter is still falling. If we take what has happened now, in Europe, in connection with our Government, we do not have this information. This information can be obtained either from Austrian media or from Croatian media, but it is not available in Slovenian media. Very interesting. I mean, and such changes, thank you very much, we don't want to support. In addition, you want to insert as many "FDVs" as possible to probably be more diverse, I would say, different sequels with homosexual content. Looks like you only like what's up there. I think we should do one serious TV sometime. We don't have serious TV. It is only serious that he spends a lot of money, that he has a lot of employees, and that the purchase and take-out of this television is extremely bad, extremely low. I remember the old TV, and I have to say that in the time of Yugoslavia, [[sign for the end of the debate]] TV was more independent and more open and, above all, had a much better program than it has today. Today, however, television is in greater debt every day, more and more money is being spent on wages and, of course, and then wishes for the subscription to be raised. Please, we do not need such television in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. On behalf of the House of Representatives? Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] No, no, no. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 22. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the assembly has adopted a decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated to the Committee on Culture as its parent working body. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Draft Law on the Budget Fund for Investment in Transport Infrastructure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on the budget fund for investment in transport infrastructure is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote by colleague Joseph Horvat on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The New Slovenia Group will vote against it. One is the substantive reasons and the other is the reasons which are very important and may at some point have to check whether the text of the law, the bill proposed by either a parliamentary group or a group of Members or a Member has ever been written by the Ministry. 99.2% of this text was written in the previous government at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Now she's adopted this, or whatever else she's saying, you're going to find out for yourself, the SAB Group. Only 0.8% of the text or better said characters were added themselves. This is not acceptable for our understanding. What if this law had been ordered by the previous ministry or by the former minister somewhere outside a legal service, a legal office and paid a few thousand euros for it. So, two reasons why we're against it. He's the one I described. This text has not been fully produced in the parliamentary group that proposes this law. That's unacceptable. It's an unacceptable way. And the other is substantive. And that's why we're going against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary, colleague Andrei Reich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u156	Look, today, my colleague Horvat resumed the slander he committed yesterday. The law is the copyright work of our President, who was then also Minister of Infrastructure and is complemented by our Group of Members. They proved it themselves when they showed that we actually wrote it all. Legal matter is not copyrighted under any law. Even you or your minister could have filed this law, and after two months, despite having only five points, of which two points of the transitional and final provisions, he did not submit it. The law solves the problem of financing our infrastructure. The Minister, or representative of the Ministry, the Secretary of State, made public yesterday for the first time, admitted that the Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure, had taken away 130 million euros. And by means of this law, we are saving stable funding for our infrastructure projects. We have 6,000 kilometres of state roads, a thousand 200 kilometres of railway infrastructure, and we provide with this law dedicated means to maintain this long-term infrastructure. As far as the content of the matter is concerned, two main sources are concerned, a duty for registration of motor vehicles, and we have added two percentage points of VAT in the proposal. And with these amounts that we have proposed, of course, we could ensure the smooth and continuous financing of our infrastructure. These are not new duties. It's only about the funds being collected deliberately. We have justified this, proposed and also proposed to fellow Members if they do not like the amendment of the law. Therefore, if they do not like that VAT is included, which is in fact a very large income of this dedicated fund, a fund with the other four sources of funding can also be created. And we understand the controversy that they triggered in the light that they simply don't support the law because they didn't write it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u157	Thank you very much. I conclude that you will vote in favour. My friend Starović, in his own name? Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u158	I will definitely vote in favour. Even in yesterday's debate on all sides, it was absolutely clear that one such law needed to be a stable financing of investments in one of our greatest advantages is the geostrategic position and also in the green direction as we talked about how we should create more into railways and move traffic from roads to railways. However, I regret that if this law does not go through the third time now in previous references it has been tried to give because it is known that a stable source is needed, I will regret that if it does not go through because I say to be amended to supplement it, but it is not worthy to break a matter in such an unworthy manner as we have heard again today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 47. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law is final. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Road Traffic Rules Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on amendments and on the article and on the title of the chapter. Since the amendments of the Left Group to Article 2a and to the title of Chapter are a transitional and final provision, we will discuss them together. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 2a and the title of the Chapter A transitional and final provision and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Comrade Željko Ciegler, debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Your Honor! In Levi, we propose an amendment to Article 2a to delete this Article. We are based on the basic purpose that the applicants had in proposing amendments to the Road Traffic Rules Act, and this is that the relationship between companies and non-profit operators transporting children is that eight children plus a driver facilitates their work for training, competitions nearby, of course, in such a way that the necessity or obligation to use the tachograph is interrupted. After a discussion on the working body, this is said in the Infrastructure Committee and also in the National Assembly, they simply came to this point, although they cautioned that their purpose was not to allow business to have as few technical obstacles as possible in the service of their money and thus reduces transport security especially for children, they have come to propose an article 2.a which simply excludes the mandatory use of tachographs for all carriers carrying children, profits and non-profits. Therefore, in tachograph it is very important that this instrument for road safety is, in fact, the control and limitation of driving hours for the transport of children is very important in the safety of ensuring this vulnerable group when driving on the road, that we have control of how long the driver is in the car, how much he is under pressure and whether he can carry out this matter. We believe in Levica that this 2.a article, which the applicant eventually received, is totally against what they have proposed for dangerous deregulation of traffic safety regulations. Firstly, it is contrary to the purpose of the law as proposed as to why they want to amend it. Secondly, it is a matter of changing the law without the behaviour of those who will now be practically the most affected by the proposed amendment, namely children or students and students in the educational system. People who participate in this system from teachers, parents and so on We did not have any involvement in this debate, even fewer traffic safety experts. And even the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which is intended to present the interest of those who are expected to benefit most by adopting this new 2. But the articles are in a letter from the National Assembly of 5. 6. warn these two even that it is unacceptable that the proposed amendment ignores such an important factor as a tachograph in road transport for the carriage of children, regardless of whether they are carried out by a company or by a commercial carrier. Because it is necessary to be aware that it is one industry that is highly pre-characterized. But now there are no regular employees here. This is what they do, they carry out these transports with vans for various purposes either by students or by s.p.-Jews or by any other absence of tachographs will allow profitable organisations to commit an even greater mass infringement of the driver's labour law, as far as rest is concerned, and if the driver is not rested, he is so dangerous for those who drive them or for others who participate in road traffic. And look, there are known cases, especially GoOptija, and they were writing to us, and the last time we said that in the debate at the National Assembly, that was yesterday when these drivers drove without rest for more than 24 hours. And after he brings it in, because it pays the owner of this vehicle to continue serving, he'll drive the kids. We therefore propose that this amendment be deleted and that possible exceptions be organised in a public debate in which both road safety experts, teachers and the parents of children who will be driving are involved. And I would say this in the end: a few parents, teachers, and administrators have turned to us if we are aware of what we are saying. We're talking about a van of transports that are more than four hundred primary schools. In Slovenia we have a lot of these schools used and if we stop this security moment, the tachograph obligation, and professional organizations drive them, performers drive them these children, what will happen here. They ask us if we know what the consequences of these proposals will be, the adoption of this law, which we are considering, and whether we are also aware of the responsibility that we are taking with regard to when road accidents will begin due to these changes. In Levika we will vote in favour of the amendment we have proposed, and this is to delete Article 2A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I see there's a few more of you reported. First, I'll give my word to my colleague, Micha Kordish, who signed up first, and then I'll attach the list. My friend Miha.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, chairman. The tachograph is a device that is inserted into a car or in a van, a truck, in any such means of transport, and there it records the transported miles, records the rest, records the stops. Therefore, the tachograph is the Ombudsman of Road Traffic Workers' Rights, and it is also the guardian of road users' safety. Cases of out-of-way transport, such as GoOpti, where they drive with small vans in order to install a tachograph under the law, where drivers drive continuously from one location to another, drive 24 hours together, sleep in the last seats of their cars, of course, endangering themselves, endangering other road users and also endangering the passengers they drive. Unless I specifically expose their own social threats. These are people who usually work on a variety of sts, but they're paid by a mile, not by the idea of a fair line for a decent job. This arrangement is extremely problematic and why I summarize it at this point is because the coalition is now transferring it to the whole field of child transport. The idea of the law at first was to make transportation of children a little more lively for societies, and some other non-governmental organizations where parents of groups of children go to training, and they get together and go to some kind of game, some kind of trip. In such cases, it is perfectly understandable that vehicles other than those intended for the specific carriage of children do not have a tachograph and I do not mind that the law changes and that the obligations of tachographs for transport carried out by non-profits are regulated by non-governmental organisations for non-profit purposes. Something completely different happened when we received an amendment on the table, which was the necessity of the tachograph drawing not only for NGOs and non-profit activities that drive children around in their free time, but also for commercial carriers – for people who drive around children for money, in commercial terms. Without the tachograph, without this road safety guard and the driver's rights, this amendment to the legal provision will soon be translated into generally lower standards of child protection. Or, as one of the SMC's MPs said during the course of the treatment on the parent working body, we introduce this change for societies, if introduced in general for all cases of child transport, this would be child transport abuse. But even before the hearing is concluded, the National Assembly is voting at this very moment precisely on whether or not I will legitimize the misuse of child transport, as one of the MPs has said, or will not do so. We insist in Levica that if the law is amended, it should be corrected in such a way as to allow for an exception only for the non-profit transport of children organised by different societies and so on. However, where commercial transport of children is concerned, where business is concerned, it is necessary to rigorously maintain the highest possible standards of road safety, the protection of workers’ rights of drivers and so on. Otherwise, we can only count down to the next opportunity when one group of children loses their life on the highway because they will sit in a burning, underpaid, unscathed driver behind the wheel. He will make a mistake and death victims will be measured — why? Just to make sure certain shipping companies make money. Unacceptable, unacceptable. And in Levi, we have committed ourselves to the amendment law, which deletes this expansion of the reduction of safety standards in traffic to commercial child transport providers and leaves an exception only for non-profit transport for non-governmental organisations. We're talking about protecting children's lives, about their safety on the road. Let's not let some business lobbying of transports ruin the standard of protection for children on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u163	Colleagues, colleagues, I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. The first one is my colleague, Rudy Bear.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you for your word, President. We understand the basic intention of changing this law, although the truth of the loving profession of traffic safety did not have much to say in this regard. In fact, she did not have or have not been asked, so we have been able to read more of the records of individual experts who have opposed these changes from the ground. On the other hand, we have also understood and we are convinced that societies, organisations carrying out child transport, are doing so in a very responsible way and that they respect all the highest standards of transport safety. It is true, however, that during the second and third readings we took a closer look at this article and that we also discussed this with experts and asked them whether we were reading it correctly. And they've confirmed that we're reading it right if we see it so that in the future, for companies or private people who carry out special line transports, now if I say domestically, they're transporting children to school and from school, they won't be mandatory tachographs for these vehicles in the future. And I have to say that this is where the alarm rang, and that sometimes a person, when he knows more, can change his point of view and, of course, we cannot agree to such a drastic reduction in the standard when it comes to school transport when it comes to regular line transport. In these vans, at least as much as I asked myself, in some who have contracts with municipalities, as well as with schools, very modern, now digital devices, tachographs that actually record not only the presence of the driver in the vehicle, but also many other parameters, so they also really control parameters that mean traffic safety. And now that there are invitations to school transport, of course, they will be able to apply to these calls again, even to such private persons with vehicles without tachographs, because these tachographs will not be required for such transports. And what will then happen is whether this will also give rise to complaints about how some will be in an unequal or equal situation, all of which is then one smurf, according to the local word, in which children can, of course, be drawn up in the short term for which these school transports are organised. As we say, in the event that this 2.a will be lined up, and that we will return to the basic purpose of these changes of the law that we have supported and others, we will support this change. So we support the amendment of the Left, if adopted, then we will also support amendments to the law with one purpose: we care about security as regards daily line-of-school transport.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. It is true that we have wanted to assist societies, unions, institutions in the course of the legislative process by the competent Ministry and the Legal and Legislative Service in the first place, but that we have been warned that we will do inequality and that it is not reasonable to adopt such a law that we already know that it will cause inequality. In the SMC Group, we reject any suggestion that any hidden interests stand with the amendments that we have tabled together with the coalition parties for the plenary session of the National Assembly. Once again, I would like to draw attention to the position of the Government presented by the State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure here at the meeting on Tuesday. According to the Secretary of State or Government, the Government considers that the exclusion of mandatory use of tachograph should be established for all transport of groups up to a maximum of 8 children, not only for transport of a group of up to eight children by natural or legal persons. The amendments adopted on Tuesday fully follow the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act and are therefore fully supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Secretary of State told us another information, namely Regulation No. 561/2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council already provides that for all vehicles or all transports above 9 persons, i.e. 8 plus 1, the use of tachographs has already been determined and has also said, most importantly, in relation to the regulation and all the provisions and the position already presented, the equality of all operators of transport is extremely important. Both those who carry out the transport on a profitable basis and those who do not. Therefore, this needs to be balanced and, therefore, such an opinion has also been adopted by the Government and is in accordance with the Regulation. So this is the government's opinion. And the amendments adopted in the second reading at the plenary session of the assembly on Tuesday were not created by the SMC Group and the other proponents, but by the Ministry of Infrastructure, in agreement with the proponents, and their relevance was also verified by the Legislative and Legal Service before the introduction. To add something else about tachographs, even though it was a hundred times, in fact. The tachograph is a road traffic control device used by licensed road hauliers. It was initially used to control the movement of vehicles and goods, and only later took over the function of monitoring the working time and rest of professional drivers in road transport and in the event of an accident, as well as to verify the driver's driving as the cause of the accident. Given that in Slovenia alone, tachographs must also use non-professional drivers who do not use working-time monitoring functions, its only meaningful function is to record a ride and to check the driver's driving with it, but do this in fact already purely ordinary navigation systems, not to mention mobile applications such as the most widespread application of one of the insurance companies, Slovenians, is called DRAV, which during recording speeds, delays, accelerations, knows when you're out of town, knows this tachograph, and why do we still need tachographs? Schools – we said last time that the biggest problem would therefore arise in schools if we adopted a law without amendments, which now helped us prepare the Ministry. So schools that have their own vans shouldn't have tachographs, because they would fall into our marriage, schools that hire concessionaires, and they would be subject to other rules and they should have tachographs. Finally, because I'm running out of time, let me just say this – a non-European study, we've looked [[sign for the end of the debate]] Children and road traffic. Not the comparative task of the research sector of the National Assembly, not the EU regulation, nor the legislation of other countries, European countries, do they mention or require tachographs in vans and not in seven vehicle seats, why should Slovenia have the most stringent and non-lifelike legislation in this area? Are our drivers different? Are our children different? Are our vehicles different? No, no, no. We all do. [[sign for the end of the debate]] Always and everywhere compared to Europe, why not now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Chairman. Let me start by saying that we don't ban tachographs, we just remove them from the law, which means that anyone who wants them, who thinks they need them, can still use them to control his employee. In five minutes, it is very difficult for me to tell the public and certain Members why I do not support their amendment if I see that the amendment's candidates have mixed apples and don't understand the basics, such as what a group of children means, after this law, which was heard today, because they are talking about the transport of students, what personal transports, their own transports and the transport of economic activities, what the tachograph is, what it serves, what it is intended for. They also do not understand that today, one shareholder for the transport of children does not need to have a tachograph installed in the vehicle and carry out twice a year technical checks on vehicles – whether they do not understand or do not understand it and, above all, do not follow their words, because they did not say on the home working body, when defending them, that they do not support this because it causes inequality before the law and then the old have a terrible conversion and in Slovenia, I must point out that we have, we are really experts for the transposition and implementation of European legislation much more strictly into our legal order than it is provided for in European legislation. Why don't I know that? Individuals may have an interest in the preparation of or pressure on laws or lobbying individual interest associations for various reasons. It is not necessarily that there are always reasons, because of the financial business, it may also be to ensure and justify their existence or their importance. We also know in our country how to complicate legislation so much that in the end it is very difficult for citizens to understand the executive branch of government. The revision of the novel is an accurate proof of the intertwining of one topic in two or three laws and a large number of submarital acts. The error was made already in 2010 when four laws and a large number of sub-laws were made out of one Road Safety Act, which are highly intertwined despite the opposition of professional colleagues at the Ministry and the transport of children today, under existing legislation, we can transport children without tachographs, as it is a condition that vehicles of tachographs should only be transported if we transport group 5 or more - carefully - of preschool or primary school children. Only these two groups of kids need a tachograph for the rest of them. I also do not need a tachograph for the carriage of children in line transport and the transport of my own children. But I need it if my brother, my sister, my aunt, my uncle, my old moms and my neighbor are driving these same kids to a birthday party by accident, because in practice this law has turned out to be lifeless. My colleague and I have decided to change it and make a living, and by no means do we ban the use of tachographs if anyone thinks they need it. As the colleague has already said, we have reviewed European legislation, ordered a study of the comparisons of neighbouring countries to the National Assembly, and in the end, we have also aligned ourselves with the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Legal and Legislative Services to find solutions together and bring the law to this point in order to be able to adopt it. No European legislation prescribes tachographs in vehicles of eight plus one. If we just say no more tachograph, no board and no other technical aid will help if we sit drunk, scattered, unaccounted for, and especially irresponsible behind the wheel. The tachograph in no way directly affects the outcome of traffic situations. We can't stop a traffic accident if we have a tachograph in the vehicle or not. Today, when we talk about road safety, I wonder what the factor is, which has caused the most accidents of alcohol and other substances, and I ask myself the most fatal victims, which is why the legislation for all citizens has not yet been amended to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Comrade Bostian Korazzi.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u170	Your Honor, thank you for your word. Unfortunately, I did not attend this debate alone and the committee, which I regret to admit now at all. But I would like to draw attention to some very important matters. First of all, I would expect that when these matters are taken up or discussed, you will actually invite those who advocate these things and those who are against what you propose. But I'm just gonna say this in a short sentence in the middle of a speech. In fact, Members should be very careful in such matters when it comes to such vulnerable groups as children and adolescents, and I will also say very much to Piccolo, because the matter is such that I don't know if you know, but you were talking about the proposing directives there. Slovenia was one of the last to actually implement the EU Directive 2012 on minimum standards in the area of the rights of support and protection of victims of crime and in fact, which is the saddest part of Slovenia's implementation of this Directive has been eluded for almost 10 years in essence or about 8 years in essence. And when it comes to constant, when it comes to the most vulnerable group in our society, there should also be standards or regulations that are adopted, as well as changes written and made to try to cover all things, or to limit all the factors of possibility in such a case as this proposal, it is just that when you say that tachograph yes, the tachograph does not. In fact, look, tachographs have to be because I'm just going to warn you, a lot of accidents that you, as far as I know, have happened during the transport of these athletes to different venues. And look, the parents of these children who have experienced these tragic accidents have been deeply hurt when they accept this proposal or this whole proposal of yours. And I think we should reconsider the matter thoroughly. I believe you've done it for a good reason, because I know, I agree that we should do something in this direction. It is said that the children of parents, who are just parents, will have real children who are athletes and parents cannot afford to drive them to training and also bring them back from training, so that they should have some opportunity or financial support and also, in such a case, that they should have vans and such things at their disposal. But I think that, in such a case, there should be a possibility of another way, not, in fact, a path that is actually against and against road safety legislation. I think here that you can also accept it, I say again, I believe you wanted to do it for a good purpose, because we all want to have our apprentices or our children, but I do not have them, but I know that there are many here that you want to have the best conditions both for education and for sports and for all the other things. But when it comes essentially to the road safety law or the law that really needs to be respected or protected, and when it comes to the weakest groups, like children, I don't think we should know the pardon or the possibility, at least a small possibility, that there might be an accident or some other abuse. But the fact is that children need to be protected by 300 percent, 200 percent, if they can and if we know how, not given or given the opportunity to be exposed to such or other disasters, or even some sort of thing that may happen in a negative direction. So please, I personally would suggest that the matter should be reconsidered, and once again an opportunity could be put into some public debate, including a public space, so that the matter could be brought to some, yes, public discourse. Look, I was personally contacted by my parents who had unfortunately experienced these terrible accidents. And I also then explained, I said that you wanted to do it with a good purpose, but in such a case, in fact, even when good intentions are good, you need to be very careful, but you need to respect the legislation, and you also need to protect those weakest ones, as once again, and these children are. And please, let me think again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you for your word. Now, my friend, Comrade Koražija has fought a little more hospitablely, he has already said almost everything. Nice to meet you. A whole bunch of things are here. When I listened to this, I remembered in the SMC that we had a European Commissioner who was proposed and thought in 2017, when she spoke for 2018 or was already 2016, because it belonged to her district, she promised to solve this social dimension and the problem Micah was talking about. If there were a secretary of state here, who was in the middle of dealing with the threat of life on the Ljubljana bypass, a great tech expert in the interior, I would certainly agree with me that we could have solved these matters in such a simple way that a professional would have his own identification and if he had exceeded certain limits, professional vehicles would simply not be able to drive anymore. Even for some speedboats and related vessels, it could be arranged that so close to the coast a nice speed would fall and not go over anyone's head, but because there are some interests, this is not yet the case. Now, as a great fan of public passenger transport, who is now forced to be a driver after 13 years, I would say the answer is also, of course, in the development and strengthening of the public passenger transport network also for the transport of children, which are so easy, I will say a populist theme. Then there's another dimension, but you know if I step back a little bit. I believe in the good intentions of this positive discrimination of proponents or the life that Micah said, but then someone wants to abuse it in some regulated area. And now we're going to be in crisis, and every excuse will always be good for someone to screw up 50 or 100 or I don't know how many euros, right? But you know, it's also a teaching of this law, which can then be applied, that implies some other law. But it seems to me that we also need to understand these e-mails that we have received and letters and so on. We'll be here in Parliament or we won't, folk will forget us, something will happen, but then someone will, I don't know, put a principal or principal on a pranger and you'll be the one here maybe yelling "for the kids" and "fear, shame, shame" again, won't you? We also need to be responsive to the legislative body. Now, the biggest pumpkin I have ever heard in this debate, which I could also understand so much that ladies from the legislature are almost at fault for it. I love them very much, but, with all due respect, those who forgive me are not tachograph experts, neither am I. And now in this light, I agree with that, but what the SMC has learned, which I've been listening to for the sixth year looking for systemic solutions, is this SDS vehemence. And I remember, don't let my friend Zorčič blame me for that lex Zorčič you've been pushing on SMC's best friends there. One of the funniest things when Comrade Breznik explained to us how fast he was running, and after that law he was supposed to wear almost a helmet on his head. We should learn something from that. Yes, young fellow, you can take a look at the magnetogram. You weren't an MP back then. And somehow also take into account such warnings that we actually receive, because we are ultimately representatives of all the people. But you know, and I don't know if this is the right way to get some new normalization. But I also agree with the proposer. Yeah, if you're drinking, you don't drive. And even in a number of areas, we literally - I will say what I have at the end of my language - cut up the sectoral legislation because it was appropriate for someone. Energy is one of the few areas where we still have that spy-law, and there's nothing wrong with it. But, dear God, since we've had so many lawyers and constitutional lawyers in the big SMC there, and I was really hoping, I don't think it's cynical that we're going this way, but nothing actually happened. Yeah, I'm for positive discrimination, but not in the way that someone else is getting something into this positive discrimination. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u173	Dear colleagues. Next on the list is colleague Reich. Two more people came to me with reports, my friend Mesec and Kovacic. Now, I wonder if there's anything else of interest that then-- yeah, it is. to make the matter as predictable as possible, because for every time we pass through the list, a stampede occurs through the door and the debaters cannot discuss it. So, your respectable colleagues coming in will have a few more discussions. The first colleague of the Reich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. Remember, mandatory use of tachographs in these vehicles is due to a tragic accident on the mountain highway when the driver fell asleep due to fatigue. And I regret the debate we witnessed when we heard that the tachograph doesn't detect alcoholism, various other obsessiveness, stiffness, whatever you want to say. We must be aware that, even since the adoption of this law, the labour market has become significantly more flexible. We have new modes of transport, new forms of transport, and that not only at clubs where coaches sometimes transport children to sports during the week, but also school transports are relatively, in this sense, undefined. And if the driver of the school van does not have a tachograph installed, he could drive passengers from the airport in Slovenia first night. And such options, options exist. And we're talking about a contribution of about 2 000 euros for a tachograph, given that the life expectancy of one van can be 5 to 10 years, it's about 20, 50 euros a month, and it's not the cost of burying society or the community, but it can save a lot of lives, not just children, but other passengers. We must be aware that tired drivers are dangerous drivers, some more objective measurement of fatigue than a tachograph so far we do not know, even by accessibility, and I do not really understand, I do not understand the desire to lower the standard of safety. I will, of course, support the amendment of the colleagues of the Left because I think it makes sense because it maintains traffic safety standards, but we can also discuss whether it makes sense to fit in vehicles carrying passengers, including alcohol testers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I'm going to run the application on the list. Please report to everyone who intends to discuss. Thank you very much. Applications are under way. The first one has the word of a colleague of Janja Sluga.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u176	Yes, thank you. First of all, for those of you who say that this initiative should have an even broader debate and so on. Let me remind you that this initiative has been a decade. 2010 was the first to appear and 2010 was the first time the debate started. And usually when it comes to things like this, I go out to the field and look at the way things are. And in that case, I went. Why? Because, six years ago, the Fire Association of Slovenia presented this problem to some sports companies from around me. And I've been doing this ever since. And the fact is, the fact is that these tachographs on the ground are actually only used for these school transports in commercial transport, and they don't have them elsewhere. They don't have them. I don't know a single sports company that would have that. In the congregation, my congregation, out of the 11 vehicles owned by fire-fighting companies, which are designed to do so, the tachograph has only one tachograph. There you go. And if that helps our children's safety, I don't know, but it helps. My children have only been involved in sports since they were little and engaged in various sports until the moment each of them decided for their own. And they didn't have it in any society. They didn't. And they don't have today. And today, they're driving kids to games in vans without tachographs. So this helps to their safety' Another absurd thing, what we've already talked about. First of all, it's obvious to us that we went into some sort of solution ourselves. Read the government's opinion. Read the opinion of the competent ministry that supports these solutions. I would also like to draw attention to what Mr Velov has pointed out. Mr Velov has been at the Transport Safety Agency for many years, honey knows what he's talking about. She has six children of her own, so she knows for sure what she's talking about. And if he warns that it's total nonsense that he can't take his six, and he can't take another neighbor with him without having to take those kids in his personal vehicle, whether it's with seven seats or a van with nine, he's doing technical checks to get these kids somewhere for half a year. If we're looking at a new family car, a large family car that occasionally picks up a neighbor's freckle and takes him to practice, it's in the first eight years of this car instead of three technical inspections of sixteen technical checks. Does this help to keep you safe? I mean, we can talk about how everything on paper looks good, the black on white looks really good, the truth, but the reality is a little different. And that's all I'm looking at. Why it insists on something that we are special in Europe for the first time, the only country in Europe has this. What are we, I'll say, uneducated in traffic, compared to others? And then when you look at it, I repeat, out of the eleven vans in my congregation, 10 have no tachograph. Even now that the law is in force. And not when I asked them what they're doing, because they're not stopping us. And also athletes, because they don't stop them. Those who want to stick to it, however, must do what, for expensive money, hire a commercial carrier. And in fact, my colleague Željko, because you know how to conclude school transport contracts, what it says in there, what are all the requirements and what is in there, and what the vans must be like, and what conditions the van must meet, so that they can even get a school transport concession. And it has nothing to do with the tachograph, and there's a lot of other writing in there. So let's take a little look at the actual situation and not just do what's written in a single law, but if it's not actually done on the ground.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Gigler's stomach is next.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Your Honor! For 28 years I worked in the local community on primary school transports and I tell you, this is regulated by and others for kindergartens, this is regulated by Article 56 of the Basic School Act and before each school year was the first thing that was taken care of in the local community and on which the mayor also strongly demanded that it be clearly arranged, especially for parents, this is the safety of children on the way to school because very many children are driving. More children in the city’s municipalities are driven by congregations that have a very dispersed rural area. And these are mostly all the dangerous school roads where the vans drive. They are usually driven by professional companies, and these are drivers who drive the bus overnight or the day before, and then the kids to school in the morning. These things must be clearly and properly arranged. This is also why in many municipalities for road safety in addition to transportation, because you know, we build sidewalks, we build circulars, we limit speeds all for safety, and here in particular, I say, children, it's about children. And that's all we have here, for nothing else, goes to all of us here, who point out this as simply that the level of security that has now been provided is being maintained or upgraded. And once again, I would like to tell you this when it comes to the opinion of the current government and the competent ministry. The current ministry supported and agreed that tachographs and this part of the security that protect tachographs and were certainly not introduced for free are not necessary. The former Ministry and Member of the Party which led the Ministry of Infrastructure in the previous Government clearly emphasises and highlights the role of this moment of security, which is called the tachograph, and is to be kept there. Only from this do we come out and warn the proponents that we agreed with their proposals, which they gave in the beginning – how society, sports, firefighters, cultural, non-profit operators should be helped, but then completely turned around. A completely different result came from what they initially presented to us as their goal. That's what we're telling you, representatives of the Mobile Center Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u179	Replica, colleague of Janja Servant.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u180	Yes, I would just like to point out because it has been said who in the previous composition of the government had this ministry and what it has warned about – in the previous composition of the Government, the Agency for Transport Safety has made it very clear to this Ministry that the first cause of traffic accidents is alcohol and that the limit level of alcohol in the blood needs to be reduced and punished, and this same ministry, for the first cause of accidents, had no hearing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Next up is colleague Aljaž Kovacič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, President. Yes, I have, myself, talked quite a bit, as my fellow Servant said, in the field, but I have also acted in many societies, and I know how difficult it is to actually provide transportation. I myself, when I was working as a handball coach, many times driving a van, driving children, because, in fact, in these small places, we had to actually bring them to Ormož, so that we could even practice and also that, I don't know, the law now says that some grandmother or grandfather, should not drive 5 grandchildren, is confused with some common sense. And that's why I initially supported this law myself, because it was linked to sports societies, fire companies, in fact, to some relationships that they could survive, and these are people who worked with the heart in these societies. These companies also have their own vans and have actually carried out these transports. Now, something completely different is that you actually put tachographs out of some regular lines and out of commercial transports, because we know if someone works as a handball coach in a handball club, it makes sense for them to bring a child to the game so that this child can play the game. By commercial transport, however, the point is that in fact they earn as much as they can on transport and therefore all companies are working to lower costs, as much as possible, so that they can earn as much as they can. [[Incomprehensible]] And now you're saying that, like one of the proponents said that tachographs should be used, who wants to, is just a little funny, isn't it? This is going to be like saying that I don't know that there's a "breaths" in the car, that someone wants to use them, who wants to use them, right? Even as far as alcohol is concerned, we probably can't say that we can drive drunk now, but who wants to drive sober and now compare with some countries, but it's kind of funny, because we have to come from a nation. If, in some other countries, someone in a drunken state caused, I don't know, a traffic accident with a death victim, it would probably be permanently eliminated and condemned by society, but with us, when the returnees return to the wheel three times or four times and drive again and again drunk and do different traffic and, more than once, they have caused death. And also, lately, we have received a lot of letters from some organisations dealing with traffic safety and actually oppose it, and although the law, which is logical to me, in its original form, I did not support these amendments, because there has been a lot of confusion in this process, even in this process, and I will not assume any responsibility that some traffic accidents will then take place and will, as a result, be victims.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u183	The word is Gregor Perich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u184	Yes, thank you. Thank you very much. I used to hear there was a lot of accidents. Now, what does a lot of traffic accidents mean in this area? I don't know. Does that mean 50, 100, 1000? Well, statistics say there's been a car accident. It is true that every traffic accident that happens is too much, but it is difficult to say that one traffic accident is a lot of traffic accidents, because it makes me think that we are deceiving and creating some impression that does not reflect the reality of one real picture. However, the fact is that either in that vehicle that was involved in that accident at the time had a tachograph or did not have a tachograph, the result would be exactly the same because that driver was driving that vehicle for up to an hour and I think that the result was mainly fatigue. By using the tachograph, the story is closed, nothing helps us anymore, helping us to understand more about what was going on at the time. It is true that it has some kind of dissuasive role, but it cannot affect many other factors, and we know that traffic is such an area where many things happen, and the tachograph serves only to reconstruct only one small part of what happened before and just before the traffic accident. Now, after what I'm listening to here today, given that we are so very irresponsible drivers, we should put the tachograph in completely all of our personal vehicles, and even that would not be enough, because then we should have a sensor of alcoholism, which would sometimes be much more meaningful and justified, but this opens up a number of other questions that we have already touched in this national assembly, about whether we should just carry out individual controls or controls, including how very sober we are coming and press the buttons here in the end. For ten years, societies have been warning us that they have a problem with this tachograph. And that we understand a little bit better in practice what it looks like, so some societies don't have that money to get a car, some get a hard time getting a car. We've heard there's very few vans that have a tachograph. And even if one company wanted to hire a tachograph van, it would not be possible, because it is not easy on the market, because it is not enough to install a tachograph, but the person who will operate this vehicle must also have a national professional qualification and must also have his personal driver card, which must be emptied for 28 days. And let's imagine, if he's using it once or twice a month, it's not as easy as we're painting here today. And I believe that if we listen to our societies, which warn us that this will make their work easier, there will certainly be something that will lead us to an area where we actually reflect what is now in practice. After all, there is also the police, here I have a letter from the police to the Olympic Committee of Slovenia not long ago, seven, eight months ago, or a little more or a good year, where they themselves in the police have suggested that they will scrutinize this area more strictly, which means that for a while has been overlooked, because everyone understood that this solution was set up in a way that was not life and put certain entities in our society in a very ungrateful role, and they have their work, which, if we know the non-governmental sector, has already been so relatively complicated and they have many obstacles, which are mainly and first of all, made life even more complicated and put all those who are trying to do something good, into an unappreciable situation. So again. The tachograph, when we need a tachograph, when we go to the tachograph, something happened. So that I think we can be reasonable and if things work all over Europe and all over the world, I see no reason why we can't do it in Slovenia. Are we any worse than the others? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u185	Replica, Comrade Kovacich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u186	Yes, thank you, President, for your word. Yes, because colleague Perič has just said what we all claim, and we agree in all things – to help sports companies, firefighters and associations with this law in its original form. But the coalition's amendments have changed it a little bit, and that's why I'm also supporting the Left Amendment, which actually erases it. For we cannot now compare sports society, firefighting associations and other societies with some problems with some regular lines and commercial transports that are designed to actually serve. In fact, I think all the parties agree with what you're saying, but you just forgot to say what I actually think most of the opposition is opposed to.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u187	You have the floor to propose.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much. I have to respond because you gave the word before this Gregor Periè on the replica of colleague Aljaž, who in fact misunderstood when I said that the use of tachographs in vehicles is not prohibited by deleting them. I do not know if Aljaž knows that some tachograph drivers in the event of a traffic accident have saved them from punishment because they have proved by tachograph that they are not guilty and that they have not been punished, fines, were not guilty of a traffic accident and in such a case the tachograph is very good, but that way the driver can or the school, the institutions can or also sports companies, the fire companies themselves decide and use them further if this cost or if they assess that this is necessary. However, as regards the use of tachographs as a means of having them everywhere and not all of them should have them, I must say that in the discussion of the mother labour body it was shown that if we did not change the law would be unequal for all stakeholders in traffic and left to the mother labour body, and this was the reason that there was a change in the second reading, where we followed the comments of the Left, we followed the comments of the Legal Service and followed the comments of the Ministry of Infrastructure and together found a solution and the solution did not come from the fourth party, but only among the stakeholders we were gathered here. The law is now prepared in this direction that it is the same for all stakeholders and is also defined by European legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u189	Thank you very much. My friend Runch, the replica, then Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u190	You're not smart enough. I just checked the tachographs cost 200 to 500 euros I would like to have a holiday here to tell me where we can produce tachographs in Slovenia and produce them for 100 euros and let schools buy them. A colleague, when she speaks, could sometimes listen to me about the urgent reform of local self-government, when it comes out a little bit like that, that schools roll in the pennies I have kids in the school in the middle of Maribor and they have a playground as one henhouse and next to the football stadium Maribor could pay, but let's let the stand. [[Incomprehensible]] A little bit of a sense of reality that SMC still doesn't have. Just do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u191	My friend Kordish, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u192	Thank you for your word. Certainly this law, which is now being dealt with in this form, which is now under consideration, does not follow in any way and at no point is left. That's a lie, that's a lie. First of all, we have been witnessing for months as we used lies to defend the commission on the acquisition of protective equipment, and today we listen to lies that defend children’s standards of protection in road traffic, which are unacceptable. We do not argue in Levica that the standard for all stakeholders must be the same, because not all stakeholders in road transport are in the same position. There are some societies, some of them are parents who drive their children to competitions, and they drive them to training, and I don't know what else to do, and they drive them out of their own joy in their own free time. However, something completely different is the business that pressures drivers who are not allowed a suitable amount of rest precisely because certain types outside line transport are not protected by tachographs that would measure speeds that would measure kilometres that would measure rest. This regime, this criminal regime, which allows workers to be abused and allowed drivers to sit behind the wheel tired, tired and so on, because the employer forces them into such excessive driving, is now being painted on the whole field of road transport for children, including for commercial transport, including for business transport. This directly endangers the safety of children involved in this area, endangers the safety of drivers carrying out these transports in a particular business and endangers the safety of other road users. A tired driver, a driver who is not protected by a tachograph, is dangerous to all these three road users, and most of all to the children he carries. And we can't let that happen. There is no good reason to allow it, the only reason I see it and why this law has changed in the course of dealing with the amendment from the coalition benches is that the business is allowed to the back door to the law, to make it easier to drink drivers for the safety of children in road traffic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u193	There's a colleague's word. [[…]] [[a voice from the hall]] : Replica per replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u194	There's no replica to the replica. The word is from a colleague of Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Now, first, let's clear up exactly where the problem is. We are not talking about the law in its entirety, but we are talking only about the 2a member who was introduced into this law in the second reading. In short, under the line, the position of the Left is, we do not object, and we do not have a problem if a coach from Ormož takes his protégés to practice in Maribor. We don't have a problem if a voluntary fire company in their van doesn't have a tachograph. And we don't have a problem with Grandma taking five grandkids in a car, but she doesn't have a tachograph. We don't have a problem with that. But the problem is, with Article 2a, you changed the purpose of this law, where we have a problem. And you changed it in a way that you said, if grandmas, firefighters and trainers don't have to have a tachograph, then no one has to have one. And now you're deregulation for everyone, for liner transportation, for commercial transport, for everyone, and here we have a problem. And it's not just us, but there's a problem with SMC members, I don't know, but ex or no ex. In general, yesterday, European Commissioner, former, Violeta Bulc wrote to you on Twitter: "Do not stop tachographs, because they are the only way to check the number of working hours, mandatory rest and urgent interruptions in the work of professional drivers. By abolishing tachographs you reduce the safety of children and all other participants in transport." When you continued with your argument and said that the safety of the children the drivers ensured with their own awareness of responsibility and that no tachograph and technical examination weighed it down, Violeta Bulc, former Commissioner for Transport, briefly hung up on you and wrote: “The erroneous opinion of the strangers.” So if you want to dig yourself out of this, which you cooked needlessly, the path is quite simple. Accept our amendment to delete paragraph 2.a, and the purpose of the law will be as you initially requested, remain the same, the grandmother, coach and volunteer firefighters will be able to drive without a tachograph, for professional drivers, for liner transport, and for commercial drivers the tachograph must be. And here I really don't understand what the problem is. You're going to allow someone, I don't know, to pump 50, 100 euros, but they can weigh some of it, I don't know, the first van where a tired driver will be in an overworked working relationship where he'll have too many hours, with a full van flying into the river, or he'll crash into another lane on the road. You're just playing with road safety, human life, end up with kids who won't have that safe to go to school anymore. I will, of course, support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u196	It's a replica. I'm a colleague of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. Now, to answer all these ravings is terrible. The representative of the Left who was on the committee listen to the magnetogram: “He has told us many times listen to the legislative and legal service. You have heard the Ministry of Infrastructure, which reminds you of inequality." And as I said at the beginning, and as you say, we also wanted to make a change with legislation, only for societies, institutions, institutions, but the Ministry of Infrastructure and the government has warned us not to make inequalities. And if today this amendment of yours supports the law falls, then all these societies can start anew after these ten years, and once again this agony of their own. And if you're thinking, well, now that we're all okay with society together, or we all think that professional drivers who drive kids to school every day with vans are less safe. After all, you have to use the tachograph next to it, then you have all the travel tasks that are recorded, when they've been rolling, miles, everything that's written down in a travel order. The concession contracts then have their own strict terms and can still be signed by the municipalities or schools, by the municipalities which tender these concessions, and by the municipalities which have signed, if not already required, at least by recommending this tachograph. I really don't know. Well, we didn't make it up, but the competent ministry warned us that we shouldn't make any differences, and that's why these amendments were prepared. [[…]] In fact, they have prepared them, but we are together and there is no way that if your amendment is accepted today, then we can save nothing but families, relatives, nothing else. Guys, everything else falls down, twice a year, everything stays. I mean, everything else falls. We can't solve anything. Then someone can only reopen this legislative procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u198	Thank you very much. There's no replica to the replica. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, no, look, he didn't mention you, he didn't argue with you. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] No, you don't. Let's give the word to my colleague Mate. [[…]] Matthew T. Vatovec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you, President. I think my buddy Duck is right, but good. I don't think we're normal anymore in this national council. Now the SMC insists on completely different things. We heard who else needs tachographs because we have some mobile apps for private insurance or something. This will now become a standard or something to have mobile apps on traffic safety phones produced by private car insurance companies. Okay. Then we heard that for ten years we had these social calls. Yes, once again, we agree, there are exceptions and they are justified. But you've gone from this noble fact that you've saved ten years of social calls to extremes to erase tachographs for everyone. And there's nothing noble about it anymore. And there is no inequality that would have fallen today if our amendment had been adopted or had not fallen to the Constitutional Court. You can defend that. One is for profit from companies carrying out profits. Others are non-profit societies and NGOs and so on. Who in their right mind is going to take this to the Constitutional Court? And who in their right mind would say that, yes, you're right. And here you are two-faced. You yourself have written down that you are inserting guards to prevent what you are now doing with the amendment. And with your finger you're pointing at the ZPS, the government, and so on. By the way, the current minister wishes to attract Uber to Slovenia, so that I would not take this view of the government for granted. Who's against it? As Luke has already said, the former Commissioner for Transport Violeta Bulc has made it clear to you what the meaning of tachographs is. Mrs. Servant mentioned Mr. Velov. However, we have a response from the Transport Safety Agency, which says that the greatest possible safety of children in transport needs to be pursued. And they're against what you've accepted with the amendment. You have a letter on two sides of the Department of Safe Path that tells you, now colleague Perič said, because we don't have so many traffic accidents. There was one. Well, the Safe Way Department tells you, there's one too. I mean, where you have the face of that kind of thing to say. And your dilemma is, inequality, potential, we have a warning or a danger to everyone. Who's gonna put that on the scale? Who puts the potential inequality in marriage on a scale with a general threat to everyone? An inequality which can be defended and which is very likely not to be justified in the Constitutional Court. And of course now the SMC defends, the coalition is very quiet and lets you deal with these pigs, but this amendment that you have adopted, if it is not adopted, our amendment corrupts this law and if you do not accept our amendment, then let everyone vote against this law together and put up another different version, because it will only be a damage and it will still, as they say in the Safe Way Institute, open up a number of wounds that some have barely healed, which mention where and when the traffic accidents were precisely because of this. When they were taking the kids to practice or from school and to school. Let's face it, come on.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Anyone else? [[Yeah.]] My friend Runk.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u201	Yes, thank you very much for your word. After all, Matthew said well, you know, and that there are children in this story, it is no excuse for us to be long and wide, pathetically “non-involved” about all living things. Grown-up is also that you realize that someone may have played you. Grown up is also that you realize that you may have gone well into something, and you may have forgotten something. Now, when a member of the SMC calls me here, all of your "nebulosis" when Luke is literally quoting Mrs. Bulc, then I really have to ask myself a few questions about health. Of course, the former Commissioner could probably have done more, but in one matter we are similar, and I know her so much – Violeta Bulc is not a bluff. She's getting ready for what she's doing. Same as me. And if she tells you that five years was the most responsible for this in the European Union, for some time the key person of your party, because I don't know what kind of relationship you are in now, if she tells you, stop being crazy and she's a nebulosis. You know, I can't tell you what I have at the end of my speech about health because you can sue me, unlike the other 89, right? Three dots. Let us sink this law, let us reopen it, and let us introduce positive discrimination, as Matthew said. Because this, and this really isn't taking you anywhere anymore. We're not accusing you now that you've broken my mind, a cup of dry pears, but as children you're saying, no, no, no, I'm not, Kordish has flown in because you know how Kordish is, right? [[…]] I mean, the way you're screwed up, you're so screwed up that you can't go through and that's all we want to tell you. We would be home by now, because not all of us are living around the corner of Ljubljana, but we'll be driving around for half an hour, and like, I don't know, this rock, right here, behind Zorčič, if I were to tell, I would've done it already. As it is, it can't go through. Will you then take responsibility or will something happen? No, then you'll be pushing, I don't know that we're blaming no need to be offended, but the thing is as messed up as it is, and our job as a legislator is to pack it away. [[…]] And probably someone who was the European Commissioner in charge of the entire mandate knows more about this as a candidate, and I know more about it than you do, because I was, after all, the scientific coordinator of the project, which is more than the budget of the municipality. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Shacks, right here in this area, and the lady had my book there, I can give it to you, I don't steal books, I give it to you, I give it to you, I can go to the office right now. Let's face it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u202	My friend Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you for your word. I applied once again because I think it is necessary to address the key arguments at the points that defend this law in order to deregulation of the whole field of road transport of children, including for business to cut out the necessity of built-in tachographs. The first argument with which the applicants operate on a large scale is inequality – if we accept the amendment of the Left, then we will agree to the unequal treatment of the various transport operators, the group of children, in road transport. But things, in nature, are not the same, by default. We also have different legal forms. I mean, d.o.o. is another legal person, from society. Why? This is because it is not the same activity established for the same purpose. Parents who take a group of children to training or a society that takes a group of children to a competition do something completely different than someone who charges for carrying children. And here is a fundamental inequality in the nature of things that already exist. If we recognize and set up a different regulation in legislation for NGOs, such as societies where people are engaged because they want to, because they want to contribute because they want to work, and on the other hand the business that carries out the transport of children because they deserve – and just a sector where there is a lot of expensive employment and a lot of abuse and exploitation of workers – that means that things are uneven. And if we admit this inequality in law, we will not do anything wrong. Second argument. Ten years of efforts by associations, NGOs to change the rules for tachographs for their transport of children, we want to sink. Yeah, that's not true. That's not true. If the amendment of the Left is adopted today, but if you think that the law is not yet sufficient and that it needs to continue to be screw-ups for the benefit of NGOs, there is no problem. As soon as the hearing is concluded as soon as the proceedings are concluded, the amendment may be re- tabled and things done so as to be correct. Today's debate does not mean or acceptance of the amendment of the Left does not mean that this is the end of the process of regulating the area for NGOs, because we all tell you from the beginning that making an exception for firefighting societies and sports associations and I do not know what else is that this is, in principle, okay or against this we have nothing. The second argument is responsibility. If, as this main factor in road safety, including road safety when it comes to the transport of children, we are responsible for the steering wheel. But tell me, how can we count on the responsibility of a “some driver” that the employer forces into excessive work and does not have a tachograph in his car to protect? He drives first to Munich airport, then to Venice to the airport, then to Milan back, in the middle sleeps in the back seat of his car, on the way is practically 24 hours – these are examples of practices that we have discussed in this National Assembly at the initiative of the Left in the previous mandate for out-of-way transport such as GoOpti. I think now GoOpti has settled this area a little bit, but this has happened a while back – why? Because there were no tachographs required in their vehicles. And this absence of tachographs that torture drivers, which endangers all road users, now you are transferring overall to the field of transport of children, whole groups of children. You're listening to yourself? Probably an absolute winning argument, however, is the exclaim “who still needs tachographs”. Yeah, but if tachographs are really so irrelevant, why do we have a second day of controversy about these tachographs? Why did you reject all of our initiatives in Levica when we wanted to install tachographs in out-of-way transport? Apparently, tachographs aren't so insignificant. In short, I think that this amendment can be accepted to protect the safety of children in road traffic before anything happens to anyone because of the overworked drivers that employers are stricken with. And if necessary, the legislative process will start again, this time without lobbyist amendments, which will be a legal loophole for business, not to facilitate the life of NGOs, societies and so on, but to facilitate business by generating profits for the cost of endangering the safety of road traffic groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will first decide on the amendment of the left-wing group to Article 2.a. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title of the chapter shall become a transitional and final provision without reference. We're voting. Breakup? An explanation of the voice? My friend Rudy Bear, on behalf of the MP?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u205	On behalf of the House of Representatives, thank you very much, Mr President. It is a pity that the basic essence of the bill is actually mutilated, because we have been and are all of us, mainly, against societies, organisations, firefighters, culturers, athletes and others. And we also believe in their responsibility and that they really respect the standards in road transport. So let's leave school transportation alone. Let's leave school transportation alone, and let's not interfere with the area where things are going well, I come from a congregation that doesn't even know what mountains we're driving our kids to school with this van. And that's where security must come first. And when we return the novel of the law to the very essence that caused it, let us not have firefighters, athletes, culturers, just as our constituents, who will, of course, applaud us, but also think of them when these societies need to be financed. Funding so that they can be better equipped with these funds and, of course, take better care of security. Look, they're somehow helping us raise our children. This responsibility is placed in their hands and, of course, also their responsibility if they are taken or not. So we will support the amendment of the Left, because we believe that it is necessary to go back to the basic substance of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the House of Representatives? A colleague of the Widow's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. We will reject the proposed amendments in the Modern Centre Party Group because we assess and also receive information from the Ministry that it transports for personal use and for non-commercial transport of persons or goods carried by a natural person only for its needs or for its immediate family members and members. By means of a vehicle owned by it, whether it has the right to use a vehicle on the basis of a lease or lease or leasing contract which must be drawn up in writing. This transport shall not be subject to payment or any other compensation and the vehicle may be operated by a person who owns or owns. Whether the use of this vehicle or a close member of its family is entitled to be carried by the spouse and the children of that person who manages the transport for personal use. These are personal needs for vehicles, but when we talk about our own needs, it is about vehicles when primary schools transport their children with their vans. And basic schools for their own purposes, this is, I say, a bill that you're talking about being better, would mean that primary schools would transport children without tachographs. And primary schools also have job systemization for drivers and have employed drivers and would operate without tachographs. And in another, a neighboring school would have these same kids driven by someone who was private, and they would have demanded that he have a tachograph installed. And there's inequality. Inequality for the same service, for the same profession and for the same children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Member of Parliament, anyone else? My friend Runk, on his own.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u209	Yes, because my colleague Rudy has already said a lot, I will paraphrase the current Chairman of the Health Committee, for the children, and I will therefore vote in favour. I must be honest, however, that I am afraid of this so-called Slovenian liberalism, because by this logic someone could say, ma, kid, because the plane doesn't need black boxes, because that app that Kacin also used, you can't use on weekends. [[Laugh]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-06-18-SDZ8-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 78 Members present, for 29, against 46. [[The vote was 29.]] [[There were 46 votes against.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the Left Group to Article 2A has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to the title Transitional and final provision has become irrelevant. We're done deciding on the amendments. I am informing you that I have not been informed by the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members present, for 48, for 13. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against was the vote 13]] . I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 18th meeting of the assembly. The meeting was closed on 18 June 2020 at 17.31.
