ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend the following meetings: Gregor Židan, Franc Kramar, only Bevk until 2 p.m. and Michael Prevc. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to six. PERIOD OF THE DAY — OTHER DEFINITIONS OF THE PROPOSAL FOR AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE INTEGRATION AND COOPERATION LAW, REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Before I give my word, procedurally, Comrade Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. I have one question for you. Informally, this country has been in the epidemic for several months, officially a few days, and we have a meeting of the National Assembly, where there is still no adequate distance between Members, and the Chamber is not adapted. At the same time, the government introduces a curfew, threatening to punish unruly citizens and citizens. I therefore ask you, Mr President, when and how you will ensure conditions for the normal, unhindered work of the National Assembly in the context of the epidemic, in particular, the conditions for Members and Members to be able to maintain a distance between debates. I do not ask you to interrupt or anything that concerns me, the matter may go on, at least citizens and citizens will see how the government of Janez Janša is addressing the epidemic at the same time as it is dealing with its own people with repression. I'm not even that worried about myself, I'm young, I'm going to get the crown, I'm going to survive it without any major consequences, but every one of us is also in contact with any older relatives, friends, whatever, even by chance, and not every member of the National Assembly of 30 years old, but it can be that we're also endangering our colleagues and colleagues who are perhaps a little in years, maybe someone who is in poorer health, and this inappropriate establishment of the National Council for Epidemics can pose a threat to him.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Comrade Kordish, this is not a procedural proposal. If you have any proposal regarding measures relating to the prevention of the spread of the epidemic, I respectfully invite you to forward it to the cabinet. As far as the measures are concerned, these are directed in the National Assembly in accordance with the NIJS recommendations, with which our services are in constant contact. You are so invited to make any suggestions. However, as for the very part of the National Assembly, I am one of those proponents that the National Assembly must also act in the most difficult circumstances, and by no means what you now propose between the lines, to delegate its function to the government. We will work here as long as it takes for the function of the National Assembly to be carried out as it comes and goes. I give my word to a representative of the Magnificent Government. Lilliani Kozlovich, who will present a complementary explanation of the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Members and Members! Today we are considering a new law regulating the approach to building integrity and preventing corruption. This is an important law and the vote on the parental committee has further confirmed this, as the coalition has confirmed the opposition's amendments and vice versa. The objective of all of us is a well-functioning and operational Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and precisely new tools in the areas of strengthening integrity, preventing corruption, transparency and retaining the powers to investigate concrete practices improve our society's immune system in this area. The new law was drawn up by the previous government, which was based on the needs that have arisen in practice, as well as the decisions of the courts, and improves the position of individuals in pre-KPC proceedings and also responds to the recommendations of international organisations. The current coalition has complemented the proposal and further improved the amendment. A key change is that the KPC aims to strengthen the preventive and supervisory role and clearly delimits the power to prosecute the criminal offence of corruption in the hands of the police and the State Prosecutor's Office, and the proposed changes follow the vision of the new President and the Senate of the Commission. This ambiguity has in the past caused many difficulties in implementing the law and also in understanding the role of the Commission. We do not take any responsibility for the Commission, as it will be able to address the challenges of corruption with principled opinions and conclusions on a specific case, on the infringement of integrity and thus effectively carry out its preventive and supervisory functions, and on the basis of the suspicions of corruption committed by the competent authorities. According to our assessment, the proposed solutions are such that KPK provides the appropriate tools for efficient work, which regulates the legal basis for the functioning of the Erar application, which allows a transparent presentation of the public sector's activities; clearly and definitively regulates the procedures of the participants before the commission; expands the control of the assets by including state-owned company supervisors; with a somewhat replaced set of debtors, for whom data on changes in the property situation should be published, it is easier to publish changes that the Commission will finally be able to implement after ten years of the law; and in the area of lobbying, additional tools and controls are given to the Commission in order to become more transparent in order to make the regulatory process in the country. The novela brings the change our society needs. This is that the functioning of the Commission can achieve a change in the long term in understanding of the concept of integrity. I therefore propose that we support the law together. However, I also propose that if the business conditions are met, a third consideration of the bill will also be held at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished minister, I ask you all to speak as close to the microphone as possible because it's a little harder to hear. But our services have reported that the volume has been tuned to the end. So as close to the microphone as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption as a working body at its 19th meeting on 1 October 2020, following a public presentation of opinions by the SDS Group on 13 November 2019 at its proposal. In an additional explanation for the articles, the representative of the proposer, Minister of Justice of the Ministry of Justice, Liljana Kozlovic, presented in the introduction the importance of the proposed solutions, which envision activities and measures in the area of increasing the degree of integrity and limiting corruption risks. The draft law follows the guidance, purpose and objectives of the current law, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption retains the position of an independent and independent body in the exercise of its powers and legal powers, in particular by strengthening its preventive supervisory function. In presenting their written legal opinion, the representative of the Law and Law Service, Špela Maček Gustin, pointed out that the proposal for a law is extensive and regulates in detail considerablely fragmented legal matter, which could hinder a uniform understanding or interpretation of the regulation. The amendments tabled in writing do not take full account of the Law-Legal Service, and she reiterated that terms which can be interpreted in different ways are used in terms of definitions. Article 7 of the proposed amendment regulating the functioning of the PSC provides, inter alia, that the PSC shall publish the findings and decisions of its proceedings before final judicial review and even if the action has not been brought within the appropriate time limit. Such an arrangement is excessive because it can cause irreparable harmful consequences due to its prematureity in relation to judicial control. Article 9 of the proposed novel, which regulates the competence of the PKK in the suspicion of corruption, provides, inter alia, that the PKK also publishes information on its websites on infringement decisions, which is in direct contradiction with the regulation of criminal records under the Offences Act. In this regard, she drew attention to the Supreme Court judgment concerning access to information on judgments. The proposed regulation is also excessive in view of the fact that it is more stringent than the general treatment of persons who are officials and thus interfere with electoral law. It also referred to the proposal for an amendment to Article 9, which, in the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, substantially exceeds the content of this Article and causes a lack of consistency of regulation and introduces ambiguity to these solutions and breaches of the rule of law. State Councillor Rajko Fajt presented the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State regulation, which does not support the proposal for a law due to a number of uncertainties and comments from the Legislative and Legal Service and other stakeholders. In its opinion, the Commission stressed that the amendment should preserve all elements of the functioning of the KPK, which have been supplemented in the past period and are also recognised by the Supreme Court. The Commission has expressed concern about the financial and human resources independence of the PSC in particular with regard to the definition of new tasks and responsibilities. The President of the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Dr Robert Šumi, expressed support for the proposed amendment, which will help to make the PKK more effective – this is an important anti-corruption body – and to strengthen the integrity of accountability and transparency of the public sector as a whole. He stressed the preventive control function which distinguishes KPK from the powers of the police and the prosecution, and also suggested a reflection on how to address systemic corruption risks. In the debate, the coalition Members supported the proposed amendments, as they will, together with the proposed and proposed amendments to the KPK, make it possible to work effectively. The new leadership gives the KPK expertise and credibility, and they also stressed the importance of its professionalisation and proactive role in society. The opposition MEPs have pointed out that the KPK is only a toothless tiger and a low level of perception of corruption in Slovenian society, and therefore it is essential that this area is well regulated at a normative level. They were also interested in the arrangements for the protection of whistleblowers. The representatives of the proposer stressed that the novelties under consideration did not undermine the concept of the current regime and provided some additional clarifications. By adopting the amendments tabled and three of its amendments and all articles, the Committee has jointly drafted the text of the amended law, which includes the amendments adopted and is an integral part of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Rudi Medved will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	Dear President, distinguished Minister, colleague and colleague! Inadvertently for a long time, policy has been involved in amending the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Some of this can be attributed to political will or trouble, but sometimes the reasons are more banal. The one I'm saying isn't the key, but it's important. For several years, the law has been passed by the Ministry of Public Administration and Justice, almost losing track of jurisdiction. The government of Marjan Šarc cut this off and the amendment of the law found a relatively quick way to the National Assembly. The basic purpose of increasing the effectiveness of the anti-corruption commission as an independent and independent body remains so. Although we do not agree with some of the amendments introduced by the current coalition in the text. I am talking in particular about deleting the introduction of a system-wide control that would increase transparency and measures on public sector responsibility. However, the changes in the law are here, and it is right that we finally accept them. Not only because Slovenia, according to the corruption perception index, is taking a not-so-reputable 35th place between 180 countries and there has been no progress since 2012. We probably can't promise progress in the short run. The plenary logic of this government when it comes to the acquisition of protective equipment, ideological cadres, the loss of a sense of separation between the public and private at the ruling coalition – all of this will certainly not drive Slovenia up the ladder. However, this 35th city is not only the result of the failure to change the law for so long. They are countries that do not have such commissions and are significantly higher on the scale. More decisive is the belief of most people in Slovenia that corruption in this country is a problem. And it is good that the current president of the Commission sees in these legal solutions a good tool to fight corruption, not a constant repetition of the phrase that the commission is a toothless tiger. On the other hand, due to policy, too many expectations have been created artificially at the expense of the Commission. All together, we were under-aware and under-emphasized its preventive role. The Commission does not conduct criminal investigations, has no prosecutorial powers and is not a court. This raises questions in public about what the commission is and what we have from it. At the same time, some discouragement is created, as no one gets hurt and there are fewer and fewer reports of corruption. So corruption is no less, but reporting corruption suspicions is less. Is our attitude toward corruption changing? Or are we becoming more tolerant of these phenomena? I hope not. So let me mention the last case with the Minister of Agriculture. The PKK found that there was a suspicion of corruption in its actions, and part of the policy also made it clear to the public that all of this was nothing but a political pursuit. It is no longer just an act that gives rise to suspicion of corruption, but wants to be reinvigorated in terms of – but now we are going to prosecute someone who is supposed to be doing a great job because of EUR 400? These are double criteria, this is a double morality, totally unacceptable in modern democratic society. Corruption has no color or color and must never be a political affiliation criterion, whether an act is or is not corrupt. Never. We give to the Anti-Corruption Commission a few tools that will contribute to its greater effectiveness and strengthen its independence and independence. In doing so, we need to know that the Commission itself cannot eradicate corruption, nor can we attribute to it the responsibility for the emergence of corruption in society. The burden of fighting this evil is upon us, all of us. But the greatest burden lies in politics with its attitude and zero tolerance for these phenomena. To the President of the Anti-Corruption Commission, which is only a good half-years old, we wish to work successfully, and we can hope that these changes of the law will give him a good way to deal with the persistent evil called corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Most political parties, both old and newly established, also address voters before the elections with promises of a decisive fight against corruption. Social Democrats did not just stand by the promises, because Mrs Andreja Katič, former Justice Minister, together with her team, prepared and coordinated this amendment of the law and submitted it to the National Assembly for consideration because we committed ourselves to fighting corruption and to provide the Commission with the appropriate tools to prevent corruption for effective work. Today we are making this commitment. Slovenia has not seen progress since 2012 in the Transparency International Transparency International Corruption Perception Index and has again been below the European Union average in its results for 2019. Therefore, the adoption of this novel is all the more urgent. While the Commission does not prosecute or investigate crimes, this is what the police and the prosecution do. However, the Commission has an important role to play in investigating alleged cumulative acts, i.e. it plays an important role in preventing corruption, informing the police and the prosecution of suspected crimes and issuing a fundamental opinion. It is important that authorities fighting corruption have effective means and tools for their work. More importantly, it is important that these bodies are independent and that no one can influence their decisions, especially their policies. The Social Democrats therefore welcome the solutions provided by these novels. Above all, procedures for suspected corruption and violations of the law will be more effective and faster. In order to gain the best staff to combat corruption, the conditions for appointing Commission officials are changing. A new condition of personality is introduced. There is a wide range of officials who are obliged to report their assets, a public publication of information on changes in the assets of officials is being made available, direct supervision of citizens and citizens over the use of public funds through the Erar system, which is the legal basis for this novelty. It also strengthens lobbying control, simplifies gift arrangements and renews conflicts of interest. The amendments to the novel also address the warnings of international organisations. Some of the findings of the Administrative and Supreme Court from the past are further taken into account. It is very important that the new President of the Commission also supports the proposal for a new law. The fact is that in order to effectively combat corruption and prevent corruption risks, we need an effective anti-corruption commission, which will have clear and strong powers and appropriate tools to work effectively to tackle corruption risks. That Slovenia will no longer fall behind the average, but will approach the most successful countries in the fight against corruption, such as New Zealand and Denmark. From all of this, the Social Democrats will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Dušan Verbič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, Minister of Justice! All the others here have a very nice greeting! In 2004, the adopted resolution on the prevention of corruption in the Republic of Slovenia, the law and the establishment of the Commission were three factors that meant that we fully complied with the recommendations made by GRECO by Slovenia. In the SMC, we are confident that this novelty will follow all the complications that the KPK has been following since 2006, when the National Assembly, on a proposal from a group of Members for a short period of time, even put an end to it, but has been retained in life by the Constitutional Court until 2010 and 2011, when a new basis has been laid for its operation by means of the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption, allowing the PKK to carry out its mission without its limited functioning, or will continue to be an independent and independent body implementing measures in the area of increasing the degree of integrity and limiting corruption risks. As is known, since the establishment of this government office, discussions have been under way since the adoption of the law in 2010 on the role of the KPK. Therefore, a new amendment was made soon after the adoption of the 2010 applicable law, setting out new procedures or competences of the Commission and could still be listed. The amended and later proven to be a flawed law and two distinct self-determinations of the President of the KPK with different modes of action and understanding of their role have raised different expectations for people according to the functioning of the Commission. However, after reverberations, since 2014, or almost six years, and in three governments under two or three ministers and ministers, we have been working on this latest novel, which we are considering today. This time, too, is the biggest problem since the Commission can cooperate with law enforcement authorities and cannot carry out its tasks on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to preserve the investigation of corruption cases with sufficient legal protection of the investigators in these proceedings and to further highlight the preventive part of the Commission's work. Not to mention the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which, due to conceptual concerns, highlighted a completely different solution or approach, as well as the comments of many stakeholders who, as already mentioned, see the role of the PSC in their own way. Let us once again draw attention to the fundamental objective of the law and the role of the KPK. The fundamental objective is to ensure that public servants and officials carry out their work in a fair, professional, transparent manner and to enable the legitimate, transparent, prudent and fair and effective functioning of the State as a public service. In achieving these basic objectives of the law, the KPC plays a central role both in dealing with individual cases and in strengthening and managing the institutional network of anti-corruption activities of integrity and transparency in the public sector. And that's it. For the smooth exercise of its powers and tasks, which are being expanded by the proposal for a law, the SMC advocates that the Ministry of Justice provide human resources reinforcements within the professional service of this commission. The law and the amendment of the state budget for 2021 and 2022 provide resources for the employment of five new staff. Accordingly, the SMC Group supports the amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Miha Kordiš will present the position of the Levica Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Whenever Janez Janša is in power, commission goes to heaven. Masks, fans, arms deals, past and future, drawn on the horizon with a government intention to target 780 million euros instead of the health and well-being of people for the purchase of unnecessary weapons. Glasses of staff cleaning and business for friends, that's corruption, and that's the government of Janez Janša. But corruption is actually wider than just commissions. Corruption is by definition an invasion of private interest in the public interest. Particularly intensely, this public interest is being shattered just under governments as it is at present. I will give you one concrete example. In the last half of the year, despite the threat of the second wave, the government of Janez Janša did not provide a single additional bed at infectious clinics, nor did it provide any additional dislocated departments in nursing homes and today an epidemic cuts through the country. How did Janez Janša’s government react? With a curfew for citizens and citizens, at the same time she has allocated EUR 50 million to private health care, even though public health is the one that pursues public interest and protects us from the epidemic. This is also corruption, including corruption, legalised corruption. What, then, do you think of such a government when the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption is passed on the table? Such a marriage is likely to have redacted and amended articles, but it will not have teeth. That's exactly what happened. Amendments to the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption have been announced since 2013, since the resignation of the then KPK Senate. Finally, the amendment, which was discussed today, was on the table in the previous term, but the mandate of the National Assembly had expired earlier. Today it is in the process of almost identical form, including all shortcomings. The first question that is on the table is what the Ministry of Justice has been doing in the meantime. During the previous term of office, an extremely negative opinion with a set of comments was given by the Legislative and Legal Service, comments were made by the Supreme State Prosecutor, Transparency International, Information Officer, and a public presentation of the opinions was made. A number of warnings and criticisms were given there, too. The proposal we have on the table is only partially improved, I'm afraid. The way this law is drafted suggests that the government is more than fighting corruption and intensifying the fight against corruption in the interest of not changing anything. So that someone else can pick up the phone and tell the state authority or agency who to appoint or hire. In order for the second track project, the Karavanka tunnel or 780 million weapons affairs to fall, there could be another commission. The biggest problem for the Commission to prevent corruption is that it has some powers, but every time it uses them, the final decisions fall before the courts. The procedure before the Commission is unclear and insufficient, some competences are presented for difficulties, problems with legal bases for the processing and publication of personal data. If we add to this the fact that the Commission has been dealing with itself more recently than the actual fight against corruption for which it is intended and, as a result, the reputation of the Commission is declining, it is clear that all the preconditions for the growth of corruption are met. And the government of Janez Janša can run the country further. We had quite a few comments on the law in Levica in the previous term, but we supported the proposal at first reading. We were confident that the government would continue to address the concerns expressed in the public presentation of opinions and in the opinion of the SPS through the second and third readings. Two and a half years later, however, we find with disappointment that we have almost the same proposal. The situation was consistent with all past governments and officials, whether it was abuse of position, concealment of property, indecency of name or money of unexplained origin, it is common for all actors — as long as the system is as it is, it is easier to challenge the Commission’s findings when it does its work; while the system is as it is, it is easier to manipulate the findings, it is easier to manifest itself as a victim of increasingly complex and dark conspiracy theories, political structures and anything else that comes along. And there is certainly no shortage of this in the government of Janez Janša, just as there is no shortage of corruption.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Say good-bye again! The issue of preventing corruption and the standard of integrity in our society is undoubtedly one of the most challenging issues. The rule of law depends on the morality and integrity of people working in the field of public life, detection and prosecution, and on the general rule of law. The adoption of this law of corruption in Slovenia alone will not, of course, end. Integrity, ethics and morality are more than just respect for legislation and regulations, as the general principle is that the law prescribes only a minimum of moral principles. The amendment of legislation in this area and the drafting of this law has a long beard, since it was the last amendment to the law in 2011. Since then, there has been a constant discussion of the need to amend legislation, but this has not happened. The OECD also called on the Republic of Slovenia to conclude as soon as possible the legislative procedure for amending the law on integrity and preventing corruption, as it considered this step essential to strengthen the Commission's role in preventing corruption. The proposed novel is prepared on the basis of a proposal prepared in the previous mandate. The National Assembly concluded the hearing for the elections. The current text was forwarded to the National Assembly last year by the previous government. A public presentation of the opinions was also made. The Legislative and Legal Service has made a number of comments on the proposed text of the law. Most of them have been taken into account in the drafting of the coalition's amendments and included in the amended bill. However, some comments from the Legal and Legislative Service were not fully taken into account, as we followed international recommendations after a stricter treatment of those who are officials. The bill follows the guidelines, purposes and objectives of the current Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. The Commission shall, in order to prevent corruption, maintain the position of an independent and independent body in the exercise of its powers and legal powers. Its preventive control function is strengthened, after which the KPK differs significantly from the detection and prosecution authorities. The solutions proposed mainly follow the following objectives or orientations. The types and rules of procedure and the rights and obligations of those involved in the procedures run by the PSC are clearly defined, with the current concept of dealing with the suspicion of corruption being modified by focusing on the finding of a breach of integrity. The conditions for the appointment of KPK officials shall be defined in more detail and the selection procedure shall be clearly separated from the appointment procedure. Certain simplifications shall be introduced, for example, in the field of gifts where the area of non-receiving gifts is regulated solely for officials and public servants. The section on operating restrictions, conflicts of interest and control over property is being renewed. More specifically, the legal basis for the operation and upgrading of the Erar system, the KPC's online tool to determine the transparency of public spending. The provisions on KPC records and offences under the law on integrity and the prevention of corruption are being supplemented. In Novi Slovenija, it seems particularly important to us that the finding of infringements is too cooperative in the way that the rights of the persons being dealt with by the Commission are also respected. In Novi Slovenija we welcome that changes to the law are also followed by an appropriate increase in the Commission's resources over the next two years and consequently an additional number of employees up to ten. Both will enable the Commission to become more independent and independent and better working conditions. The NSI Group will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As has already been said, the law before us today has a long beard. The debate on the necessary changes began in 2013 with the resignation of President Zoran Klemenčič, who based his resignation on insufficient legislation and bound deadlines in the functioning of the Commission. The international organisations have also warned Slovenia that this area needs to be regulated and the legislative framework for the functioning of the KPK amended. In this way, GRECO and the OECD have highlighted in particular the procedure by which suspected acts of corruption are investigated, the political independence of the Commission and, last but not least, the provision of sufficient human resources and financial resources. Let me remind you that the two most important decisions of the KPK under the leadership of the previously mentioned Zoran Klemenčič fell at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia precisely because of the above-mentioned laws, which are also pointed out by international organisations. And that's why, if you remember, the government fell. The European Commission also highlighted in its report on the rule of law in the European Union in September this year concerns about the gap between legislation and practice in the fight against corruption. After all the attempts to amend the law today, we have reached a point where it shows, at least so, that there seems to be sufficient political consensus to regulate this area. The proposal does not contain new solutions, but primarily builds on the provisions of the current regime, which is controversial for some, but is the law before us. In particular, the process before the Commission and the procedural rights as well as the obligations of the parties involved in these proceedings shall be clarified and improved. As has been said, the conditions for appointment of officials are also defined in more detail, uniformity in the field of gifts is regulated and more specifically the basis for the functioning of the Erar online tool. The new President of the Commission has also shown support for the law, stressing the preventive or supervisory function of the Commission, which limits its powers and powers of law enforcement authorities. In the SAB, we fully agree with him on this view. We also believe that, as representatives of one of the branches of government in the country, we must show zero tolerance for corruption and other unethical practices. It is with the effective pursuit of corruption that huge savings, including purely concrete financial savings, could be made in our country. We want the anti-corruption commission to focus in the future on the search for major systemic corruption, according to the so-called systemic corruption. We therefore regret the fact that the amendment coalition deleted Article 10, which regulated this system-wide control. The KPC can contribute most precisely to preventing such corruption. If we already have such a body, we must also ensure that it is effective and operational in this area. It must be clearly determined what the powers of the Commission are and not interfere with the powers of the law enforcement authorities. In 2010, the adoption of the Law on Integrity and the Prevention of Corruption decided that the Commission was a preventive body whose decisions did not constitute a decision on criminal or disciplinary liability. This has sometimes been controversial in the past, but such a function must be maintained by the Commission in the future. In this context, it is an important provision which makes it even more clear that in the event of suspected criminal offences, the Commission must bring an action before the competent state prosecutor. In the SAB Group, therefore, we will support the proposal for a law that the previous government has mainly drawn up and has also aligned it with all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! After many years of drafting the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, which started six years ago under the auspices of the Ministry of Public Administration, we will, it appears, today, receive an improved regulatory basis for the Commission's action to prevent corruption. This time, it is a text that has received the final picture of today's second reading of the plenary session through the intertwining of proposals and the improvement of texts practically by all parliamentary parties and taking into account the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. It is also crucial that the President of the Commission himself expressed his satisfaction with the text to prevent corruption. The new law does not significantly affect the content of the regulation in force, but strongly builds on it in order to improve the supervisory function and prevent the anti-corruption commission. The tasks and powers relating to conduct which are morally and ethically controversial or even criminal are clearly demarcated between the Commission, the police and the prosecution. With the greater preventive and supervisory role of the Commission, we can significantly improve the degree of integrity of transparency and non-corruption in our social environment and the novelty of this objective, according to the assessment of the Desus Group. For the expertise and thus the success of the mission of the KPK institution itself, its composition is crucial, with the novelty providing for innovations in the process of appointing its officials. The structure of the members changes slightly in the Commission which has led the selection process so far. By means of a more precise candidate procedure and a new more acute condition, which will have to be met by the candidates themselves for the highest functions in the KPK, this candidature commission is facilitated by facilitating work while at the same time giving some more responsibility to examine candidates. This will benefit the President of the Republic, who will make it easier for him to choose from truly the most professional and personal candidates. As it is an awareness of the importance of integrity and ethical standards, as well as knowledge of concepts such as transparency, lobbying, customerism, nepotism, chronism and so on, the work of the Commission in this area, with more emphasis on the new, will be precisely aimed at raising awareness and informing the general and professional public. At the same time, this will help to expose corruption and other illegal or unethical practices, while ensuring the protection of personal data in public publications. Greater control of property status will also contribute to improving the perception of corruption, as managers and supervisors in state-owned or local-owned enterprises will also be subject to this. Finally, the prospect of wealth is extended to state saints. Otherwise, the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law contain some other provisions that will facilitate the work of the PSC itself and, on the other hand, all those subject to asset control or to the mandatory conduct of the law in question. Slovenia has been in position on the anti-corruption index charts for several years at about the same place, on the average of EU and OECD Member States. The effective legal basis for the functioning of the Commission is a tool that can contribute to improving the perception of corruption risks, enhancing the awareness of the individual and society in general of the state and spirit of integrity. Only on the basis of the clear, decisive actions of the competent authorities can we make progress as a society. Last but not least on the international rankings. In this area we will have to do a lot more in Slovenia. First of all, the individual’s conscience is crucial, whether it be an average citizen or a public servant or another official or a political official, so that he can make the most of it. The proposal for a new Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption by the Desus Group has single support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	Hello! The obligations of the anti-corruption regime of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia are not expressly laid down. This law will give us the status of the KPK, which will have the status of a superjudgmental authority. The argument that we are bound by international treaties on this regime does not stand because most smart countries in Europe do not have such an institution. This is what we say, we do our own thing, and we forget that we are an autonomous country that can regulate internal affairs as it thinks. There is no legal protection for those who will receive them in the KPK claw. The fact is, the KPK has prepared the KPK. In fact, this is about the law that Mr Klemenčič has drawn up and is only a small amendment to that basic law, which means full police control of the life and work of all people, and especially of the people in public administration. The whole species is a dispute, and two are probably the worst, in Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This Article 7 infringes on the principle of the division of power, since it is determined to the administrative authority how and when and against whom the courts will deal. This is unacceptable for an external body, which will become a political body, to determine which person will be processed and sought. In Article 9, we have once again one such strange matter, which says that immediately after the jurisdiction of the decision on a violation of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it will publish all data on the offender. That is to say, a personal name, a name, a legal person's seat, a violation, a description of the circumstances and a sanction imposed. And that'll be five years on the website. It is a matter of preparing a political Inquisition and we in the Slovenian National Party are against it. Once published, they will spit on the person and will not actually be able to “repeat” him anymore. It's that toothpaste system, once you squeeze it out of the tube, you can't get it back. But this inquisitor mode of action seems to some in Slovenia to be very weathery and they probably already have a list ready to process. Article 9, paragraph 9, states: “If the Commission finds that there are systemic corruption risks in a given area, it shall issue a recommendation on the correct conduct of the entities operating in this area.” That means KPK will write a letter to the prosecution, to the court, to the police, to be investigated and investigated. I mean, gentlemen, you have to have a little brains! Such matters and such a law would have been prepared or if Ceaușescu were still alive, he would probably have proposed such a law. But it's not like we're adopting such a law in one, it's supposed to be democratic, it's supposed to be arranged, it's supposed to be the state. Erar also receives a legal basis through this. That, I don't know, doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. I don't know what we're doing. There is no doubt that criminal provisions are too high, for they will always focus on those who speak and think with their own heads. Those who steal a lot will be left alone. Above all, I do not understand certain political parties who have been given a good head by the abuse of KPK, but will just support all of this. I don't know where he is. Here in this national council, there seems to be very little. I had hoped that the ministry would look at this matter differently so that they would not comply with the demands of Klemenčič and some GRECO institution, which is its own purpose and which no smart country uses in its operation. Just like the various other things involved in the political functioning of the countries. We should skip that, too. We will not support this marriage in any way. But I hope the one you're about to get over this marriage has a lot on your mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mag. Mr Kaloh will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	President, thank you very much. Dear Minister! Dear fellow Members! 10 years have passed since the entry into force of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. This is a fundamental act of law for the Commission's action to prevent corruption and it is now before us an important and extensive novelty of this law, the third in line to be confirmed today in the National Assembly. Representatives of the KPK also participated in the public presentation of opinions on the amendment to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption. Later, after the appointment of the new President in April this year, the Commission has been constructively working with you with its proposals to improve its preventive supervisory function. The proposed ZintPK-C amendment amends and complements those provisions of the law that further enhance the effectiveness of the KPK in a given segment and preserves its role as an independent and independent state authority. The Novela thus brings a number of useful improvements to the work of the KPK in preventing corruption and strengthening integrity. Therefore, the concept of the Commission's functioning does not change with the novelty and there was no need for a completely new law. We believe, however, that the desired level of professionalisation of the Commission will be achieved, and especially thanks to this adopted novelty. This, however, will be shown primarily in the light of the legality, expertise and ethics of its operation. The amendments of the coalition adopted by the Committee on Justice on 1 October 2020 have further improved and have taken good account of the recommendations and solutions of the Legislative and Legal Service. The areas covered are also covered by the recommendations of GRECA and OECD. The proposed solutions from the novel also address all the open recommendations of international organisations that have assessed the Republic of Slovenia in the field of anti-corruption relating to the legal framework and functioning of the PKK. The main solutions to the amendment can be highlighted as follows: the President of the Republic is given more freedom in the appointment of the KPK President and his deputies, the delimitation of powers between the commission, the police and the prosecution, the legal basis for the operation of the Erar application, additional information will be included and the functioning of the public sector will be made even more transparent. There is widespread control of the property situation of persons, and from now on, supervisors in state-owned enterprises will be subject to this, there will be unification of controls on the acceptance of gifts in the public sector, and procedural guarantees of persons in pre-commission proceedings are regulated. More clearly, however, the area of systemic control of the KPK is also regulated. The Commission will thus be able to issue, on its own initiative, so-called preventive recommendations and thus address possible systemic corruption risks. Additional attention is paid to the publication of documents following completed procedures before the KPK. Thus, the publication, taking into account the protection of the personal data of other persons and other protected data, is intended for a narrower circle of officials and legal persons, taking into account the nature of the function, position or work of those persons and the types of procedures managed by the PSC, duly follows the principle of proportionality of the law governing the protection of personal data. By confirming this novelty, we will make it clear that there is sufficient, in fact, a broader political will to strengthen integrity in the public sector as well as in the whole of Slovenian society in the area of more effective prevention of corruption. We will, of course, support the amendment of the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption-C within the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. Ten. 2020. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. The amendment will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 4th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to five. It's a day's work. This is the third defence proposal for a law amending the law on ombudsman protection and family benefits within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the National Council for consideration. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the State Council, Ladislav Rožić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Allow me to clarify once again that the Council of State has decided to submit a proposal for a law amending the Law on Parental Protection of Family Benefits to the National Assembly with a view to ensuring a higher level of social security for parents who work part-time for the protection of children, and consequently for their families. In accordance with article 50 of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, one of the parents who nurtures and protects the child is able to exercise the right to work with reduced working hours due to parenthood. In addition, it is laid down that an employer who works part-time shall be granted the right to pay under an actual employment obligation and that the Republic of Slovenia shall, in contrast to the full employment obligation, provide him with the payment of social security contributions from the proportional part of the minimum wage. From the point of view of the height of the pension base, parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time due to parenthood are in a worse position than they would have been if they were working full-time. According to the proposal of the State Council, this situation could be significantly improved by proposing to pay social security contributions from the proportional part of the monthly gross salary of the employee and not from the minimum wage. That proposal, however, then at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons and subsequently in the framework of this plenary, has undergone certain changes, with a large measure of satisfaction to our purpose, while at the same time facilitating the implementation of the legal provisions. The Council of State reiterates its satisfaction that the Government and Members of the National Assembly have recognised that this is a problem that demands immediate solutions, and I hope that you will also be fully supportive of the draft law at the third stage of the hearing today. Once again, to all those who have been constructively involved in the drafting of the legislative solutions that have been put forward for decision, I sincerely thank, on behalf of the State Council, both coalition and opposition parliamentary groups, and of course also the competent Ministry of Labour and the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. There is no doubt that we have taken an important step together to protect one of the most vulnerable groups of employees. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Marko Koprivc will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much, President, for your word. Respected and respected! Social Democrats will be a novel of the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which improves the position of parents who benefit from the right to reduced working time due to the care or protection of the child, even this time in the third reading of the amendment of the law. The applicant proposes that the State ensure to those parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time due to the care or protection of the child the payment of social security contributions to full employment from the proportionate part of his monthly gross salary, with the basis for calculating the social contributions of the parent calculated in the same way as the basis for the maternity, paternity and parental compensation. Currently, the State pays social contributions to parents exercising this right to full employment from the proportional part of the minimum wage. In this way, these parents are in an unequal position compared to others, as they receive lower salaries due to shorter working hours and consequently pay lower social contributions, thus risking working longer hours due to shorter retirement periods and having a lower pension. In order to exercise the right to part-time work, parents do not make decisions because of their own desires, but because of the need to provide care or to protect their children, thus following the child’s greatest benefit. Because of the weaknesses mentioned in the current legislation, parents who have not been able to provide protection or care in any other way at the time of their work have thus far made the decision to exercise the right to part-time work. The amendment to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits proposed by the State Council thus reinforces measures in the field of family policy aimed at facilitating family and professional coordination. The amendment also fulfils the commitment made in the family resolution to create appropriate and encouraging conditions for family decision-making and to achieve a high level of quality of family life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! Today, too, the proposal for a third-reading law will be supported by the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. As we said a month ago, the new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits opens up several aspects of reconciliation of work and family life, including the relationship between employers and employees who exercise the right to reduced working time due to parenthood, and the different treatment of parents in paying social security contributions that have decided to exercise this right. Today, therefore, we are considering a measure that is among the positive discrimination measures. Although there is a minor change in the law, the effects are particularly important in terms of preventing less favourable starting positions and in terms of creating equal opportunities for certain categories of persons, in our case parents who protect the child and need a legal framework within which they will not be discriminated against in the workplace. It is therefore right that we are today correcting the provision of the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, which in some cases has had an almost opposite effect from what is expected and which has led some parents to fail to take advantage of this right. Those who have taken advantage of this option today receive a lower salary for their work, have a lower pension base and consequently a lower pension. In most cases it is women who benefit from this right and it is right to improve the current regime, which has proved inappropriate. The initial text of the law tabled by the Council of State is complementary in the legislative procedure both at the home committee and at the September meeting of the National Assembly, and we therefore support the solution that the basis for the payment of the social security contribution as the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia is determined and calculated in the same way as for the calculation of the basis for the mother, father and parental compensation, taking into account the upper and lower limits. The ceiling is thus the same as for the father's and parent's compensation, which is equal to two and a half times the average monthly salary for the full absence of work, by harmonisation on the basis of the law governing the coordination of transfers to individuals and households in the Republic of Slovenia. The amendment to the bill adopted at the second reading of the assembly, which ensures equal treatment of parents, governs the transition to a new arrangement for those parents who have already been granted this right. As of 1 January 2021, these parents will also be entitled to a more favourable base from which the Republic of Slovenia will pay their contributions, even though the social work centres will issue a new decision, for example, in March 2021. Those parents whose applications will be submitted after 1 January 2021 on 1 January 2021 shall be given the right in accordance with the new regime. As we say in the introduction, we will also support the law in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Hello! A key element of social and civil progress is the elimination of inequalities arising from race, nationality, sex, economic situation, individual financial capacity or any other external factor. Equal opportunities for all for equal opportunities at work, in social protection, access to health and care services, retirement and family planning are an indicator of the extent to which society is truly solidarity. The proposed amendments to the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, submitted by the State Council, affect two key chapters of the Solidarity Society: the possibility of decent retirement and family planning. The existing law on parental protection and family benefits provides, inter alia, for part-time work and proportional pay for parents who care for one or two children. In the event that an employee or a self-employed parent benefits from this right, the State shall cover social security contributions for the period when it does not work. For the basis, he takes the minimum wage and does not pay, which the parent receives from the title of his work. As a correction of this non-compliance, the State Council now calls on parents exercising the right to reduced working time under this Act to pay contributions from the proportionate part of the salary they receive. This would raise the level of contributions paid to all, both by the State Council. Well, except for those parents who are already getting a minimum wage. The proposal to amend the law is thus controversial in terms of fairness. We see no reason for parents to receive various amounts of contributions paid and consequently various high pensions for the protection and care of their children, as this would constitute a fundamental injustice in the treatment of social work. It is not justified and it is not right that inequality in the workplace is translated into inequality in the exercise of parental care, care and the protection of children. In Levica we cannot agree to conditions that translate poverty due to poor work into poverty into child care or long-term poverty among pensioners. There is no valid reason in the Left Group for differences in the amounts of contributions paid by the State for parents who, if they worked, would receive salaries at different levels from the employer. We see no reason why parents would receive various amounts of paid contributions for the protection and care of their children and, consequently, a different amount of high pensions, as this would constitute a fundamental injustice in the treatment of social work. However, we agree with the proposaler's basic objective by increasing the amount of social security contributions paid during the period of exercise of justice. That the minimum possible basis for the payment of contributions is established is due to unnecessary savings. This, in turn, discourages parents from exercising this right too often, rather than encouraging them to exercise justice. In Levica, we propose that, in accordance with the aim of the applicant, children's care and protection during the exercise of the right to reduced working time for all workers or parents should be valued more and equally. We therefore propose that the basis for the calculation and payment of contributions be taken into account for the average gross salary in the Republic of Slovenia for the previous year. If our complement, which, as a basis for the calculation and payment of contributions, therefore, takes into account the average wage and, as such, follows the proposaler's actual intention to increase the amount of social security contributions paid, the law will also see our support as a small step in the right direction. In a society as rich as ours, there is no reason not for singles and singles, those with the lowest incomes, workers in poorly paid occupations without hardships, without worrying about the future of parenthood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Alexander Reberšek will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Dear President of the National Assembly, thank you very much for your words. Dear representatives of the Government, Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The National Council has sent a law on parental protection and family benefits to the legislative process in order to improve the situation of those parents who opt for reduced working hours for the protection of children. The current regulation provides that parents who have opted for reduced working hours for the purpose of protecting children shall be paid social security contributions to full employment from the proportional part of the minimum wage. As a result of such arrangements, these parents are in a worse position than others, as the state pays them a difference in contributions to the minimum wage and can consequently have a lower pension than they would have had if they were working full-time. On the basis of the law in force, the child’s protection was previously decided by the one of the parents who received a lower salary because he lost less in the calculation of his pension. The bill before us eliminates the difference in the payment of contributions between parents who care for children and their co-workers, since it foresees that parents who care for children will be covered by social security contributions to full employment from the proportionate part of their average monthly gross salary. The bill contributes to better ways of coordinating family and professional life, as it not only gives parents charity but encourages them to spend more time with their children and spend more time actively raising children without being later punished with a lower pension. The family as the basic cell of society is important for the further development and future of the nation and the country is therefore obliged to promote the family environment. Youths need to be encouraged to make a family, and this can be done by showing them an upbuilding view in the family field. This change in the law will make it easier for parents to decide on part - time work and thus spend more time with their children. New Slovenia – we have been Christian Democrats since our establishment as a party, which has given great emphasis to families, family life, young people who create a family and life in general. We all want to ensure that parents are able to maintain their professional and family lives. Child rearing and caring for the immediate are worthy of social respect, and this bill is a step against the stated objective, so we will be happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! We have before us a third consideration of the new Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits, which aims to reduce the difference in social welfare contributions paid to those parents who benefit from the right to shorter working hours. The existing legislation provides that a worker who chooses to work with reduced working hours shall be paid proportionally and that the country shall pay contributions for the missing working hours, as if the worker received a minimum wage. The change that we have before us today introduces the payment of contributions to full work obligation from a basis that will be calculated in a manner such as the calculation of the basis for maternity, paternity and parental compensation, taking into account also the upper and lower pay-out limits. In this way, it is preventable for parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time to have their pension base reduced due to the difference in paid contributions and thus their pension height. Working part - time work because of the parenthood provided by our legislation is a great relief for many families. Often, it takes time for parents to get their family life back on track after their maternity leave. If this option is provided by the State, it is also right to eliminate the unequal situation and the deterioration of the financial situation of those workers who benefit from this right. In the SAB Group, we are pleased to have a broad consensus in support of the State Council proposal, and we will also support the amendment in this consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Secretary of State, distinguished representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! At the end of the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Receipts, we will support the law. We announced the latter at the second reading of the law at the September meeting of the National Assembly, highlighting the disadvantage of demographic trends and insisting on a more ambitious approach to the challenges of demographics, including in the area of family policy. The marriage proposal offers the possibility of a higher pension base and, as a result, pension for those who, as a rule, are women who choose to devote more time to their child in the earliest years. Since the amendment of the law is aimed at eliminating an anomaly that creates a financial distinction between parental benefits rights, in a particular case it is a distinction between the basis for the compensation of maternity, paternity and parental leave compared to the payment of contributions from the absence budget related to part-time work due to parenthood. We offer support for the bill in the Desus Group. The proposed text creates a contribution to facilitating the coordination of professional and family obligations and eliminates the gender pay gap, resulting in post-retirement income. Finally, the urgency of this measure is also recognised in the resolution on family policy, which is addressed to all families by a friendly society. To conclude, however, let me say that we cannot support the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. If this proposal, which will harmonise the level of the basis for the exercise of rights under parental protection, eliminates the inequalities so far in financial terms, it would be reintroduced by the adoption of the proposed amendment. Measures which constitute a system regime, in a given case within the framework of family policy, should, in our view, follow comprehensive strength and equality in the initial position of individual categories of rights and their beneficiaries. As has already been said, the Members of our Group will support the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you, President. Nice greetings to the guests! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! We note that the need for short-term employment is increasing, mainly due to the measures taken by the COVID-19 epidemic, in order to maintain as many jobs as possible. When it comes to the right to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood, we have in mind a special and independent right. Developmental psychology says that it is best for children to develop by the age of six that parents spend as much time as possible with their children. This brings him the most benefits, while at the same time it has a beneficial effect on family life and on better quality of life. It is difficult to coordinate both family and professional obligations in this time of emergency, since it is necessary to organise work well and schedule the day. One of the parents, usually a mother who chooses to work with shorter working hours, has to take a lease to get a lower salary on the pay. As a result, this will also affect the lower pension. On one side of the scale we can give shorter working hours, spend time with the child, and on the other side eight working hours with more money and a higher pension. The proposed amendment considers that the problem of working parents could be improved, and the question is whether this is good and will work in practice. The State should ensure that those parents who work part-time pay social security contributions up to the full employment obligation from the proportionate part of the basis referred to in Article 43 and Article 46(1). The payment of contributions should not be less than the proportional part of the minimum wage. Nor does it tell us that an average of more than 14,000 people on a monthly basis benefit from shorter working hours due to parenthood. Rather, you should provide us with specific information as to how much this right could have benefited them, but it is not. Last year, there were little more than €19 million worth of contributions. I strongly doubt that the funds in the state budget for 2020 and 2021, which amount to approximately 36 million per year, would be sufficient for all parents wishing to benefit from the right to parental protection insurance. In other Member States of the European Union, we see that parents work with shorter working hours to different children's ages. Given the current financial situation, the indebtedness of the State of the Republic of Slovenia is not the appropriate time to adopt the proposed amendments to the law, but in the Slovenian National Party we will not oppose the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mag. Carmen Furman will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal to amend the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits at the last, third stage of the hearing. As has already been said, the proposal for amendments to the law eliminates inappropriate and unfair legislation in order to ensure a higher level of social security for those parents who work part-time for the protection of children. The right of parents to work with shorter working hours and to pay social security contributions is already regulated under the current legislation in Article 50 of this Act. However, the fact is that parents who benefit from this right under the current legislation are in an unequal position compared to those who do not benefit from these rights with regard to the payment of social security contributions to which the State is in the present case. It is stated in the existing regulation that the State pays contributions only from the proportional part of the minimum wage and not from the actual gross wage paid by the parents who benefit from the right. This can have a negative impact on the parent's pension base, since in this case it may be lower than what this parent would have had if he was working full-time. Thus, in terms of the height of the pension base, those parents who benefit from the right to a shorter working time are in a worse position than if they were working full-time. The amendment therefore proposes that parents who are employed for a shorter period of time continue to be paid part of the contributions, but no more than a proportional part of the minimum wage, but that the calculation of this base for the payment of contributions be carried out in the same way as the calculation of the base for the mother, parent and father's compensation, taking into account the upper and lower limits. This compares the amount of paid social security contributions paid to working parents for shorter working hours in order to protect their child with those who do not benefit from these rights. Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that by adopting legislation at that time, which allows all parents today to exercise the right to work with shorter working hours in order to protect their children, we have made an important step towards facilitating the reconciliation of the professional and family life of parents. At the same time, we are convinced that this is certainly not the purpose of this legal provision, so that parents who benefit from this right today will later be punished with a possible lower pension base. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that such inadequate and irregular legislation must also be corrected and therefore we support the proposed amendment of legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Andreja Zabret will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Mr President, Secretary of State and representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! Today, globalisation, the introduction of new technologies, increased pressure on competitiveness and the ageing of the population require changes in the labour market. The impact of the changed labour market situation is also an increase in flexible forms of work, where we can also include part-time work. In Slovenia, young parents who find it increasingly difficult to reconcile family and professional life are available to work with shorter working hours due to parenthood. This is a measure that can be benefited from by one of the parents and receives payment under actual work obligations, and the State provides him with payment of social security contributions up to full liability on the basis of minimum wage under the Minimum Wage Act. This amount of paid contributions, however, has consequences for a person who benefits from shorter working hours due to parenthood at a later age, as it has a negative impact on the pension base of a short-term employee and consequently on his lower pension. With the solution before us today, we will allow parents who benefit from shorter working hours in order to exercise their right to a shorter working time or to ensure payment of a social security contribution up to full work obligations than is calculated as a maternity, paternity or parental compensation. This will compare those employees who benefit from the right to shorter working hours with those who do not benefit from these rights with those who do not benefit from the amount of contributions paid. In the Marjan Šarca Letter, we welcome the proposal for a law, because we believe that workers with shorter working hours due to parenthood under the current regime are truly placed in a worse position by the State's contribution to social security to cover only full obligations from the proportional part of the minimum wage. So it is a poor situation because of parenting or caring for children. These employees finish their work early so that they can take care of their children. However, they receive a lower pension base and a lower pension as a result. This is why we believe that a change to the law on parental protection and family benefits is necessary. The new law that we have on the table today will, of course, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20 October 2020. Since the amendments of the Left Group to Articles 1 and 1a are substantively linked, we will discuss them together. I therefore put to the debate paragraphs 1 and 1a and the two amendments of the Group of Ambassadors of the Left. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Siter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Have a good day again! In my introductory position, I have already set out some parameters regarding what the initial proposal of the proposer is proposing and what solution we propose to the Levica Group in the Member State. However, some basic information needs to be highlighted in order to give them to this proposal and to the law on the way. The fact is that at this point we are living in a time of social uncertainty, social uncertainty, where we are facing a high level of poverty in the country. I think the current number is 268,000 people living below the poverty line. Forty thousand of these are just children, and the numbers are also problematic at the address of the pensioners. Retired women are 65% again in the final phase, and I think that so many retired women live below the poverty line, which is, of course, very sad statistics. I believe that the aim of the proposal is to improve the social picture, improve the social map, at least in this chapter of young families. But it is also true that our amendment follows that purpose and corrects it, so that it will actually live to see its purpose in life. With our amendment, which says that we do not take for the basis of the calculation of contributions the actual sum that a person earned from the title of his work for the basis of the calculation of the contribution, but the average minimum wage. With our amendment at this point, everyone in a socially weak position is at a better position. So those who get a minimum wage from their work, those who don't get it at all, are the weakest. We have a major problem with the demographic picture in Slovenia. We all know that the population is making sure that more and more of us are old and that the influx of young people is not that the curve of fertility is falling. This is an irrefutable statistic that we all agree with. Here comes the question of what kind of family policy we want to adopt or what kind of family climate we want to promote or create as a society. Many times, politics speaks of family policy only from this naturalistic point of view. You have to have more women. If I'm joking, you have to have more fruit. But this is actually just one small and even the least important part of family policy. Family policy is a broader concept. Family policy means, in the first stage, creating circumstances so that young people can even choose a family. I doubt young couples, young families don't decide for new children because they don't like having them, or they don't want them. They decide not to set up a family because they cannot afford it. Since we have less than 10,000 apartments at this point, because we have half of Styria going to Austria, because we have 75% of people in my home Zasavje who have to drive to work in Ljubljana or to Celje, we would not even have time to have children, because these key parameters of family policy, which offer some social embarrassment to family creation, are simply not addressed. And now we're in the situation we're in. Fortunately, young people who simply decide on their children can benefit from some social measures that help them. But it is certainly our task, the task of policy, to create circumstances where young families will find it easier. That's why our amendment. I will not be too complicated for too long, our amendment tells us that even if the starting point of the young family is poor, even if it is the starting point of the minimum wage or even less, let us give at least so much support that we take the average wage as a basis for calculating contributions. In this way, we answer this social question, we avoid the difficulty of calculating these contributions on the basis of wages, which are whatever it is, at any time, so it is appropriate to make a real family policy and put it on a social basis. We're not just talking about nativity, we're actually offering a framework where families can be created. The second thing is the basis for the retirement benefit that comes from this title. I've already talked about poverty among pensioners in the introductions. At this point, I can only repeat words that I am already in my position. It does not make any sense, or it does not make any sense, that inequality in the workplace or poverty on the basis of unfair evaluation of work translates into inequality in parenthood or poverty among pensioners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We have concluded the debate on the amendments to be decided today in the framework of the half-hour vote following the end of the 4th item of the agenda, in accordance with the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the environmental protection law within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Members! I would like to briefly present the amendments to the Environmental Protection Act, which consists of three sets. The largest unit that is changing is the greenhouse gas emission trading system in the Union, the second set is the issue of the producer's extended responsibility and the last content or set is the implementation of the operational monitoring. As I have already mentioned, the most extensive part of the amendment proposal from Article 35 to Article 36 is intended to harmonise the legal regime on greenhouse gas emission trading in accordance with the Union Directive, which was established in 2005, and the Directive was amended in 2018. This will allow you to do business with these coupons even after 31. 12. Until then, this directive must be transposed into our legislation. Without the proposed legal change, therefore, for a new trading period, this legal basis would not have affected our economic operators and would have put them in an inequitable, unequal position vis-à-vis other economic operators in other Member States. There are no major changes in content. This is similar to allowing the trading of coupons, and this legal basis will make it possible to use these funds. This is the only change which is of a larger substantive nature also to cover the indirect costs of greenhouse gas emissions. The proposed amendment will be the basis for the adoption of a regulation that will make this more detailed and lay down the way and conditions for the granting of financial compensation to sectors or sectors due to the costs of greenhouse gas emissions and will then be transferred to electricity prices. The amendment also allows the allocation of funds for a direct contract where it is granted to direct or indirect budgetary users established or authorised by the municipality or by the State of the Republic of Slovenia for the performance of public tasks. In the next set, the producer's extended liability resulted in a transitional period. The entire producer's extended responsibility will enter into force in 2023, and in the meantime we need to settle this issue so that we do not have any problems with the undelivered packaging and other wastes linked to the removal from individual waste management centres. The main purpose of the amendment is to make it clear that manufacturers of products subject to the extended liability of the manufacturer, organisationally and generally, are also financially responsible for the management of all wastes originating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia from products subject to the extended liability of the manufacturer. This means that, not as it is now from 15 tonnes forward, but will pay for all the waste generated and to be disposed of. Manufacturers may also fulfil their obligations in relation to the management of waste generated from products called PRO together with other product manufacturers by empowering the association of product producers or other business companies which, on their behalf and at the expense of those producers, ensure the acquisition and management of all these wastes originating in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This applies mainly to smaller entities. This legal basis is also the basis for the packaging regulation, which will now go into government procedure. The third set, however, provides an opportunity to modify the implementation of the monitoring. Article 101a of the proposed Article 4a provides for the power of the Government to allow, in legally specified cases, a derogation from a non-discriminatory requirement whereby operational monitoring may also be carried out by the operator himself, not only by an authorised person or institution. Where the Government foresees such an exception, the Minister will also set out in the Regulation the requirements concerning the measuring device and the verification of the conformity of the measurements that will ensure the quality of both the measurements performed and the calibration of all the measuring stations and the manner in which this monitoring is carried out. Exceptionally permissible cases where the Government can provide for such an exception are said to be not at all, but to be admissible cases, are aimed in particular at the fact that BAT conclusions, i.e. Best Available Technology adopted at EU level, require more and more parameters per day. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Madam Secretary of State, time is up, slowly [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	monitoring, and this is not possible in the way it is now implemented, with the occasional implementation of monitoring. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space, as its parent working body, which reported in writing to the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mojca Žnidarič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, President. Nice greetings to all present! We are not given a clean environment, but we need to take care of it and preserve it and to adopt and comply with regulations in this area. The Law on Environmental Protection is a statutory law in the field of the environment and establishes measures to protect our environment from any burden. The law lays down fundamental principles in order to ensure that our Slovenia is not only a negotiating green – it is and must remain so. The amendments to the environmental law that we are considering today touch on two important areas in terms of environmental protection: the greenhouse gas emission trading system and waste management. In the area of the trading system, changes are needed in order to transpose the amendments to the European Directive to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments. These changes to the established and functioning trading system do not have a decisive impact. More importantly, there is a substantive change that relates only to the use of funds obtained at the auction of emission vouchers. The amendments to that Directive require Member States to adopt certain financial measures and the amendments in question give a legal basis for this. The second, otherwise smaller and therefore no less important part of the amendments relates to the treatment of waste packaging. In December 2018, we adopted an intervention law in the National Assembly providing a legal basis for the State to cover to a certain extent the costs of removing the accumulated waste packaging from the courtyards of municipal companies. One of the changes was also related to the change in DROE environmental permits in a way that ensured management of all wastes. This amendment was eliminated by the Administrative Court and the waste packaging began to accumulate again. It is clear that the current situation does not contribute to the protection of the environment or to the protection of human health. It was therefore necessary to adopt new measures, as we Members have done under one of the anti-Korona laws. The change that we are considering today represents an intermediate solution between the expiry of anti-Korona measures and the adoption of an integrated solution. If we could have considered the problems mentioned at the outset to be interventional, it is now increasingly evident that they are in the field of waste packaging for systemic deficiencies. In the SMC, we understand that the adoption of the proposed amendments is necessary, but we stress that a renewed system of producer-wide responsibilities must be regulated in accordance with European law by 2023 at the latest. At this point, we appeal to the Minister of the Environment that the field of waste management, in cooperation with all stakeholders, should be fully regulated and taken into account by the proposal for a law prepared by his predecessor, Simon Zajc. In the SMC we will support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! The law that we are considering today was introduced on 3 September following a reduced procedure. In Levica, we did not object to the consideration of the law, and this is an important law on environmental protection, following a reduced procedure, because it seemed to be a technical law, a technical change that merely aligns the content of the environmental law with the rules of the European Union. It should not be discussed until the next month, but the ruling coalition has put the law in motion for unreasonable reasons in a quicker procedure. The reason for such speeding up the law should be the fact that the European directives subject to this law had to be transposed into the legal order by 9. Ten. 2019. So we've been late for a year. Neither in the draft law nor in the request for an urgent meeting do we see that the European Commission should initiate any procedure against Slovenia, because we have not yet transposed these directives into law. The time for a detailed examination of the law was inappropriate less than the rules of procedure for the examination of such material. This is due to the fact that it is not only innocent transpositions of European directives but also to lower environmental standards. The law introduces the possibility that, following a new operational monitoring of devices with an environmental authorisation, persons who are not registered in the operational monitoring records will also be required to comply with strict legal conditions for entry into this record. This means a derogation from the regime so far when all measurements have to be carried out by an authorised measuring operator specified in the Regulation referred to in Article 17 of the Environmental Protection Act. We believe that waste water is the solution to BAT conclusions on waste water and gas treatment and management in the chemical industry, waste management and production of cellulose and paper and emissions of substances into the water, and that some parameters need to ensure that they are measured daily or weekly. The argument is that in practice some emission measurements were difficult to implement. The solution is that legislation adapts to practice, and not vice versa, so as to ensure that practice adapts to legislation. The law allows for exceptions to permanent measurements of the state of the environment, and it is not clear what is meant here at all. The explanation of Article 4 in which this is regulated does not explain this. It is obvious, however, that the measurements referred to in the second paragraph of Article 1 101 of the Environmental Protection Act, which states that operational monitoring also includes monitoring of the state of the environment if the driver of the environmental burden with his missions directly causes a change in the environment. This provision shall not be implemented in practice unless the environmental authorisation of such measurements is expressly required. The obligation to determine this in the environmental authorisation has disappeared from the Regulation on Emissions of Substances to Air from Real Estate Sources of Pollution. What we should do is, in practice, revive this decision under the Regulation, because for many appliances that cause emissions to air, it is also necessary to measure emissions into the environment, to monitor the state of the environment in which the population can be directly affected. If this recovery occurs, the proposed regulation of Article 4 will allow the operator to measure his own discharges and this will be able to adjust the results in a way that will be beneficial to him. All these suspicious changes, and even the reasons why such changes are necessary in the draft law, are not explained, nor are they explained by the Minister for the Environment and Space in the examination of the law on the home labour body. We are therefore in favour of the position in Levica that the country should monitor emissions more closely from installations that are burdening the environment. The results of the measurements should be made publicly available and published in real time. It is only in this way that residents and residents can create a clear picture of the state of the environment in which they live and of the plants that burden this environment with toxic emissions for profit. Thus, residents and residents must order and pay for environmental measurements. The solution proposed by this law goes in our view in the opposite direction and, by deregulation, makes it possible for more machines to operate devices with measurement results. That is why we will not support the proposal of the law in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, Dr. Metka Gorišek, distinguished colleague and colleague! Of course, we are looking at the amendment of the law on environmental protection by Members of New Slovenia through the prism of our basic programme. The programme of New Slovenia is carried out with environmental concern, since environmental protection, nature protection, creation protection is one of the important units of Christian democracy. The reason for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act is to remedy infringements of European Union law relating to the system of greenhouse gas emission trading or to harmonise the legislation with the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2018. The Ministry of Environment and Space predicts what we welcome, including the amendment of Article 36 of the Regulation on the management of packaging and packaging waste in a way that will no longer be an exception to producers with an annual amount of waste packaging of up to 15 tonnes. At the level of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council Directive on waste introduced the extended responsibility of the manufacturer. Such systems aim to reduce waste, promote reuse and recycling. The increased responsibility of producers shifts the burden of ensuring proper management of waste from local communities and taxpayers to producers. The Directive also requires manufacturers and organisations to provide continuous waste management services throughout the year, even if their objectives have already been achieved. Nor should these services be limited in terms of the geographical coverage of these products and materials covered in areas where waste collection and management are most profitable. The draft law also addressed the problem of the excess waste packaging resulting from the Constitutional Court’s judgment, which decided that the company with the waste packaging was only obliged to take over the amount of waste packaging that was placed on the market by the undertakings with which the company had entered into a contract. The proposal by the Ministry of Environment and Space takes into account the polluter principle of wages. We welcome this and support it. It promotes competitiveness and the possibility of treating waste as raw materials and, last but not least, encourages trends in waste management based on data analysis. In order to improve the quality of the environment, it is essential to regulate the area of waste. We support projects that will already have, in their design, the minimization of waste and packaging produced and the expected bulk of their recycling. One of the foundations of environmental protection in New Slovenia is that the environment must be protected and preserved for generations that come after us and for the future. Nature is given to man to manage, so we respect, protect and take measures to clean the environment and mitigate climate change. Members of New Slovenia will unanimously support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Master Andrej Reich will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! Today we have, at the request of the SDS Group, an urgent procedure on the table of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which was scheduled for consideration in November, which is within a month. The bloody objective of the bill is to harmonise legislation with the European Directive, to strengthen cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments with the rules of the European Union governing greenhouse gas emission trading. The emissions trading system was set up in order to achieve the emission reduction obligation in a cost-effective manner. It is true that the deadline for the transposition of European legislation into Slovenia was last year, but matter is certainly not so simple that it can be examined and adopted consistently within a good month. Environmental change, which is highly tantamount to high levels of action at European Union level, should also be addressed in Slovenia with the highest degree of expertise. The Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system does not change. However, the coverage of indirect costs of greenhouse gas emissions from the Climate Fund is changing. The law establishes a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation that will specify in more detail the way and conditions for the establishment of financial compensation for sectors or sectors exposed to the risk of carbon leakage due to indirect costs arising from the costs of greenhouse gas emissions and transferred to whole electricity. In the SAB we note that the Slovenian economy and jobs are based on energy-intensive industries and production, which depend on many jobs, compared with our most important economic partners in the countries of Central Europe. The plans for its restructuring are not prepared, the financial consequences, in fact the effects, environmental and economic, are not presented. The explanation of the law even states that there will be no financial consequences, even though it establishes a legal basis for the transfer of final costs. It will also establish, in accordance with the European Union Directive and at the initiative of the economy, a legal basis for the sub-legislative arrangements for the implementation of rapid tests in the case of the required daily operating monitoring. In the SAB party, we point out that in Slovenia there is a lack of confidence in the public that the originator itself is carrying out any monitoring, even though in practice this represents the only technical and life-form way of carrying out the measurements. Involvement, awareness and possibilities of the presence of an interested party, in fact affected, civil society is not envisaged in the article, nor is the content of monitoring and report. The absence of the latter can only deepen and strengthen the public’s mistrust. In addition to the proposal for amendments mainly related to the elimination of infringements of European Union law, it also lays the groundwork for producer obligations to manage and finance waste management from products from which the producer is subject to extended liability. The Act on Intervention Measures to combat the COVID-19 epidemic and to mitigate the consequences for citizens and the economy has adopted a measure against the continuation of the accumulation of waste packaging. The estimated value of the measures provided for in this Act represents the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian economy for the period up to 31. 5. EUR 7.7 million. By means of a provisional measure, the State was in a position to resolve the situation. In the SAB we therefore advocate a total ban on the use of plastic bags. Such a measure would have immediate effects. In the SAB Group, we believe that all necessary legislation must be transposed into the Slovenian legal order in a timely manner, and also in real time, legislation that responds to the responses of society and the economy. In doing so, we stress that this needs to be done in a way that strengthens and strengthens public confidence in all institutions. In the SAB proposal, we will not oppose the amendment of the law. We stress, however, that the responsibility of the Government is that the proposed and obviously adopted measures will achieve their purpose. Especially in the light of the tightening and adoption of daily restrictions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Ivan Hršak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, after a reduced legislative procedure, we are considering the amendment to the Environmental Protection Act, which concerns three key areas. Firstly, changes in the area of trading in emission coupons. Secondly, to regulate the field of waste management of products covered by the producer's extended liability. Thirdly, changes relating to operational monitoring. The proposal for a novelty thus foresees changes in the area of trading in emission allowances in the first part. The proposed changes do not change the Union's greenhouse gas emission allowance trading system, which has been in operation since 2005, but are largely necessary to comply with EU rules. The European emissions trading system, a type of permit for greenhouse emissions, ensures that polluters pay for the damage they do to others, and the design is to ensure fewer releases and promote a shift towards cleaner energy. Since the trading period is ending this year, an appropriate legal basis should be adopted as soon as possible for the new period in order for Slovenian entities to be eligible for emission vouchers. This will only provide a legal basis for the operation of the system after 31 December 2020. The legislation under consideration also regulates the area of waste packaging management, where we have faced pressing problems in the past. The novelty adopted will be the basis for the adoption of a regulation extending the obligation to pay a levy on the handling of packaging waste to all those placing packaging on the market. Thus, it will no longer be the sole cost of those who place on the market more than 15 tonnes of packaging annually than has been the case so far. By the end of this year, exports will be covered by the State from the budget and the Regulation will enter into force on 1 January 2021. The aim of the law is to prevent the accumulation of waste packaging in public service providers. More broadly, we are also pursuing the goal of reducing waste in general and encouraging producers to find more environmentally friendly solutions. In this way, we will solve some of the problems with the waste packaging at its source. However, the third set of amendments concerns operational monitoring. Since the legislation in force in this area is too restrictive, the Government will exceptionally be able to allow monitoring to be carried out by non-authorised entities. In practice, the current regime has proved difficult to implement and therefore, at the initiative of the economy, the legal basis for sub-legislative regulation, the implementation of rapid tests in the case of the required daily monitoring is established. This applies to continuous monitoring, which operators entered in the records of authorised operators cannot carry out in practice because they do not have sufficient capacity or equipment to do so. In the Desus Group, we favor solutions that contribute to the protection of the environment. We are also positive about legislative changes when it is obvious that some of the provisions in practice do not have the desired effects. Therefore, we will support the amendment of the Environmental Protection Act, which currently addresses only the most urgent measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties will be presented by the Victory of the Jelinčič Trimeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	It is a technical law after a reduced procedure, but it has 75 pages. So I think it would be more reasonable to consider next month at the next meeting, but not now, because the matter is so complex and so important that we should have more time to discuss. What if we go in order? With regard to CO2 emissions, it is essentially at European level for some kind of business, for trade, for whom more will be given, for who will buy more and so on. This cannot be basically good for the protection of the natural environment. But that's the way it is. This is what Europe requires and, of course, we must take this into account. The second is in relation to landfills of waste if I take the next complex that is dealt with by the law. I don't know why we don't have waste incinerators in Slovenia. In the middle of Vienna, there are three incinerators operating in the city, and there is no half around. The energy generated there is used to support the population within the city of Vienna and the matter works as it must. I know we've had some attempts to do this before, but it's all stalled and stopped getting certain funding in our own pockets. And then it happens to us that every now and then, every once in a while, there's a dump of waste going on and on fire. Of course, no one's guilty. If we just take the worst shit that ever happened on Supreme, that's Kemis. What happened? It wasn't anybody's fault. And, as usual, in Slovenia, no one is to blame if it is from a real nest. That's what's wrong. As far as monitoring is concerned, I think it makes sense that monitoring is being carried out, even in accordance with European law, even more. After all, this was regulated in the former Yugoslavia better than it is today, and better than it is regulated at the level of European law. Here too, it should be defined, strictly defined, which NGOs can deal with. They must have one professional base, a professional environment and professional staff, not to gather three who want to earn and blackmail certain economic operators, and until they pay them a bribe, they will not leave any project ahead. Well, let's see what the current inspectorate is doing. He's not doing anything. If we look at how many watercourses have been destroyed, how many fish, how many tons of fish have died, and the population in the water, no one has been harmed. In the end, they say we don't know who did it. How do we not know if it's one factory at the start of the creek, but now we don't know who did it? There is much more to be done here and more pressure is needed. Or if we look, especially if we take Ljubljana, the most beautiful trees are cut down. There was a beautiful topola, a kind of populism communis, healthy, but, of course, our sheriff Jankovic gave it to him. I don't know why. Then there was a beautiful beech on the Tržaška road, a fagus silvatica, over a hundred years old. And they also knocked it down to make some more concrete and so on. No one thinks that it is necessary to fertilize Slovenia. Every tree that is planted does more than European rules and than the European shit that we get every day on the table and we need to confirm it because of Brussels' demands. It's common sense that this matter should be handled. We will not oppose the law, for it is better than nothing, but this marriage should be reconsidered, corrected by the foolishness in it. Even though it's nonsense coming from Europe. We must be aware that Slovenia was once cleaner, healthier, in a better environment than we are today. But here you have to press on certain people who abuse everything for their own private interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The positions of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Bojan Podkrodšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you, Madam Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Environmental Protection Act, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure, is intended to harmonise the legislative regulation with the EU Directive, and the proposed amendments do not change the system of greenhouse gas emission trading in the EU, but allow them to continue after 31. 12. 2020, when the established trading system expires. The proposal also includes an amendment to Article 20 in force, the main purpose of which is to make it clear that manufacturers of products covered by the producer's extended liability are also, in an organisational and, as a rule, financially responsible for the management of all waste generated in the territory of Slovenia from products for which the larger producer's extended liability is greater. As a third novelty, the amendment of Article 101a, which gives the Government the power to allow, in certain cases, a derogation from a requirement under which operational monitoring may only be carried out by a person who is entered into the records of the implementation of the monitoring. The proposed amendments take into account that the conclusions adopted by the EU require, for an ever-increasing number of parameters, the continuous implementation of emission monitoring, which in practice is no longer possible in the manner envisaged so far. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are aware that if temporary solutions with accompanying rules are not adopted, we would have taken 1. 1. 2021 again faced the problems we have witnessed in the past. This will give the law to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group a unanimous support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, will be presented by Robert Pavšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	The Law on Environmental Protection introduces a partially amended Directive of the European Union to strengthen cost-effective reduction of emissions and low-carbon investments into Slovenia's legal order. The Directive lays down obligations for greenhouse gas emitters that they meet in the form of trading in emission vouchers. The funds derived from vouchers will be used deliberately to reduce emissions through measures to promote efficient energy use and measures to improve air quality in degraded areas. The system of emission vouchers is based on the polluter pays principle. This is an important instrument to pursue the objective of carbon neutrality. It further refers to the proposed novelty on waste management. The bill introduces a fairer waste management system based on the payment of packaging, which is in accordance with the applicable legislation and is paid by the debtors with more than 15 tonnes of annual waste packaging. The proposed law prevents the repetition of the 2018 scenario when waste management companies did not dispose of waste for which no packaging was paid. So far, the amendment of this law is fine. A week or so ago, we were able to monitor an interesting research on trust in the media. Although the subject is not directly related to this, it is symptomatic. People don't trust politicians, and what's even more dangerous is the profession. We live in the 21st century, in a time of digitisation, access to data in real time. Despite the inconspicuous development of technology, environmental measurements are still being carried out and the results are being published as processed and selected. Again, we are in the face of the fact that the proposed amendment to the law is subject to controversial provisions, as the proposed amendments change the conditions for the implementation of environmental monitoring. A problematic solution in the proposed law is that it is possible for operational monitoring and management of waste water and gas treatment in the chemical industry and waste management to be carried out by persons not included in the records of authorised monitoring operators. At a time which is in one way or another marked by a lack of confidence in the system environmental control mechanisms, such intention is highly controversial, as it could consequently allow for, say, Salonit Anhovo or Cinkarna Celje or T6 to carry out different monitoring with the possibility of affecting the results. In the letter of Marjan Šarca, we believe that such mistrust is essential to be addressed with all responsibility and to ensure such an environmental control system that will restore confidence to people. It would therefore be expected that monitoring companies are independent of the involvement of local stakeholders in the measurement process and that the results are made public. It is also essential to make it possible for measuring operators to access pollutants unannounced. Any other approach will only increase the degree of mistrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The positions of the Group of Social Democrats will be moved by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you, Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues! The proposed amendments to the law introduced by the Government to the legislative procedure are aimed at transposing the requirements of the Directive of the European Union, addressing the shortcomings of the system in the field of packaging waste and the way in which operational monitoring is carried out. The main objectives of amending the law are to ensure a clear, unambiguous legislative framework in the field of product waste management and to ensure and enforce operational monitoring. In the Group of Social Democrats, we welcome the solutions that address the shortcomings of the waste packaging system and remain detained in the proposed solutions in the area of operational monitoring. We understand the concerns and arguments behind the recent changes in the implementation of operational monitoring, but we cannot overlook the recent developments in the environment and climate, which clearly tell us that monitoring is still important in ensuring a healthy environment. In order to allow the Government, in certain cases, to make an exception to the required performance of operational monitoring activities, through an authorised operator and on the basis of the conditions it would have prescribed. The solution, which provides for exceptions to the implementation of monitoring, has raised several questions in our parliamentary group, namely, who will benefit from such exceptions and why and what these conditions will be prescribed by the Government. It has proved to be a number of times that this government does not exactly listen to the environment and environmental issues, so in the Group of Social Democrats, we remain detained for solutions that would allow exceptions. Once again, we are asked why laws that may be controversial and which would require more time to discuss, deal with and confront opinions are forced into marriage proposals. Members of the Social Democrats welcome some solutions, and others, as has already been said, remain reserved and skeptical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. I hereby end this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 12 noon. Thank you very much. (The sitting was suspended at 11.22 p.m. and resumed at 12 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue our adjourned meeting of the National Assembly. Before we proceed to the voting process, I would like to inform you that the National Assembly will vote in accordance with the following order: 6, 5, 4, 7, 8, 16 and 1 of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue to end the 6th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled by 20. Ten. 2020. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 8. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 2. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendment. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the National Assembly, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it opposes more than a third of the Members and Members present. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 77 votes against 3. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that in the second reading, the National Assembly adopted the amendment to Article 8 of the amended bill. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 78 votes against 3. [[The vote was 78.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue to end the 5th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Parental Protection and Family Benefits in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2020, published on the e-club. We decide on the amendment of the Left Party to Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 1a becomes irrelevant, since the amendments are substantively linked. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, Comrade Primož Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that. The basic postulate of our amendment stands next. We must not allow inequality in work valuation or wage inequality to be translated into inequality in parental protection or through the amount of contributions paid among pensioners. Parenthood is parenthood, regardless of social circumstances, and the task of the State is to shape family policies in a way that is conducive to everyone. Our amendment follows that very purpose. It helps workers, parents, those who spend months on a minimum wage to help self-employed, unemployed, or those who count days to the next income. Why? The basis for the calculation of the social security contribution for users does not take into account the minimum wage as applied in the current legislation, as the basis does not therefore take the actual salary as proposed by the proposer of this Act, but rather takes the average monthly gross salary as calculated by the Statistical Office for the previous year. In fact, this proposal or this amendment is following the development of some family policies that must be social in particular. We talk too much about family policy, which is only naturalistic, but we forget that family policy must be basically social, must be labour, must be housing, must be educational, that is, social. That is how we help all those who, in the final stage, for parenting also because of the current social situation, low wages or lack of income, would not have decided at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 45. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment by the Left Group to Article 1 has not been adopted, the amendment to Article 1a becomes irrelevant. We're done voting on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second or third reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Environmental Protection in the framework of the shorter procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill, that is to decide on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda, this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Effective Use of Energy under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, which will be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2020. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 78. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 96. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 7. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. Since in the second reading amendments were adopted to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the motion for a bill in the introductory explanation proposed that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, should carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 74 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 78 and 96 of the amended law. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I ask qualified applicants whether they intend to table amendments to these articles. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the second-reading meeting of the parent body or the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 77 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 77.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tolling Act under the ordinary procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, 74 votes in favour and none in favour. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for the election of a Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. On 6 October 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly to elect Dr. Anjet Erbežnik as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	Dear President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! On 14 July this year, the term of office of the Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia expired. In the first process of selecting possible candidates for this function, the proposed candidate did not receive a sufficient number of MEPs and MPs of the National Assembly, and the President of the Republic repeated the call. At the re-examination of proposals for possible candidates, the President of the Republic received five nominations. After the talks, the evaluation of the candidates and the consultation of the leaders of the parliamentary groups, the President of the Republic decided to propose to the National Assembly for the Judge of the Constitutional Court Dr. Anjet Erbežnik, Doctor of Legal Sciences. Since 2010, Dr Erbežnik has been working as a legal adviser to the Committee on Justice, Home Affairs and Fundamental Freedoms of the European Parliament and is also an extraordinary professor at the European Faculty of Law in Nova Gorica. After graduating from the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, he mastered at the European Institute of Public Administration in Luxembourg, successfully defending his master's degree at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana and finishing his doctoral studies at the European Faculty of Law in Novi Gorica. As an exceptional professor at the European Law Faculty, he is the holder of criminal law, criminal procedural law, constitutional international criminal law and economic criminal law. He's also head of the Department of Criminal Law. As legal adviser to this committee, the European Parliament is preparing extensive and professional analyses on a range of legal issues and the protection of fundamental rights. He was an expert at Berkeley University in California. He actively masters English, German, French and Croatian. He is the author of numerous articles of publications and is an active participant in professional symposiums and deals in particular with issues relating to the protection and enforcement of human rights, mutual recognition in European Union law, cross-border health services and the like. He is also the co-author of the important textbook Kazen Process Law of the Republic of Slovenia. Dr. Ange Erbežnik introduced himself to the Presidential Palace at a public presentation. In doing so, he gave an in-depth presentation of his view of the mission of the Constitutional Judge. He will strive for the protection of human rights, legality and constitutionality, as the Constitutional Court must be particularly sensitive to the arguments of those who express concerns about human rights in their cases. Above all, in his view, it is necessary to understand the state of human rights today in the world and to be aware of the challenges posed by current issues, the relationship between technology and human rights. With his excellent knowledge of European Union law, he will also be able to make an important contribution to the successful work of the Constitutional Court in this area, as he believes European law is something that can also be co-created by the constitutional judiciary in national countries. In a public presentation, Dr. Erbežnik replied in a written explanation to some of the records and denied some incorrect claims that appeared in public at his candidacy. The President of the Committee of the European Parliament for Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr Juan Fernando Lopez Aguilar, or Professor of Constitutional Law and the former Minister of Justice of the Kingdom of Spain, and Dr Boštjan M. Zupančič, former Judge of the Constitutional Court and former Judge of the European Court of Human Rights, propose candidates for the post of Judge of the Constitutional Court of Slovenia. On the basis of consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, it can be reasonably concluded that the applicant has the necessary support for the appointment. With all the above, Dr. Ange Erbežnik can be expected to carry out his work with the necessary professional and personal integrity, knowingly and responsibly, if appointed. Therefore, the President of the Republic proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint him as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We live in a time that threatens the fundamental human rights for which we have fought for decades and at a time when people's trust in the right state is strongly established. It is therefore more important today than ever before that these rights are protected by an effective, independent and very strong constitutional judiciary. In the opinion of the SAB, such a judiciary is provided by constitutional judges who, in addition to the highest level of professional and personal integrity, are also characterized by an exceptional sense of human rights. We have repeatedly stressed in the SAB that we do not favour clearly politically-professed candidates and that we expect the most eminent lawyers with rich career and life experiences in the post of Constitutional Judge. I'm afraid we didn't recognize these qualities in Dr. Erbežnik. The candidate's experience doesn't convince us. We view them as quite one-sided, because they are primarily related to his work in the European Parliament, where he started as a linguist lawyer and then continued as an expert in criminal law. This specialisation, specialisation in criminal law, is already strongly represented in the existing Constitutional Court. The candidate also devotes much to research and publicity and is also a lecturer. We also note that even the age of the candidate is not in favour of our advocacy for the most balanced composition of constitutional judges, in which very young judges are already dominant. These judges are only halfway their career path and far from its conclusion, so their continued career ambitions raise the issue of their complete impartiality, which is the essence of the personal integrity of the highest representative of the judiciary. We also have doubts about the impartiality of the candidate because of the fact that he is clearly eloquent to a certain political option. This is a very bad trip for every constitutional judge. The main supporter and chief proponent of his candidacy is Dr. Boštjan M. Zupančič, a former Slovenian judge at the European Court of Human Rights, who has recently demonstrated and demonstrated with his racist, chauvinistic and nationalistic statements through social media that he does not overcome the personality integrity that we legitimately expect from one whose duty is to protect fundamental human rights and freedoms. Such an ideology shall no longer be repeated in the case of an individual Constitutional Judge. Some also point out that Dr. Erbežnik is marked by a rather conflicting nature that is incompatible with the personality integrity expected by the Constitutional Judge. The candidate has repeatedly applied for the highest functions – the judiciary and others, including at the level of the European Union. He reacted quite aggressively to the rejections by means of constitutional complaints, by challenging proceedings and by discrediting decision-makers also through the media. The task of the Constitutional Court is not to create conflicts and separate, but to seek compromises and common denominators in decision-making. The compromise can be more uniform and reduces the number of separate opinions, which also reduce citizens' confidence in constitutional decisions. The candidate has also entered into conflicts with the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana as his employers with the European Parliament and it appears that he is in conflict with all those who disagree with him or think a little differently. At the Alenka Bratušek Party, we did not recognize the quality of the Supreme Constitutional Judge, so we do not support the candidate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Four months ago, the National Assembly had the opportunity to elect a lawyer to serve as a Constitutional Judge, awarded outstanding human rights and welfare for the weakest in our society. Despite the publicly expressed support of most of Dr Teršek's parliamentary groups, he unfortunately did not receive a sufficient number of votes. Today we have a new name, a new candidate, Dr. Erbežnik. Although the President of the Republic could propose a candidate specialising in the area that the Constitutional Court really needs today, he has given priority to political mathematics or the success of his proposal, not to the needs or knowledge that the Constitutional Court needs. Is it right to focus on the number of votes in such an important function? Our answer is certainly not. It all too often happens that the certainty of the election overcomes the professional diversity of the Constitutional Court, which is essential for its quality work, to ignore the whole view of avoiding the search for the right combination of knowledge and career paths on the one hand and youthful enthusiasm and mature experience on the other. Unfortunately, however, in Slovenia everything ends on the right and left, on divisions, in political and secular balance. That's the case with the Constitutional Court. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we are convinced that such divisions harm the country and the people. In a specific case, too, this time there will be an overriding need for the Constitutional Court, which President Rajko Knez has consistently pointed out. This has repeatedly expressed the hope that the policy will also take into account the legal area in which the elected candidate is particularly sublime and will work. In other words, it will fill, let us say, a sectoral void created by the departure of one of the Constitutional Judges. It is social and labour law, i.e. areas that will be retested in the coming months. In particular, we ask ourselves in the List of Marjan Šarc whether it is appropriate to appoint another criminal law expert as a Constitutional Judge. Let it not be understood as a criticism to the esteemed Dr. Erbežnik. He applied for the invitation and the Janez Janša coalition gave him a green light in agreement with the President of the Republic. Criticism is aimed at part of a policy that does not want to see a wider picture of others succeeding in understanding how important it is that we have legal cream, experts in different fields in the Constitutional Court. All of this would further enhance the quality of the court and restore people's hope for constitutional principles and values. Criticism goes to all of us, who once and for all agree to this political mathematics, and goes to the President of the Republic, who should show his authority in appointments, to have the courage, the following legal diversity of the Constitutional Court, to insist on the candidate they need in court or Beethoven. Such a mature policy would be applied to all appointments. On the contrary, in all this political struggle, we have overlooked that it is part of the policy that, by its conduct and through the various discretions of the candidates, it has evaluated independent institutions and the highest positions of state, thereby causing immense harm to the state, society and individuals. This is also the reason why fewer and fewer top experts choose to run for various functions. It's been too long, dear colleagues, too long. You always do the same things over and over again and expect different results. Somebody said it was crazy. And I say that this is also the path to the full evaluation of the institutions and thus of the country. Today, some will worship this madness again. We're not taking part in this in the list of Marjan Šarcs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Ambassador of the Group of the Left.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Your Honor! The appointment of Constitutional Judges is an extremely important competence of the National Assembly and, as such, is in great danger of being subjected to party bartering, political bargaining and the conclusion of rotten compromises. The appointment of constitutional judges is an even more important issue at a time when the tendency to restrict or even violate human rights is growing, according to authoritarianism. This year we are witnessing tectonic changes in everyday life in social and economic life. The COPID-19 pandemic has cut into each and every one of us's lives. States are forced to take restrictive measures which affect many constitutional freedoms. While some measures are necessary to halt the spread of the pandemic, there are also many actions that need to be put under constitutional review. Many current governments, including the current Slovenian, are now using the pandemic to strengthen their political option in all social systems. They are also helped by exceptional circumstances, as democratic rights are also limited, such as the right to assembly in a public place, the right to protest, and, last but not least, the right to unification. But before the pandemic, constitutional rights were not self-evident. We lived at a time when, under the cover of excessive exposure with changed security conditions, many controversial solutions were adopted. At a time when, with the demands of the right hand, the central governments are also abjectly lowering the standards of permissible human rights interventions, we are here, and at a time when the right to privacy, the prohibition of discrimination and human dignity are no longer fully self-evident. If we look only over the last few years, we can see a cutting wire at the border, and soldiers have acquired or exercised police powers. Police officers are using stunners, mass controls and the possibility of using military equipment are between us. At the same time, the state cannot provide health care, not build new hospitals, not build health homes, or homes for the elderly. While nearly 280,000 people are below the poverty line, rising social transfers and the lowest wages are more than self-evident. Due to a few 100 Euros of debt, a man in Slovenia may lose his roof over his head. All of this merely indicates the direction in which we are moving, the direction in which the final station does not have room for social justice, for quality and all available public health and education, in order to respect consistently the prohibition of discrimination and to ensure equal opportunities for all, there is no room for it. Because of all the said station, the Constitutional Court is even more important than it has been so far. It is the highest authority of the judiciary, an institution that is the last defender of constitutional rights and freedoms, which, as it is said, is increasingly being beaten. We're talking about an institution whose primary weapon is authority. The authority, however, can only be ensured to the Constitutional Court by electing the best legal experts for judges, whose suitability is based on past work, independence and principle, and not on political pedigree. The position of the candidate that the Constitutional Court should act as a court of law is interesting, but in the context of the attack by the current executive, the current government, it is also dangerous for the judiciary. It seems that the candidate, by reducing the problem of the alleged casovo operation of the judiciary, agrees with the claims of the Slovenian right that our judiciary is some kind of criminal offence, which, due to underground influence circles, condemns political opponents. We are not saying that this is the candidate's position, but that his concept fits well with this kind of discourse. The candidate for the problem is going to the wrong end. The Court shall act within the framework of the current legal order. The current legal order is established to regulate existing social relations. The existing social relations in capitalism, however, are the relations of conflict, among which is the most important conflict between work and capital, which manifests itself every day in the exploitation of man by man, a worker in Slovenia. If the Constitutional Court is aware of this, it will also distinguish the role of the Constitution as the highest legal act that protects even weaker in these relations, especially workers against employers. He will also understand that not only the human rights of an individual but also the rights of the community, such as the right to preserve the environment, the right to health care and, last but not least, the right to work, are important. In Slovenia, we would really need a strong candidate for a constitutional judge who in these difficult times would defend the foundations of democratic regulation and fundamental human rights, while at the same time spreading constitutional rights where fundamental rights are most often violated, to jobs, economic organisations, among poor pensioners, sick and otherwise socially marginalized. Unfortunately, today we are deciding on a candidate, Anžet Erbežnik, who does not show these qualities. We can recognize certain legal knowledge, of course, but we do not see in it a man who would contribute to a higher quality of the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We cannot judge from his references the necessary authority and determination required in these times of crisis and unusual times, when it is necessary to decide both on individual human rights and on the protection of society and all of us. We don't support both Angeta Erbežnik and the candidate in Levika. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. The vote on the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court will be taken together with the vote on point 16b, immediately following the presentation of the positions of the members of the groups at point 16b of the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for the appointment of a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije, Vice-Governor. On 6 October 2020, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor, proposed to the National Assembly that the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, be appointed by Dr Arjana Brezigar Masten. I give the floor to the Secretary-General of the Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs Natashi Kovac, for an additional explanation of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u81	Dear Members and Members! After the retreat and early release of the mags. Bosniak, Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, issued a public call this June for proposals by potential candidates for this city. At the end of the call in September, the President received ten proposals for possible candidates. They were held as usual with all candidates and candidates. The President judged the nominations and consulted the heads of the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. On this basis, he decided to propose to the National Assembly of Dr Arjano Brezigar Masten, a member of the Council of Banka Slovenije, Vice-Governor, a doctorate in economic sciences, namely the Director of the Analytical Research Department at Banka Slovenije and the associate professor of economics at the Faculty of Mathematics, Science and Information Technology of the University of Primorska. Proposers and supporters of her candidacy – Prof. Mojmir Mrak, Prof. Matej Avbelj, Rector of the New University, Prof. Klavdija Kutnar, Rector of the University of Primorska – have written, inter alia, that the candidate combines the necessary knowledge of macroeconomics and monetary economies at a high academic level and practical experience in economic policy management. All of this is, inter alia, in addition to the complexity, activities and accompanying analyses in the Eurosystem, extremely important for the successful performance of the function of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, for the representation of the Bank of Slovenia in the bodies of the European Central Bank. The candidate's path is linked to macroeconomics and finance. From these two areas she also doctored at the University of Siena. With academic references, Dr. Adriana Brezigar Masten also has significant experience in the field of economic policy management. She started her career at the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, where she established and also led the Department of Macroeconomic Modelling. The candidate has experience with both finance and banking. In recent years, as the director of the Bank of Slovenia’s Analytical Research Department, as one of its key departments, she has been able to upgrade and improve the department in the direction of better quality analysis, strengthening monetary policy analysis and development infrastructure, which enables Banka Slovenije to participate actively within the European Central Bank. It also actively participates in the work of certain committees of the European Central Bank. She also presented her rich knowledge and experience relevant to the successful work of the proposed function at a public presentation. In Banka Slovenije he sees an important news of the country with other members of the euro area, where Slovenia can exercise interests in the area of common monetary policy and international finance. It also believes that the Bank of Slovenia is facing the important challenges of today and, together with them, the Bank of Slovenia. Their resolution will require, inter alia, an effective pooling of highly professional academic knowledge and practical experience, as well as successful cooperation with the euro area Member States. At the presentation, Dr. Brezigar Mastenova explained and also answered some of the questions raised in public at the time of her candidacy. On the basis of consultations with the heads of the parliamentary groups, it can be concluded that the candidate also has the necessary support for the appointment. On a reasoned basis, we can expect Dr. Adriana Brezigar Masten to perform an expert, responsible and appropriate function for which she is running, so the President of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to appoint her as a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The proposal was addressed as the parent working body by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Primož Siter will present the position of the leftist Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much, President. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Adriana Brezigar Masten offers neither a critical reflection of the Bank of Slovenia's past controversial policies nor any ideas for their change. The Bank of Slovenia’s research and research centre, which has been run since 2017, has turned from one of the most prominent macroeconomic departments in the country to a family company of Masten married couples, where family and friendly relationships count more than professional competences. We have not received from the candidate a clear and ambiguous definition for the supervision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia over the Bank of Slovenia, which is the water on the mill to the conspiracy practices of this institution, which has been preventing any revision of the disputed resolution of the bank hole, which has cost us 4 billion and a half for seven years. Following the testimony of the economist and 30 years of associate of the Analytical Research Centre Frančko Drenovac, there was a total degradation of this centre in 2013. At that time, the husband of candidate Igor Masten and his two friends received excellent paid fifth-rate jobs in fictitious jobs, while Banka Slovenije employees only rarely saw them. The secretary had to send them a pay notice by mail to their home. When Igor Masten ran for vice-governor in 2016, he and his friends turned aside from his fifth job out of caution. In 2017, Jazbec hired his wife, the current candidate for Vice-Governor Adriano Brezigar Masten, as director of the Centre. Drenovac points out that the main economists of the centres under her mandate were mass refugees abroad, and she filled the vacancies mostly by hiring her and her husband's Ljubljana and Koper diplomats, irrespective of their competence. People who run Banka Slovenije's Analytical Research Centre on the basis of grotesque family-friendly business relations simply cannot be trusted to perform the function of vice-governance. In Levica, we believe that the Bank of Slovenia is responsible for its operations to its own citizens and to the supervisory and democratic institutions of the Republic of Slovenia, but not to the unelected bureaucrats in Brussels and Frankfurt, and that the Bank of Slovenia must be subject to the same standards, the same laws and regulations as those applicable to all other institutions of state-owned public law. Therefore, for years we have also advocated a tighter supervision of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia over the Bank of Slovenia. In interviews with the vice-governance candidate, which we conducted in the Levica Group, Brezigar Masten was the only candidate who did not clearly and unequivocally advocate the supervision of the domestic Court of Auditors over the Bank of Slovenia. It argued that the role of supervision of the central bank could also be exercised by the European Court of Auditors. According to this logic of the Slovenian Court of Auditors we do not need at all because we have the European Court of Auditors. We don't even need a Slovenian Parliament because we have a European Parliament. We don't need the Bank of Slovenia either, because we have the European Central Bank in Frankfurt. Such a candidate's attitude is particularly unacceptable in the light of the fact that the Bank of Slovenia behaves as an untouchable country in a country that is constantly resisting the audits of the domestic control and prosecution authorities and thereby oversaw the law. Remember, after the adoption of the new Law on Banka Slovenije, which granted the Court of Auditors in 2017 the powers to revise the regularity and prudence of the Bank of Slovenia, Banka Slovenije sent it for constitutional review. It then withdrew its judgment under pressure from the public in 2018. When the Court of Auditors wanted to revise banks this year, Banka Slovenije did not want to send her all the documentation in time. When the Court of Auditors only reached out to the documentation and finally carried out the audit, on 12 October, the Bank of Slovenia, which is a good week ago, allowed itself the last one in a series of downtrodden moves. Just before the publication of the audit report, a legal article which thus allows the Court of Auditors to audit the Bank of Slovenia was sent back for constitutional review in order to prevent the publication of the findings. In Levica, a prudent candidate for the vice-governance would be expected to distance himself from such practices at least clearly and loudly, but not to give them silence, as the current candidate, with inappropriate statements. We will therefore object to her appointment in Levika. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the Nova Slovenija Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary-General, Office of the President of the Republic, Mrs. Kovac, dear colleague, dear colleagues! The delegation invited or accepted all 10 candidates for the vice-governor or vice-governor of the Bank of Slovenia. We were positively surprised by the extremely good professional offer of candidates and candidates, which we would like for example in the case of Constitutional Judges or Judges. After this interview and after the candidates and candidates were publicly published, there were also some untruths recorded in Slovenian media, but here I will commend the editorial board of the newspaper Dnevnik, which apologized to Mr Igor Masten, the wife of the candidate source. Prof. Arjana Brezigar Masten, for the wrong reasons, as he publicly declared or informed the Bank’s SID Supervisor, 15 of his activities. 9. that if his wife is appointed to the National Council for Vice-Governor, he will immediately resign from the position of Supervisor of the SID of the Bank. So much for the truth. The Bank of Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is a link between Slovenia and the other euro countries. Through it, Slovenia realizes its interest in taking global financial decisions and the decision of monetary policy of the second most important global currency. The Bank of Slovenia also plays an important role in the process of deepening the integration of countries with the euro, from joint supervision of banks to the establishment of mechanisms for their resolution. Finally, Banka Slovenije is the guardian of Slovenian financial stability. The management of such an institution requires a person with professional and moral integrity, high professional knowledge, a vision of institution development and connectivity, and the ability to operate in international financial circles. We are confident that Dr. Arjana Brezigar Masten, an outstanding professor, meets these criteria. Due to the complexity of the global financial system and the modern challenges in banking regulation and monetary policy management challenges, the central bank's management requires a combination of practical and academic knowledge, both macro and monetary economics and finance. Arjana Brezigar Masten has PhDd in macro-economics and finance at the University of Siena and is actively involved in macroeconomic and monetary policy as director of the Analytical Research Department at the Bank of Slovenia. The latter is also responsible, inter alia, for economic and monetary policy, research and international relations. Arjana Brezigar Masten is also a representative of Banka Slovenije on the Committee on Monetary Policy within the European Central Bank and is actively involved in the creation of monetary policy within the Eurosystem. In addition to knowledge and experience from the macro and monetary economy, Arjana Brezigar Masten has extensive experience in banking. This is demonstrated by its publications, advisory work in the past and ongoing work on the Bank of Slovenia. We did not miss the support that Dr Arjani Brezigar Masten received from Dr. Mojmir Dark, Mrs. Tjaša Bantan Polak, Director of Aseptic Products Ljubljana, Lek Novartis, Professor Klavdija Kutnar, Rector of the University of Primorska, Professor of Matthew Avbelj, Rector of the New University. Dear colleagues and colleagues, for all the reasons mentioned in the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, we believe that Dr Arjana Brezigar Masten is the best candidate for Vice-Governor of the Bank of Slovenia, both because of her competence and because of her personality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a joint secret vote on the proposal to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor. In accordance with Article 14, paragraph 1, of the Constitutional Court Act and Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the National Assembly shall decide on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court and on the appointment of a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor, by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Franc Breznik, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, Andreja Zabret, the Marjan Sarca Group, Boštjan Koražija, the Left Group and Blaž Pavlin, the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. I, too, am a member of this group as chairman. Ms Jernej Bergoč, Deputy Secretary-General, will also participate in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to such a proposal for a commission? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 73 votes against 1. [[The vote was 73.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, two votes will be delivered to the Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name. Members and Members of the Commission are requested to keep the distance recommended when waiting for the voicemails to be delivered in accordance with the preventive measures. The vote shall be taken by surrounding the word ZA or the word AGAIN on each ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the proposed candidate for Constitutional Judge, Dr Ange Erbežnik, will be elected if the majority of all Members and Members vote, that is 46 or more. In accordance with Article 37, paragraph 5, of the Bank of Slovenia Act, the proposed candidate for a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor Dr Arjana Brezigar Masten, will be appointed if the majority of all Members and Members of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia vote, i.e. 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members of Parliament will submit the completed votes to the ballot box, which will be placed at the table next to the voting booths. Before we proceed to the secret ballot, I would like to draw attention to the provision of Article 92(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provides that persons who are not involved in the vote shall not be allowed to vote during secret ballots in the Chamber. I therefore call on all representatives of the Government and the experts of the parliamentary groups to leave the Chamber at this time. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 1 p.m. and will last until 13.20. After the vote, I ask the Member of Parliament and Members to assist me in voting to meet in room 2017. I interrupt this agenda item and the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 1300 hours and 50 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 12.51 and resumed at 13.50.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-21-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u87	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! We continue the adjourned session and the 16th item of the agenda. Proposal for the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Let me read the minutes on the outcome of the vote. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 21 October 2020. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid, 79 votes were valid. 44 Members and Members voted against by 35 Members and Members. The candidate, Dr. Ange Erbežnik, has not received the majority of the votes of all Members and Members, and is therefore not elected as Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. As the candidate of Dr Ange Erbežnik has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, elections shall be held on the basis of a new proposal by the President of the Republic. We continue with the proposal to appoint a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor. Let me read the minutes on the findings of the vote on the appointment. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly on 21 October 2020. 82 ballots were distributed, 82 ballots were delivered. Three votes were invalid, 79 votes were valid. 44 Members and Members voted against by 35 Members and Members. Ms Arjana Brezigar Masten did not receive the majority of the votes of all Members and Members, so she is not appointed a member of the Council of the Bank of Slovenia, Vice-Governor. Since the proposed candidate has not received a sufficient number of votes from Members and Members, I will, in accordance with Article 37(6) of the Law on the Bank of Slovenia, inform the President of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibility of holders of public functions on the programme of child cardiology and on the procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President, members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 76 votes against one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda – Questions of Members and Members. The vote will take place on the basis of a review of the proposals made by Members and Members for a debate on the replies of the President of the Government, ministers and ministers of 20 October 2020, which is published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Parliamentary victory by Jelinčič Trimenite concerning the salaries of certain public servants. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 19 votes against 56. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 56.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question by Mr Jani Möderndorfer on the treatment and care of covid-19 patients and the consequences for non-covid programmes. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, and they voted against it. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Prime Minister Janez Janša to the question of Mr Soniboj Knezak on the establishment of the reserve demographic fund. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 43. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Aljaž Kovacič on the course of education, with a possible material deterioration of the epidemiological picture. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Mr Mate T. Vatovac, on the agreement and procedure for the appointment of the Director of the Pedagogical Institute. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Kortnik, to Tina Heferle's question on the drafting of new electoral legislation. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to Violet Tomić's question on police advice to victims of sexual violence published on the Police website. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Interior Minister Aleš Hojs to the Nik Preil question on exchanges of duties of the Director of the National Investigation Office. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly held a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the equal opportunity of Janez Cigler King to the question of the Ambassador, Andreja Zabret, concerning the maintenance of the necessary professional assistance for children with special needs, with a view to reducing the epidemiological picture with covid-19. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister without a portfolio responsible for development and European cohesion policy, Zvonka Černač, to the question of mags. Andrej Reich in connection with the use of European funds. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 44. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of the Minister of Public Administration, Boštjan Koritnik, to the question of Mr Jani Ivanuše, on the work of public servants. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 54. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 54.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. At the next meeting, the National Assembly will hold a discussion on the response of Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simone Kustec, to the question of Aljaž Kovacič on financing and measures in the field of sport. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of mags. Meire Hot regarding special needs measures for children and disabled children in the event of a worsening epidemiological picture. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 42. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and equal opportunities for John Cigler King to the question of Bosniak Koražija on the rise in invalidity pensions. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 44. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Defence of Magi. Matthew Tonin and the Minister for the Environment and the Magi Space. Andrej Visiak asked Robert Pavšić about the regulation of the status of the Slovenian Armed Forces' central exercise in Počko and the water source for the 20,000 inhabitants of Pivka and Postojna. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 45. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of Economic Development and Technology Zdravka Pavlovska to Jožet Lenart's question on the seven-year action plan to increase the competitiveness of forest chains and the development of the wood processing industry in Slovenia. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovec, to the question of Mr Željk Cigler, on the construction of the 3rd development axis in the mining area of the Velenje Coal in the section of Gaberka. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 45. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Magi space. Andrej Viszak to the question of Bosniak Koražija regarding safety at waste landfills. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Janez Cigler King to Dusan Šiška's question concerning the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Work. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 22 votes against 53. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 53.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Infrastructure, Jernej Vrtovac, and the Minister of Environment and Magi. Andrej Visiak on the question of the intended co-incineration of alternative fuels, waste and hazardous waste in Block 6 of the Šostanja Thermoelectrica. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 21st session of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m.
