ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Marko Koprivc, Matjaž German, mag. Bojana Muršič, Soniboj Prince, only Bevk, mag. Diane Jedhan, Dr. Franc Trček, Predrag Baković, Dr. Matej T. Vatovec, Željko Cigler, Boštjan Koražija, Maša Kociper, Marko Bandelli, Vojko Starović, Franc Kramar, Andrej Reich and Mag. Bran Golubovic. At the meeting, I invited the government representatives to all points. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda today, 30 May 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to withdraw the agenda item or proposals to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. 61 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a decision on the non-admissibility of a legal referendum on the law on the enlargement of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Institute for Temporary Support for the Reduction of Unavailability Risks in Extraordinary Rates (SOURAGE) following the election of Chad-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mag. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! At its 38th extraordinary meeting, on 29 May, the National Assembly adopted the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support to mitigate the risks of unemployment in emergency situations following the outbreak of covid-19. Article 90 of the Constitution provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published in the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters also defines the mass phenomenon of infectious human, animal or plant diseases as a natural disaster. The adoption of the proposed law allows the Republic of Slovenia to conclude a guarantee agreement with the European Commission to support the SURE instrument. This instrument is defined by Council Regulation (EU) 2020/672 of 19 May 2020, which is fully directly applicable. The 17th paragraph of its preamble expressly provides that the Regulation should enter into force on the day of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union as soon as possible, as a result of the outbreak of covid-19 and the need for an emergency response. The exceptional circumstances over which Member States are not in control and for which a significant part of their workforce is unable to carry out their work have led to a sudden and strong increase in Member States' public financial expenditure for short-term schemes for employees and self-employed persons, as well as for expenditure, for certain health-related measures, particularly in the workplace. The draft law provides the legal basis for the measure of the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia under the SURE after the outbreak of covid-19 for financial assistance to Member States in the form of loans from the European Commission intended to control the sudden and strong increase in actual and unplanned public financial expenditure to mitigate the direct economic, social and health-related effects of the emergency caused by the outbreak of covid-19. The EU Council Regulation also provides that the SURE instrument becomes available only when all Member States contribute to the instrument in a way that they conclude an appropriate guarantee or guarantee agreement with the European Commission. Given that the Republic of Slovenia agreed with the adoption of this Regulation that its adoption was necessary as soon as possible to remedy the consequences of the epidemic in the field of employment and self-employment, and that the availability of an instrument to remedy these consequences was conditional on the participation of all Member States, the condition laid down in Article 90 of the Constitution as regards the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is fulfilled in the opinion of the Government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Andrej Zabret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Dear President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we supported the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia, which will provide a guarantee of EUR 88 million for the purpose of establishing the European instrument SURE. On this basis, Slovenia will be able to apply for a loan of around 900 million, which will be much more favourable than if the State requested it itself. In this way, we have made it possible to finance the employment-related measures envisaged under yesterday's anti-Korona package through the SURE loan. We are aware of the urgency of the procedure, but we must also point out the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, which pointed out that the adoption of the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the guarantee law of the Republic of Slovenia relating to the European instrument of SURE would contribute to non-compliance with the first indent of Article 90 of the Constitution. It is also questionable whether Slovenia will be able to demonstrate the eligibility of the funds under the SURE instrument, whether, according to the Constitution, covid-19 measures can be classified under the consequences of a natural disaster in accordance with the first indent of Article 90, after which the referendum is not signed. There are still some shortcomings to be highlighted due to the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the shorter ZRLI, of 7 April 2020. Article 21 has been amended by the law, which is due to the fact that Slovenia is facing the covid-19 crisis and measures have to be taken in various areas. This was particularly important in terms of weaker social groups. Pursuant to Article 21a of the ZRLI, it is possible to conclude before a seven-day deadline that the referendum cannot be declared. However, this has led to a situation where the Council of State is not notified if the law is adopted in accordance with Article 21 of the ZRLI and whether it meets the conditions in accordance with Article 90, first indent. Further, we must ask ourselves about the coherence between Article 21a of the ZRLI and Article 91 of the Constitution. In accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution, it is possible for the Council of State to submit to the Council seven days after the adoption of the law that the National Assembly should decide again on the law in question. After all, we must be aware of the hierarchy of legal acts and, according to the hierarchy, the Constitution is on ZRLI. In the LMŠ Group, we are aware of the necessity of the guarantee law, which will contribute to the establishment of the European instrument SURE and thus allow Slovenia to have a more favourable loan, but we cannot go beyond the shortcomings related to the decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum on the guarantee law relating to the European instrument SURE, so we will abstain from the proposed decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u5	Thank you. The SD Group, Comrade Jani Prednik, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u6	All due respect, everyone, one nice Saturday night! The National Assembly adopted yet another third package of intervention so-called anti-Korona laws proposed by the Government. We have actively participated in the consideration of the draft laws, not only this time, but also in the first and second package. We have also proposed more meaningful and fairer solutions, and in cooperation with other opposition parties, we have also highlighted the problems of individual categories of people the government has overlooked. Despite some of the shortcomings of the laws, however, we did not oppose them in principle, since most of the solutions in them try to resolve the plight of people and the unenviable situation in carrying out the various economic activities created by the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. Since the laws have arrived in Parliament as a package, as a package, as well as a position on the inadmissibility of the referendum, we are presenting them as a common position to all three proposed conclusions today and we are cancelling the further discussion at today's meeting. 90. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. For the latter reason, the Government has proposed that the National Assembly on three intervention laws should adopt a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. We agree with the Social Democrats that legal solutions must be implemented as soon as possible, while we are aware of the warnings of the Legal and Legal Service, which states as follows: "We note that in the process of adopting the draft law to which the proposal relates, careful consideration must be given to whether all the content of the bill constitutes the necessary measures referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. The inclusion of other content could lead to the constitutional non-conformity and excessive application of the constitutional prohibition of the referendum and to interference with the right to a referendum, which could therefore prove constitutionally unacceptable in the procedure for any constitutional review of the law.” End of quote. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that, above all, it is the responsibility of the Government, as a bill-maker and a government coalition, that the entire content of the legislative proposals is purely interventional in nature, which justifies the inadmissibility of the referendum and allows them to be implemented immediately. In doing so, we do not want to hinder the swift implementation of all those solutions aimed at helping people and the economy to maintain employment and economic activity. For this reason, the Social Democrats will abstain from voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the SMC Group, a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, President. Respected and respected! At today's extraordinary meeting, members of the National Assembly are considering proposals for decisions on the inadmissibility of referenda for the third anti-Korona legal package. For the first time, we have considered such conclusions exactly one month ago, for the laws prepared by the government under the second crown of the package. The purpose of the government was clear: to act as soon as possible and to take the necessary measures for citizens and citizens in order to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic. The help came at the right time and responded to the needs of many social groups at the time. Today our epidemiological picture is better than a month ago, lives are back in the old tracks, the measures are being released. Yesterday's legislative package has already implemented a third-largest set of measures to mitigate and address the consequences in the field of labour, public finances, economies, tourism, agriculture, scholarships, student food subsidies, higher education, infrastructure, public procurement, promotion of State importance investments and could also be listed. As the purpose today is the same as for the other two packages, i.e. the early adoption of measures, the National Assembly will reconsider the proposals for decisions on the inadmissibility of the referendum for all three laws contained in the third anti-Korona package. We are pleased that the Council of State has done its task today quickly and effectively and has contributed with its constructive attitude to the early entry into force of the measures. In the SMC, we are aware of the responsibility we have towards citizens. By giving our vote to confirm all three conclusions, we will provide the citizens and the economy with assistance as soon as possible. We are also aware that in such cases as the covid-19 epidemic, species need to be narrowed down and efforts must be made to implement laws that are good for our citizens as soon as possible and ensure that the burden of the crisis caused by the epidemic is reduced as possible. We will continue our constructive stance in taking the necessary measures in the future and will support all three proposals for conclusions today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u9	Thank you. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished secretaries of state, colleagues and colleagues! For reasons of time rationality, I will present the common position of the New Slovenia Group of Christian Democrats on the three proposals for decisions on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum, namely, firstly, the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support for the Reduction of the Risks of Unemployment in Emergency Situations (SURE), following the outbreak of covid-19, secondly, on the Intervention Law for the Elimination of Obstacles in the Implementation of Important Investments for the Starting of the Economy following the Covid-19 epidemic and thirdly on the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequence of the Covid-19 Epidemic. In Novi Slovenije we agree that the legislative referendum on the three laws adopted by the National Assembly yesterday is not admissible because the laws referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia are applicable. This provides that the referendum shall not be allowed to be declared on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with the provisions of Article 21a(1) of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly, acting on a proposal from the Government, shall adopt a decision establishing that a referendum shall not be permitted to be declared because it is an emergency measure to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. The National Assembly shall adopt a decision as soon as it has received a notification of the decision of the Council of State which has not voted veto on those laws. The decision must contain reasons why the referendum is not admissible. Explanation of the reasons: The exceptional situation in which the Republic of Slovenia experienced the outbreak of covid-19, requiring an immediate response from the State, stems from both historical sources which show that the anticipated consequences of this epidemic are not comparable to any event in history since World War II. However, the economic and social consequences of the world’s resources are compared to the great economic crisis, or great depression, of 1929, which spread from the United States to the world. The exceptional situation is also reflected in the projected economic developments. The International Monetary Fund, for example, predicts a decline in gross social product growth by 8% in 2020 to the Republic of Slovenia. Other institutions involved in forecasting these trends also predict a concrete slowdown in economic growth or a fall in gross social product. All of this, as a result of the economic downturn resulting from government decisions setting out measures to ensure public health, is expected to cause social distress and also consequences in other areas of life as soon as possible. All three proposals for conclusions for all three items on the agenda of today's meeting of the National Assembly will be supported by the New Slovenia Group. Allow me, colleagues and colleagues, to conclude by thanking the State Council and all individuals, experts in the National Assembly, who have made special efforts today, even though it is Saturday, the National Assembly will do one last thing before these three laws are enforced. Anyone who is a beneficiary under the first, second or third law should enjoy health and satisfaction through the laws of certain ratings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, a colleague of Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u12	President, thank you for your word. Everyone have a nice greeting in the hall. I'm trying to be really rational, and I hope that's how I'm gonna do it. I also have a common position of our parliamentary group on all three laws: the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for Temporary Support for the Mitigation of the Risks of Unemployment in Emergency Situations following the Covid-19 outbreak, the Intervention Act for the Elimination of Obstacles in the Implementation of Important Investments for the Starting of the Economy After the Covid-19 Epidemic, the Law on Intervention Measures to Eliminate and Eliminate the Consequences of the Covid-19 Epidemic. Yesterday, three intervention laws, which represent the continuation of the measures prepared by the Government in response to the adverse situation in particular in the labour market and the Crown economy, are of exceptional importance to Slovenian society. As a mature country, it is imperative that we deal effectively with the magnitude of the consequences of the recent quarantine. On 13 March, virtually everything came to a standstill, and now it is time to prepare ourselves immediately for a strategy of economic recovery and an early return to the normal and once stable track. Postponing the implementation of the new measures thus results in irreparable consequences for the economy, public finances and damage to people, and immediate enforcement is therefore necessary. Procrastination would constitute a time gap in the follow-up to and complementing the already adopted measures of aid to PKP-1 and PKP-2 this time with a view to revitalising the Slovenian economy. The proposal to all three proposals for decisions has a legal basis in the provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution, in conjunction with the new Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. Accordingly, the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Government, adopt a decision to establish that the referendum is not admissible because it is an emergency measure to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of a natural disaster under the assumption. There are also no further objections to the veto of the State Council. As all the formal availability of this institution has been fulfilled, Members of the Desus Group will also this time, as with other packages of anti-crisis measures to address the consequences of the natural disaster, which was certainly the epidemic, unanimously supported all three conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendum call.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. The word is from a colleague of Tina Hefferle's.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Neither will I be long, I will be rational with time, and I will somehow reach all three conclusions on which we are voting today. First of all, with regard to the appeal of this extraordinary session. I will not trouble you for an hour, not a day, because we all know that the President of the National Assembly has this authority to convene an extraordinary meeting, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, when it considers that this is necessary. I must also be correct here for the President to inform us of his reasons for doing so and to explain them to us. It is true, however, that the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative provides that the National Assembly shall, as soon as the Council of State decides not to require a veto for a law, act immediately. It's just that here this interpretation of the concept was immediately the way it is, so today we have this Saturday session. This, however, is simply so that there will not be one of the viewers who may now be watching us, who thought that there are some extraordinary or critical conditions in the country, that the National Assembly will be sitting on Saturday night. This timeline was only one option, and we are finally Members 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, this year 366, so it is nothing unusual. But something's true. And here I will be critical both from an expert and a political point of view. There is something wrong with all of these conclusions, which should be used today to vote against the referendum initiative. The law of guarantee is a law that does not, by its very nature and content, protect the defence of the state, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, which is clear and obvious at first sight and also by law. It is clear from the law on the start-up of investments that this law will not be able to make a full life on Monday or tomorrow when it enters into force, but the whole law is based on a list of priority investments which is not yet ready. If he were ready, the government would probably have published him by now or be part of the law or as an annex to the law, but that's not it. Thus, this law cannot be implemented without this list. It is also not possible for an expert group to carry out its work, which is also provided for in this law, so it is somehow incomprehensible why this law is being enforced overnight. The third so-called corona law is another one of those intervention laws that hide so-called subsets, i.e. articles that, by solving some economic, social, now not even so much health crisis, have no connection, absolutely nothing in common. Among other things, it also contains controversial and worrying articles that prolong measures in the field of the delivery of surplus packaging and the acquisition of building permits. These articles have nothing to do with this crisis that we are in. The government thus restricts the right of the public to participate in decision-making in the field of environmental and nature protection. There has been much to be heard in recent days about the cooperation offered with the government, about the signing of the so-called partnership for development, and, on the other hand, we are witnessing again today when the same government and its coalition Members are using the coalition majority to vote on something, which, in our opinion, is certainly excessively interfering with the constitutional right to the referendum initiative of citizens. Therefore, there is probably no question as to why we do not want to cooperate and seal up with such a government, among other things. I have made it clear why neither of these three laws should be the subject of a decision prohibiting the referendum initiative, but I would like to point out that it is not so much the case that one of these laws is predicted to have the necessary signatures for the legislative referendum. It is more so that this option of limiting the referendum initiative is used substantially too wide and significantly too critical. Practically because some law is adopted during this time period in which we are, it can now be decided that the referendum is not admissible. I don't think that's okay. Instead, the law should be assessed according to its content, as is the case with the Constitution in its 90th Article, which makes it very clear that the referendum is not allowed to be declared when it comes to the law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State and security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. When making a guarantee, starting an investment, setting up a coordination group and drawing up a list of such investments, none of the provisions of Article 90 of the Constitution shall apply. It is also not this content when we are talking about a measure restricting public participation in administrative procedures for the issue of building permits. If I come back a little bit. In order to avoid the abuse of this legal possibility of prohibiting the referendum, we have proposed, when adopting the amendment of the Law on the Referendum and the Human Initiative in the LMŠ, that such a decision be voted on by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, which, finally, also requires the adoption of a law that speaks of this constitutional right, i.e. an initiative for a referendum. It is clear, or it should be made clear, that if a law defining this right and adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present, the legislator, when it has determined this, has probably assessed that it is a matter of exceptional importance and is more important than matter in some other laws which are adopted by the ordinary majority, it would be logical, therefore, that the restriction of this constitutional category should also be voted by the referendum initiative only and only by that majority. We now have a situation in which every single government or coalition majority can determine this right, which the law defines under stricter conditions, can vote peacefully by a simple majority and can live up to such a decision regarding each law. And here is the heart of the problem for me, because we currently have a coalition in power that obviously cannot resist this temptation of power, and this legal possibility of abuse, or if I express myself a little more kindly, it is used excessively, irresponsibly, disproportionately and without any critical judgment whether it is really necessary. If we continue to do so, or if we continue to do so, you will be able to propose such a decision for any law and the majority will vote. Where we're going in this case, we're probably clear. This is certainly not good for democracy because, however, it is one of the fundamental tools of cooperation and the control of people over power that is just a referendum initiative. And in this constitutional right, you, a respected coalition, on behalf of and under the pretext of the so-called Crown Law, in my opinion, are disproportionately interfering with and limiting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today immediately following the debate on item 3. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 2. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the Intervention of Verifications in the implementation of significant investments in the management of the Commodity Epidemic of Commodity 19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Metka Gorišek, State Secretary at the Ministry of Environment and Space.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u16	Dear, good-bye! I would like to briefly explain why this law is necessary to be adopted without further obstacles. All the economy has stopped at the time of the coronavirus and investments as such always represent some law and other activities, it is said to have some multiplier effect. This law will not introduce any additional costs, no additional funding requirements. On the basis of the analysis we have at the Ministry of Environment and Space, there is a great deal of investment, which is just before individual licences are issued and is therefore also possible for implementation in both the private and public sectors. These delays take years and because the procedures are complex, they are bureaucratic, many times these supplements are implemented in several stages, sometimes they are also contradictory, it is essential that we coordinate, conduct procedures to place them in space and grant permits. The purpose of this law is to speed up the procedures led by the Ministry of the Environment and Space in all areas of the economy by launching investments that will contribute significantly to this. I think that there is no obstacle here that this law would require some additional referendums or additional explanations, because it is in fact nothing more than that the system within the Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as other sectoral ministries that grant any authorisation, consent, coordinated lead and lead to a common effect that investments will be carried out. This will make a significant contribution to mitigating the epidemic, since, on the basis of this, other activities, not only in construction, will be able to relaunch their operations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarc, and colleague Edward Paulič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u18	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! When we recently adopted an amendment to the law governing the referendum and the people's initiative, we were able to hear by the proponents, i.e. the Government, that the amendment restricting the referendum initiative of citizens is appropriate, necessary and proportionate. Although the Government has prepared a legislative amendment in accordance with the 2013 amendment of the Constitution. Since then, the right to a referendum has been limited in relation to the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the country and security or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. All of this, in order to ensure a long-term legislative process and a potential referendum, would not jeopardise the implementation of constitutional provisions such as the protection of the constitutional order and the security of the State, people and property. In the LMŠ Group, we have already pointed out the risk of abuse of such legislation, since every time a coalition majority is able to vote a decision prohibiting the referendum in any law that the government or the government may propose or can rule in laws that are of an intervention nature and justify such a decision, it also includes certain legal provisions that are not interventional and even permanently interfere with the systemic regulation of a social area. That's what happened in the second kroner package, for example. In an intervention law to remove obstacles to the implementation of important investments for the start-up of the economy after the epidemic, on which today we are considering a decision to ban a referendum initiative, we have a situation where the whole law is based on a list of priority investments, and this list is not yet ready and the government will only prepare it later. Thus, even though the law can't live in practice, its enforcement is in such a hurry to do so overnight. Today's decision to ban the referendum initiative is not necessary in our opinion. Even if the marriage had not been published until the eighth day following its confirmation in the National Assembly, its purpose would have been achieved. Its purpose would also be achieved if a citizen were to be found within these eight days to predict the collection of signatures for the legislative referendum. In this case, the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 20 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, could adopt a conclusion that the referendum is not admissible. The excessive use of the legal option pre-empting the referendum initiative, according to the LMŠ Group, constitutes a disproportionate intervention in the constitutional category. In view of the fact that the law would also achieve its purpose in the ordinary legislative procedure, it is even unnecessary. We will abstain from voting on this Decision in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the left-wing group, colleague Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, chairman. Respected and respected! We have already highlighted in the previous anti-krone package in Levica what is unacceptable when it comes to adopting such conclusions as we are dealing with today. And that's not a referendum. These are the conclusions themselves. Restricting the referendum will of the people should be one of the most inconceivable, risky moves regardless of the situation. If rational arguments can further defend this at a time of emergency, on the other hand, this should be inconceivable in all other cases. Even in the case of anti-korona laws. With the second anti-korona package, we have seen a number of reasons why such a decision should not be proposed, let alone a vote. And now a good month later, we face the same situation again. The intervention law on the implementation of investments after the epidemic is a laboratory example of a law that will mainly benefit lobby networks and will pose a risk to the inhabitants and residents of Slovenia, as well as to public finances. As we have already pointed out, the law is essentially empty and indeterminate, which is more than obviously its purpose. The purpose of this law is to lay the legal basis for the implementation of the major projects that have been forced by energy, road transport, construction and other lobbying. Under this law, Minister Vizjak proposes something that he forgot in his first attempt to confiscate public finances for partisan interests when he was Minister of Economy in the first Janša government. In 2006, the government adopted a resolution on national development projects, a resolution which represented a list of oversupplyed construction projects to be built within 15 years, including the second block of NEK and the mother of all incineration plants – the sixth block of TES. Well, despite the fact that the Constitutional Court at that time decided that the resolution was a paper listing Lobby's wishes, it served as the basis for all subsequent governments to build TES 6. Anyway, this list got a legal basis yesterday. And this legal basis, among other things, removes administrative obstacles to capital. This legal basis predicts a war on the environment affected by capital. The so-called administrative barriers are in environmental legislation for reasons of protecting the environment and nature. Natural and environmental organisations are also involved in the procedures in order to avoid natural looting. In these cases, however, they have a hard time working, and only with great efforts are they opposed to the thresholds of politics and capital. And in such cases, when the quality of the bibian environment, human health and long-term nature conservation are at stake, it is unacceptable to demand a referendum on a law that is shamelessly revved and opens the door to degradation of nature, ordinary crime. We won't support the conclusion in the Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u21	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. I've got a couple of tickets here, so it's my first job as a colleague, Natasa Sukič, and then as a colleague, Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u22	Your Honor, otherwise, I thought my colleague Violet Tomic would have the advantage, but whatever. We've been for a while, and we've been keeping an intense eye on what's wrong with this case in the last week. Again wrong in this case when it comes to an intervention law to remove obstacles in the implementation of important investments to start the economy after the covid-19 epidemic. By this law you have actually predicted a final war of nature. With this law you have actually opened the door wide to capital, often dirty capital, which is mainly about profit, unfortunately, and not so much nature, nature protection, environment and human health. With this law you have foreseen a project group, and Minister Vizjak has foreseen it, where everything is very loosely defined, it is not clear exactly what this group will do when it sets these priorities, nor is it clear whether external experts will be involved. That is also what the Law-Legal Service has pointed out. If we have external experts involved, then it is necessary to have clear criteria on what criteria these experts are involved in. If this is not the case, this is something and there may also be conflicts of interest, such as conflicts of interest, that potential investors are involved. But they probably already are. Unfortunately, the media found that the list of these projects already exists and that this quasi-project group, which this law cited and which we actually confirmed yesterday, is actually sand in the eyes, because things are already on paper, are already defined. We are truly unique to the environment minister Vizjak, who should be primarily concerned with the protection of nature and the environment, acts as if he is still the Minister of Economy. In fact, we now have two ministers for the economy with two major obsessions. Minister Počvalšek is obsessed with the state holding for tourism and Minister Vizjak with the Mokrice hydroelectric power plant. This hydroelectric power plant Mokrice, we believe what the media have reached, is actually a priority already on the existing list, which, of course, is disguised in this law as if it does not exist yet, as if it is something that the project group will put on. When it comes to such carriageways, they take over existing legislation when it comes to reducing environmental, environmental and environmental standards, when it comes to restricting the last shield against the misuse of capital at the expense of the environment, it is said that when it comes to the conversion of the participation of NGOs and when you wrap it up in some intervention law under the pretext that this crisis is covid-19, in fact, that is why it is necessary to rush and thus push it all together into some laws, it is actually totally unacceptable. And these are the things that come out of these crowns of packages. This is not the first case where we have a potential anti-constitution where we have a breach of legislation or a reduction of standards that we have already achieved, at a time when we are talking about a green future in Europe, a new green agreement when awareness begins in Europe and around the world, and environmental standards need to be sharpened. No, we do the opposite. We do everything we can to lower these standards, so that those who had the power to prevent, easily cut off, and then here's the construction lobby, is here, excuse the expression, on the work of the concrete mafia, who will be able to do anything. And, of course, that's unacceptable. These things should be decided by people at a referendum, and you're preventing them from presuming that this is an intervention law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u23	Thank you. The word of colleague Violeta Tomić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. I find these common positions interesting, now let's say it as soon as possible, and we'll go home, we'll have most of it, but you won't. And then you call these sessions over the weekend, and it's very late, and then you're mad at Levica, if she wants to discuss and do at least this democratic little piece that we have left in this national assembly. The government boasts so much about how successful it is in solving this crisis, and is increasingly demonstrating its exceptional incompetence. Regrettably, if there was no cobbler crisis, this government should have invented it, because its wet dreams are that there is no opposition, no laws, and that they can do what they want. This will to power is very expressive, and this is very worrying. You're saying these laws will limit unemployment. However, you have done nothing to save existing jobs. We know that a lot of people lost their jobs during the co-crisis. And what did you do for them? We are second in the European Union after unemployment. Only Greece outnumbers us. We should really think about this, not go to the construction lobby to give our environment, our nature, our water and our air. You know, also reducing unemployment compensation to 50% instead of 80% to give employers subsidies, whether they forgive workers at this time or not, these are things that should be seriously imagined. Not that you'll have any construction projects now. We've heard the start of construction and there's no extra costs. What are you going to build with if there are no extra costs, please?Oh, my God! You're using so-called emergency situations that aren't actually there. There was an epidemic you didn't face properly. People died in nursing homes, you created masks that don't work, those who don't work, commissions went to heaven, and now you're going to destroy the environment. Infringement of Article 90 of the Constitution, which states that a referendum is permissible only in the event of the defence, security or resolution of the consequences of natural disasters. Are we at war? Are we at war? I'm asking you. Yes, of course, Minister Tonin will now fly home with some of Nate's military planes for the elderly. [[advertising from the hall]] He doesn't have an exam. Nice, but he'll drive around, and he doesn't have to. Or he'll take a picture of what he did wonderfully. Just like he kept taking pictures in front of the warehouse. Tell me what helps an older man who didn't get medical care at a nursing home if he's hit by planes over his head. What's helping him? What does the abolition of the right to referendum have to do with security? Natural Disasters — Was It a Flood? Did we have forest fires? In short, the transmission is complete. You have prevented environmental organisations doing what you should be doing here in Parliament to participate in these procedures at all. It became clear to me yesterday, yes, we were brought by people to this Parliament and you by the lobby. And each one serves his master. I'm proud to serve those who fight for positive things, air, water and all. We've got a whole bunch of scoundrels in a marriage that's supposed to solve the crown crisis. And those planted are a big problem. So there's no way I can support this. But I would say that these evening sessions are very interesting, because you obviously knew yourself a lot earlier than I did, that this session would be because you were able to inform your people, and all the people couldn't come to this meeting. Some Members are far away, so your majority is even better assured and [[…]] [[talking to each other]] Okay, but you're part of the coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today immediately following the debate on item 3. That's what I'm breaking up with. We're moving to 3. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on intervention measures and the removal of the consequences of epidemia of cviddid-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Janez Cigler, the King, the Minister for Labour, the family, social affairs and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u26	Good evening. Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! The law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic is mitigating and addressing the consequences of the natural disaster of the epidemic on the economy, public finances and citizens. The epidemic has created and continues to have consequences for the economy, especially in the areas of tourism, catering, the automotive industry, agriculture, education, social protection and elsewhere. The exceptional situation faced by the Republic of Slovenia in the wake of the outbreak of covid-19, which required an immediate response from the State, also stems from historical sources which show that the anticipated consequences of this epidemic are not comparable to any events in history since World War II. According to European Commission forecasts, Slovenia's covid-19 economy will shrink by 7% in 2020 and an average of 7.4% in the European Union. The COPID-19 scenario, prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development for the needs of medium-term budgetary planning, foresees that in 2020 GDP would fall by around 8%, taking into account economic policy measures to mitigate the impact of the epidemic and predicts a gradual recovery of the economy that will begin in June. In addition to slowing down economic growth, the covid-19 disease epidemic has many consequences in other areas of life, and additional measures have to be taken to mitigate and address the consequences of the epidemic for a number of areas. In the law for which we propose a decision here, three bearing measures are the measure of partial reimbursement of the remuneration of workers on temporary wait for work for all employers; the measure of partial subsidisation of reduced full-time employment for the period up to 31. 12. 2020 and a voucher to improve the economic situation in the field of tourism. The adoption of intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic thus constitutes an emergency measure which will help to mitigate and address the consequences of the natural disaster of the epidemic on the economy, public finances and citizens. The measures introduced by the Law on Intervention Measures for the Control of Covid-19 Epidemic and the Mitigation of its Consequences for the Citizens and the Economy shall be effective from 31 December 2016. 5. 2020 will expire. Therefore, a new law needs to be stepped up to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the 1st epidemic. 6. in force. The Act on Intervention Measures for the Mitigation and Elimination of the Consequences of the Epidemic relates to the content in respect of which, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the call for a legislative referendum is not admissible because the law in question constitutes the law on emergency measures to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Parliamentary Group Left, colleague Natasha Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respected and respected! Of course, it is hard to imagine that there would be an instigator requiring a referendum on the intervention law to remedy the consequences of the covid-19 epidemic. However, this does not mean that such a law is formally fully interventional and cannot be found in disputed provisions. In Levica, we objected to this year's amendment of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative due to the risk that it is not possible to influence and count on the ethics and morality of the government so that the government does not use intervention laws to bring about controversial provisions that could not then be verified at the referendum. That's exactly what we're witnessing in this intervention law. The first example of this is an attack on nature and the environment. Before the outbreak of the Coronavirus pandemic, the world slowly began to realize that there is no room for manoeuvre to preserve the living environment, so the new green agreement proposed by the European Union for the next perspective. As a matter of fact, everyone else, except President Trump, our SDS and some exotic people, is aware of that. After all, the epidemic is an opportunity for red alarms to start taking seriously and to start building different customs, different policies that would go in the direction of nature and environment conservation and also comprehensive social reconstruction. But no, Janša's government goes and demolishes what's already been won. In the intervention law, it strongly reduces the already acquired standards of environmental protection, construction of buildings and space regulation. The key word for the government's last move, as I pointed out in the previous law, is concrete. The positions of some coalition partners are also eloquent, which say that nature is given to protect it, but we are also exploiting it. Such measures open the door wide to dirty capital, which is not of interest to the environment, nature and human health. He's interested in profit. And here we have environmental and nature-protective organisations that are the last shield against debasing and harmful interventions into the environment and space. Well, they should be if the government with intervention anti-korona laws didn't prevent them. Even workers are not safe from capital attacks in the hands of the government. The inability of this government has caused unemployment to rise by almost 50% in the first four months of this year compared to the same period last year. The government takes care of employers by means of an intervention law, but not of job-preservation guards. In Levi, we insist that any capital subsidy should be conditioned by maintaining jobs at least for the duration of the subsidy. After all, they are workers who are quarantined. So far, they have been entitled to 80 % of the remuneration and under the intervention law, the government has compensated them less than 50 %. If the government has too much credit for tourism and capital, it does not have it for culture. We save all sectors and sectors and cultural workers are overlooked. Although the coalition amendment has extended the waiting schedule to some cultural activities, not all of them, although it is clear that cultural workers will not be able to carry out their activities normally for some time because of the limitations associated with the covid-19 epidemic and are therefore among the most affected. In Levi, we insist that this intervention law has a set of controversial provisions which are not of an intervention nature. We will vote against the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I'll be very short. Today we decide on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum, in this case for a third anti-kron package. Since I am already in the position of the Group of Members yesterday, and later my fellow Members have already explained this in the debates, and since I have already explained yesterday the substantive solutions and measures that we are helping people, the economy and tourism in the third anti-korona package, I would like to say just the following at this point. First of all, thank you to all those who have recognized on the Committee on Work, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons how important it is that we adopt the law as soon as possible so that the assistance can reach those who urgently need it. I am also pleased that this government, through the Economic and Social Council, conducted excellent dialogue with the social partners and coordinated most of the measures with them. A high degree of consensus has been reached, and the result is that both the economy and the unions support the proposed changes that we adopted yesterday in the National Assembly. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum for all three laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u31	The text is given by the Group of Ambassadors, Lista Marjan Šarca, a colleague of Jerco Korča.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u32	A nice Saturday greeting, distinguished colleagues, presidents, representatives of the Ministry! There is no doubt that the situation we are facing requires the rapid adoption of legislative acts that can effectively and effectively be sunk into people's aid and thus mitigate and remedy the consequences of the epidemic. There is no doubt, too, that we support the rapid and effective assistance provided by the Charter of Marjan Šarc to serve this endowment of the economic crisis. Unfortunately, however, the government decides every time to introduce articles in intervention laws that have nothing to do with the basic purposes of laws. The government introduced an article into the law under the pretext of tourism and hospitality, which destroys almost all nature protection and environmental protection guards in the construction of large buildings. In addition, she introduced an article by which the Minister would be able to impose a quarantine, which restricted freedom of movement, without a previous proposal from the Institute for Health Protection. What can we do to the opposition MPs? We are proposing amendments and, through an argumented debate, we are doing everything we can to convince our fellow Members to renounce the pre-agreed vote and not merely extend the deadline of the government. What can citizens and citizens do? Elections shall be held and, on the basis of programmes and other political origins, shall be elected by their representatives. They can draw attention to missed policy decisions by calling, writing, trying to engage in dialogue. When none of the above depends, the street happens. Unfortunately, we have come into a situation where some of the parties have betrayed their constituents, who have also trusted them in their claims, in which way the policy will not go hand in hand. The government has shown by its ignorance that dialogue with civil society rather than enriching ideas and seeking better solutions is taking it as an unnecessary obstacle. The government has already shown how professional opinions do not form the basis for political opinion. It is a pity, however, that in this assembly, the coalition majority no longer survives even a little of their own judgment of rebellion to at least those articles that the government introduces into laws that are unnecessary, meaningless and harmful. You beat up the opposition's amendments yesterday. Even those for deleting controversial articles and showing how much you care about blocking illegal government interventions. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that restricting the referendum initiative on such a marriage text is excessive and could even be unconstitutional at the time of constitutional judgment. That the law on which the government wants to ban the referendum initiative is not allowed to place non-essential content for intervention laws, we have already warned in the previous two intervention packages. Our calls were also answered in the third package. Unfortunately, unfortunately, we cannot support this decision in the letter of Marjan Šarc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Igor Peček, LMŠ, has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] No, no, no. Violeta Tomic, are you next because I've got a few tickets? Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Thank you for inviting me to my word, even though I didn't answer. I'll say something, though. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u35	You're written, you're written [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u36	What's the problem? [[advertising from the hall]] Can you please let me talk? The government and the coalition MPs are so full of themselves, so arrogant that you do not even allow members of the opposition to normally debate on behalf of their constituents. You speak clearly in the name of – whose only, I will not be merely a completely incompetent government afraid of its people. [[…]] Has anyone ever told you to call a referendum on this insane aid that is in the third crown of the package? It probably wouldn't even come to anyone's mind. And you do not trust people with their healthy judgment so that you can at least leave and not call such shameful evening meetings, no matter when they are, but by doing so you can clearly express your attitude towards the people and people of Slovenia. That, you know, is a shame, a shame, a shame if I paraphrase a colleague on that side. An incompetent government feels fear of its people. The incompetent government needs fences, needs marks and a complete disengagement of the opposition. The incompetent government is afraid of referendum and human initiatives. The incompetent government is very afraid of the profession. When a doctor says the respirators aren't good, he needs to be discredited. He's afraid of intellectuals and he's afraid of culture. He's afraid of independent media. You know, this will to power, which drives this government, brings Slovenia into great and grave problems. Instead of thinking about a new green agreement and a start-up economy in a different way, you in an outdated medieval way are thinking of concrete every last piece. Probably because of a deal with some lobby. And I'm gonna touch Nate's planes in our sky again. According to the information I have, 1 hour in F-16 costs $8,000. I'm very interested in how many planes there will be, because if they fly an hour and a half, as predicted, one plane will spend $16,000. I'm really curious, and I'd like someone to answer where these planes were when we had to move the protective equipment to these same homes and to these patients. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Where were they so you wouldn't have to pay millions for transport? Thank you for your extraordinary patience while I discuss it. This is as Mr Restorationk says, we do not need to explain anything to anyone. Really? One day you'll answer to people.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. My colleague Natasha Sukič, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Thank you, Chairman. We've got some laws ahead of us that he's always in a rush with. He's in a hurry. I don't know why. Probably to cover up the inability to really solve things. By this law, you have set yourself three key measures: subsidising a reduced worker, extending the subsidisation of waiting for work and a tourism voucher. All three things aren't quite right. In subsidising a reduced worker, we have a problem because capital is being subsidised, but there is no guardian inside that during the period of subsidisation the employer should allow the worker to work for the same period as he received the subsidy. So what exactly is this charade for? Then the extension of the subsidy waiting for work. What did you do? People who will be forced into quarantine will no longer be compensated for the hospital, says 80%, but will only get 50% of their salary. That means you've deprived them, because if you're forced to quarantine, it should have the same status as the hospital's stock. Tourism vouchers. We discussed what they meant yesterday. The poorest won't be able to afford holidays. Well, not just that! Even the capacity is not enough for all citizens and citizens to actually use these vouchers. We know who's gonna spend it. Those who don't really need those kind of vouchers. What's most absurd is that you actually predicted a war of nature. What attitude you have toward environmental protection not only shows what you have done with non-governmental people, but indeed what your colleague mentioned earlier – a great celebration will happen in heaven. You're going to put extra particles in the sky that are going to pollute the air, you're going to use up the air fuel. What for? So that you can parade and parade around in the air, above the homes for the elderly, where there are people who have been or may still be getting over covid-19, which means respiratory problems. We know that respiratory problems are also associated with air pollution. This further exacerbates the condition of the patients. That's why such symbolism is really, I'm sorry, extremely inappropriate not to mention it, you're always saying that you're short of money for the military, but for such a release of money into the air, and you obviously don't miss it. It's all really this rush, this coercion, it's forcing night meetings to be convened, and they're moving away from the public to blackmail and foment things that don't belong to intervention laws, but it's all very clear what you want. In fact, we have repeatedly said that you are a coalition roller, rolling and grinding, regardless of everything – regardless of the laws, regardless of the constitution, regardless of once achieved environmental standards. I think it's completely depressed. In the end, you pack it all up in such a way that even a referendum is not possible. Of course, there is simply no other way to say this than to carry out obvious actions that actually mean the erosion of democracy in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Procedurally, Comrade Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Dear colleague Zorčič, President of the National Assembly. In the last seven minutes, Violeta Tomić and Nataša Sukič discussed a fully substantive legitimate debate. All the time, and I know that with procedural warnings I repeat myself behind many colleagues on this side of the Tribunal, but all the time Members of Parliament and Members of the SDS are chatting. They're not talking, they're talking loudly. A colleague sits a meter and a half away from me, one line ahead of me, and I heard her harder than ever. I cannot imagine how other Members and Members can accompany the debate. Your job is to ensure order. And that's not the order of the day. I understand that it is difficult for Members and Members of the government coalition to lie to them when Members and Members of Parliament on this side reveal all the tricks of their fast, almost parliamentary process, which cannot lead to any normal state of action at all. Unfortunately, though, we need to be a little quiet — is it not the point of discussion on one side of the discussion of the word on the other? My procedural proposal or your request, if you please, President, is to ensure peace from now on. Whoever debates has this right and here is a Member from his electorate and electorate to have at least this time, given him, peace and opportunity to publish his position in such a humane and normal manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u41	My friend Siter, I think the situation is bearable. The fact is, I am sure that colleagues of the SDS have listened very carefully to colleague Tomić and have then reacted because of her graphic words. If you hadn't listened to her, you wouldn't have. But I suggest to everyone, colleagues and colleagues, that we are truly calm and respectful of those who say that they can gather. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will also be given the floor by the representative of the Government. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u42	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members and Members, for giving me the opportunity to tell you the truth. This government sees many capable people in the Republic of Slovenia. This government sees 300,000 able-bodied pensioners who have received a supplement, a solidarity allowance during the epidemic. This government sees 200,000 capable employees who have received a supplement or compensation for waiting at home during the epidemic. This government sees 200,000 capable children from families who have one or two children who received a solidarity allowance during the epidemic. This government sees 30,000 capable large families who have received a solidarity allowance. This government sees 32,000 self-employed people who have received universal basic income and contributions during the epidemic, as well as many other self-employed people who have worked and did not need this contribution. This government sees 75,000 capable students who will continue our work in the future. This government sees finally capable social partners who have participated in the first two crowns of the package and even in the official social dialogue in the third anti-korona package. This government sees capable members of civil protection, volunteers who will be paid a hazard allowance and special burdens. This government sees capable firefighters, paramedics and others who will receive an addition with a third antikron package. This government sees capable farmers, this government sees capable public servants who have proved that in emergency situations a number of intervention measures can be implemented and at the same time enable life in the country to run normally. Forgive me if I didn't count all of them, I wouldn't want to hold back the work of this council. This government especially sees many capable people in this country. And my colleague Horvath would conclude that it is time again, so this government to me when they were incapable of incapacitated.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-05-30-SDZ8-Izredna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. That's what I'm breaking up with. We are moving on to a decision on the proposals for conclusions. We will vote in the next order. 1st, 2nd and 3rd points. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of item 1 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Instrument for the Temporary Support of Reducing the Risk of Unemployment in Emergency Situations following the outbreak of covid-19. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Inadmissibility of the Call for a Legislative Referendum on the Intervention Law to Eliminate Obstacles in the Implementation of Important Investments to Start the Economy After the COVID-19 Epidemic. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the third item on the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on intervention measures to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the COVID-19 epidemic. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly.
