ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 21st session of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Gregor Židan, Franz Kramar, Mag. Carmen Furman, Michael Prevc, Ivan Hršak, Nada Brinovšek, Franc Rosec and Igor Zorčič. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving on to 12. DAY ORDERS — 25. ANNUAL REPORT OF THE PROTECTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2019 The Ombudsman submitted a regular annual report to the National Assembly for its consideration. I give the text to the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, Mihi Horvat, for further explanation of the report.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and representatives of the Government! First of all, I very much welcome you on my behalf, as well as on behalf of the entire institution of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia. Today the 25th Annual Report of the Ombudsman is being considered in the National Assembly. This number somehow tells us that it is a rather beautiful anniversary event, because these reports have now accumulated for about a quarter of a century. However, this opportunity is of some special importance to us, at least for entirely subjective reasons, for the first regular year of the report, which emerged and emerged during the time of the current Ombudsman's term of office, Peter Svetina, who was elected here by 89 votes in favour. That is why I am even more sorry that I have to excuse his presence at this very session today. What can I say, like many others, in these times of coronary disease epidemic, he came into contact with an infected person and was therefore quarantined. For the same reason, of course, he asked me to present this annual report to you. Nothing is said today about this so-called coronary problem in this annual report. The reason, of course, is very simple – the report refers to 2019, but at least at that time this new coronary virus was not yet a concept. Thus, on dealing with the challenges of this non-digare virus with you on any other occasion, if not sooner, when the next annual report is being considered. Today’s numbers also show that it is quite possible that this problem will still be very topical, unfortunately. If I now move on to the annual report in question, the 2019 annual report. Perhaps at least some of you have already noticed that we have set it up quite differently than we have submitted our annual reports so far, in a somewhat fresher way, on the one hand because of all these special circumstances that I have mentioned earlier, as regards jubilee and similar matters, and on the other hand to make it as accessible as possible in at least one of the versions for the external public, of which you are one of the important ones. This report was published in two versions, in a shorter printed version, which we also distributed around, and in a longer electronic version which is only available on our website. In this printed version, which we have distributed separately, there is only a general comment on the situation in specific areas and related our recommendations. In the electronic version, however, for all those who are interested in the background behind these final products in the form of recommendations and criticism presented by the background, our arguments, concrete examples and so on. An important reason for such an approach, as I have already mentioned, was to make the matter more transparent on the one hand, and on the other hand it was also a matter of realizing that, as has been done before, it will not go any further. For we have found that if we printed all this part, which is now in electronic form, we would end up with a report covering 800 pages. Another additional comment on these 800 pages is, of course, a great deal, but of course, we would like to stress specifically with the Ombudsman that it is not really an empty debt about something, just so that you want to take someone's breath with such numbers and the like, but it is a little bit of a reflection of the fact that in 2019 the Ombudsman dealt with 4 thousand 600 cases. Of this, 3,000 initiatives were weak on the part of people who felt that the authorities had somehow interfered with their rights. However, in the rest of the work, we also dealt with various conversations, personal, telephone calls, and various field visits, visits and controls, dealing with matters on our own initiative and so on. With such a number, it is clear that if each of these matters is taken seriously, and of course we are trying, then it is virtually impossible for such a scale of work to be squeezed to a lesser extent. We are of the opinion that even those things that, in the end, we consider to be unfounded or unjustifiable require an even better argument that people can, of course, get to know why the Ombudsman has taken an unappealable position on them. If I continue to refer to statistics on the violations detected by the Ombudsman in 2019. We have recorded 305 irregularities by 48 different bodies, most often in violation of the principle of good governance, children's rights and the rule of law and the social state. When it comes to the Ombudsman's numbers, I must point out immediately that this statistic in itself, although it is possible to make a variety of simple conclusions, does not, in fact, reflect the situation in the field of human rights, as the Ombudsman points out. One of the main reasons is that, in fact, among those matters that the Ombudsman considers to be justified at the end are those where, in fact, there is a question, or a violation, involving a much larger circle of people than that particular trigger that triggered the matter in us. This can be illustrated nicely, for example, by the case where the Ombudsman submits a constitutional assessment request, then the Constitutional Court also asserts that there has actually been a violation of the Constitution, and there is no doubt that the actual violation exists, so it is not still a matter for the Ombudsman's opinion, but it is a much more formal matter. Then, in fact, thousands and thousands of people may also be affected by such a violation, in short, by anyone who has been challenged and challenged by this law. In the Ombudsman's records and also in these numbers, which are then presented to you each year, such a matter is, of course, only known as one case, only as one infringement. There are also concrete cases in our practice, such as in the pension area, such a case has been the case with our success before the Constitutional Court. It may well be that it will also be the case in 2019 when the Ombudsman made a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the so-called Noise Regulation, i.e. a regulation which undoubtedly applies to all the inhabitants of that country. The point is, therefore, that statistics can only be one of the indicators and, as such, does not in itself give any basis for making any definitive conclusions. For this reason too, it is so important that the Ombudsman in his annual reports presents his work in more detail not only in numbers but mainly in words. As far as this figurative word is concerned, I would like to comment immediately on something that has probably raised a number of eyebrows, for the first time, and this is also a novelty in this report compared to the previous years, that in fact we have put at the heart of our reporting a certain selection of particularly vulnerable groups that have addressed us. It is specifically for the elderly, disabled, children, unemployed, religious communities, ethnic and national communities, employees, LGBTI+ members and foreigners. In doing so, it should be noted immediately that this year's choice of vulnerable is certainly not meant to be exhaustive, as certain vulnerable categories are emerging elsewhere in the report, and in particular the choice will undoubtedly change in the coming years. Well, at least in some respects, probably not, those who at least know the area of the elderly, the children and so on know that, with certainty, it is now possible to predict that in the coming year this category will undoubtedly again be recognised as vulnerable in our report. Therefore, it is not a matter of wanting to deny anyone the status of the vulnerable, on the contrary, we can assure you that if there is anywhere in the Ombudsman, we are aware that each of us can be vulnerable in some way, provided that some sufficiently specific circumstances arise. It is therefore only an attempt at some of the most representative representations of the 2019 cases, which, as a common denominator, had a decisive personal situation, such as age or foreign status, and so on. In the rest of the report, we present ours as we have before, according to the type of legal area or procedures. Today there is no doubt that, given the time available and this extent, which I have mentioned many times before, I have now let go here into what the Ombudsman has identified and done in 2019. After all, this is not really the purpose of this presentation, as it is only supposed to be some additional explanation for this recommendation. That is why I would now go over the overall assessment of the Ombudsman of the Council that in the Republic of Slovenia the standard of respect for human rights is relatively high. The emphasis on the word must also be immediately stressed here. Finally, it is clear from this report that there are still many areas in which more needs to be done once more, and perhaps a little less steps forward, so that this standard is even higher, or that everyone will actually receive it forever, which should, of course, be an ideal that we must all aspire to together, at least that is our opinion. If, in fact, I now proceed in this regard with just one such very quick flight of some, according to the Council's assessment, of the particular pivotal content of the report. We have given special attention to the social field. Here, like many others before us, we have also found that poverty is increasing, that it is a multifaceted problem of these social pressures, which, of course, cannot be easily solved overnight or with one move. This is, of course, the case where we refer our recommendations to the authorities for systemic solutions. We have also, in fact, often referred to the issue of institutional protection, in particular older persons. According to our experience, this issue is still very difficult, not only that, it is even deepening. In doing so, we see that the most problematic aspect of this human resources aspect is, it is said, the lack of staff for all these needs for care, assistance and health care of these tenants, who are of course still growing. Although it is possible that the spatial aspect of our experiences is slightly more withdrawn, it is not possible to let it go. Let me just mention that we have also met with various social security institutions, where people were stationed in different corridors and even bathrooms and so on. However, we are also disturbed, according to our assessment, by already overly transparent charging of the services of this institutional protection. For the past 18 years or so, the response of all governments has been to save everything from the long-term care law, but this is not yet, and we are therefore focusing at least on this point on the call for the amendment of the existing Social Protection Act and, of course, on the appropriate amendment of technical standards and other standards for the implementation of these social protection services. We have also warned several times that it would be possible to change only thought and somehow shift to deinstitutionalisation. This is where he was born, where he grew up, where he lived, and where, at least in most cases, he would like to finish his life course, not behind the walls of an institution. Further, as far as the social field is concerned, it is our assessment that there is also a need for systemic harmonisation between at least three laws, namely the Social Protection Act, which regulates the family assistant, the Personal Assistance Act, which establishes the Institute of Personal Assistance, and the law which will regulate long-term care. With the Ombudsman, while we have been warning about the systemic shortcomings of the Family Assistant Institute for 12 years now, we are disappointed that even in this last proposal of the Long-Term Care Act, if it comes when it comes, it does not appear at least once that these recommendations will actually be taken into account. We also assess that the Social Protection Act should be amended in such a way as to define the provision of services for persons after a brain injury has been sustained as a separate social security service, with appropriate human resources and technical conditions, of course. We are also of the opinion that a network of specialised regional centres should be established for the comprehensive treatment of these persons with brain damage. As regards the health sector, which is clearly still in the current area, I would like to point out in particular that since 2005 the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia has warned and continues to point out the longevity of the procedures in which health insurance authorities have decided on health insurance rights. Unfortunately, there seems to be no need for improvement, at least not for them to be satisfied with. Finally, the Health Insurance Office itself states that every year there are a large number of insured persons who receive a decision either late or late. This is most often the case even with a right that defines the insured person's temporary incapacity to work, which concerns both insured persons and employers, and the real problem is two-way. We believe that it is essential that the Health Insurance Office and the competent ministry step together as soon as possible and find appropriate solutions in this area. There are still many opportunities for improvement in the field of rare diseases, as we have seen. For the establishment of a waiting, say, single register of rare non-allegable diseases, which was promised by the end of 2019, but is not yet to be again by the end of 2020. Then there is the preparation of a work plan in the field of rare diseases for the period until 2030 and the establishment of more accessible palliative care, locally viewed, and so on. After the Ombudsman's experience, we have in fact come to the conclusion this year that, in many areas, discrimination against persons with disabilities is increasingly revealed in Slovenia. Many of you may recall, among other things, that we have already pointed out the issue of access to courts and the like. Here we are not carefree to the efforts of the Ministry of Justice, the situation here is improving, we are aware of this, of course there are still some things to be done, but still things seem encouraging, but we are still dealing with such cases, and of course every such case is still too much. However, things in the field of education are far more disturbing. Not only does most of the schools in Ljubljana, but it is also wider across the country, not only do they have access to mobile or long-term sick students, but we have found, among other things, that the Ministry does not even have any specific figures on accessibility from high school facilities, but also public primary schools. Of course, at such a starting point, the situation for such students can be difficult or less clairvoyant than, if not at least, in terms of a set of some possible schools where a student could enroll. You also know that for six years the Ombudsman has pointed to discrimination against disabled students in regard to free cross-border passenger transport. We are pleased that, after Mr Svetina's additional personal engagement with the Minister at the time, you have received an appropriate novelty, which you, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, have also confirmed and thus have done away with a great injustice, which we of course welcome to the Ombudsman. In short, in view of everything that has been said about people with disabilities and also about them in our annual report, we believe that it is more than obvious that we actually need an independent body in Slovenia to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which is somehow expected under current international standards. We are also prepared to take up this mission and duties with the Ombudsman, just as we were prepared to do with the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Prevention of Torture, which will be discussed by colleague Shelih at the second point. Even in the area of unemployed and employees, more and more critical issues remain open. Of course, we all already know the problem of non-payment of contributions, lack of control over payment of salaries, then there is, of course, a surplus of thousands and one way. Here is the comment that we are now at the Ombudsman's point of view that the fight against pre-emption must be one of the country's priorities, it is said that matters are properly regulated by the law and that the prohibitions are properly sanctioned or prescribed by the necessary sanctions. I would, of course, give more words to the children's rights, for obvious reasons. Here I could say that we generally find that different bodies, institutions in the care of children should somehow become more intertwined. We are often under the impression that it is somehow a transfer of responsibility for full respect for the Convention on the Rights of the Child or that it is some sort of heaven-like need to be avoided, if possible, because, of course, it brings a whole bunch of demands with it. We do not want to say that someone does this out of bad faith, far from it, but in practice we often see that this convention is not very often used. There is no secret, however, that even in Slovenia there are children who live in certain families who cannot or do not even want to protect their rights and who are subsequently subjected to various abuses, including in the form of violence, and on this occasion we recommend that a law be adopted as soon as possible to regulate the comprehensive treatment of children and witnesses of crimes in the House for Children – Barnahus. Furthermore, according to our assessment of the current arrangements, when parents are not compensated by the boards for the care of the child for their stay at the hospital, and this is not acceptable to our assessment, these parents should be entitled to compensation for the care of the child throughout their stay at the hospital. At the same time, we believe that the issue of the right to care for a wider family member, not just a smaller one, should be properly addressed. It is also recommended that adequate qualified persons be provided immediately for continuous work with children with autistic spectrum disorder. For this purpose, the accompanying person cannot, in the present sense, be appropriate and not appropriate, this is shown in practice in the fact that his/her job is not systematised, as a result of which one person, another person, is accompanied by such a child, of course, without an escort. It is probably not necessary to explain in particular why this is very problematic or should be unacceptable. And now that these children do not have a permanent companion, some schools even eventually exclude them, parents leave their jobs for home schooling, and pressures are high and many cannot. In the field of children's rights, I cannot go beyond the Ombudsman's Child Protection Institute. In this case, I can say that in 2019, 65 children who were on average 11 years of age were assigned such an advocate. This, we believe, clearly shows that this institution of advocacy is, in fact, two years after its formalization in the Law on the Ombudsman, I well recognize, enforced and not least necessary. I repeat that we have influenced the establishment of such an advocate on as many as 65 children's fates, of course we want to be as positive as possible. Otherwise, opportunities to strengthen the child’s voice were offered elsewhere, and we tried to grab them with both hands. One such example was, for the first time in this annual report, the findings of the 29th National Children's Parliament, which in 2019 passed on the subject of Education and the school system. We recommend that those proposals and conclusions be examined and duly taken into account in their decisions concerning children. This means that we do not only want to strengthen the voice of children, but also the awareness that it is right that children are involved in decision-making processes on the content relating to them. As we have done every year with freedom of expression, at least now I would not lose too many words, but I would particularly like to commend the move of the National Assembly, which adopted its ethical code of conduct for Members and Members this July. Furthermore, the electoral area, this becomes very topical at least periodically, if not in the middle of ever more sporadic, but here we insist that electoral legislation be amended so that persons who are also persons less than 10 days before the elections are unexpectedly either placed in detention, where, after all, the requirement of innocence is still valid, or at the hospital, and so on, to enable them to actually exercise their electoral rights. If we illustrate in a case of life, we also get these initiatives, like a traffic accident three days before the elections, and because he didn't announce or express his intentions to vote in the post office 10 days before the elections, now it's happening that he can't actually vote in the end. We are aware that this is a very sensitive area. The legislator's field to find the right solutions is, of course, wide here, and we want him to find as soon as possible one that will remedy the shortcomings as much as possible. As far as the justice itself is concerned, for once we would say very generally that we are seeing positive developments in the trial at a reasonable time, but of course this does not mean that we are no longer meeting with some individual procedures where matters are being carried on unreasonablely for a long time. Then it's about restricting personal freedom. Here the main two factors are the overcrowding of the prison detention facility, in recent times, we must say, also because of the increase in the number of foreigners there as well as the lack of staff, and in more ways. Thus, not only does the judicial police, whose lack of criminal proceedings are then dismissed in the courts and this then prolongs the judicial proceedings, because it is not possible to ensure that the detainee is escorted to the hearing, but also to the teaching staff. In short, lack of personnel. We also face many challenges in upgrading forensic psychiatry in Slovenia and in addressing people with the most severe mental health problems. In 2019, regrettably, we note that the work of the working group to establish a specialised unit for the treatment of these persons has stalled. Even in this case, there is no doubt that this is a vulnerable category that we have not included in that particular selection of the most vulnerable. In the field of police procedures, again briefly, we have dealt with fewer cases than the year before, so fewer people have turned to us in 2019 in this regard. In principle, we can commend all efforts to resolve complaints about police work. And also in the field of environment and space; and doubtless always a very topical area. Unfortunately, first of all, there is a very black conclusion that none of our 2018 recommendations concerning the Ministry of Environment and Space have been implemented. In particular, we would also like to highlight an inadequate solution to the problem of the Celje Valley and the Mežiški Valley. Nor has the State adopted more concrete legislative amendments to implement the new 70a Article of the Constitution, which defines the right to drinking water. Here is just one shorter excursion in a little bit more, I'll say, a dirty aspect of our work in terms of perceptions, that we usually only deal with Roma, that we only care about Roma and so on. Of course it doesn't. Also in this annual report, you can read about the Ombudsman’s efforts to provide drinking water in non-Romanian, civilian or any other settlement, who wants to say so, so it is specifically Sveti Tomaž, Rogasovce and so on. We also receive very similar insights in the field of foreigners, to work only for some foreign interests, even against Slovenian interests and the like, which is also twisted from the vine. Finally, only if any annual report of the Ombudsman is opened is it quite obvious that, of course, the foreign problem is not disproportionately represented in them. There are, of course, other arguments, such as that, in fact, the Ombudsman has already submitted several constitutional requirements in his 25 years, of which there were only two which dealt with the territory of foreigners. But well, so much now for a quick review of the content that was, I repeat, made only by cases. Of course, there's still a whole bunch of aspects that I've done to them now because I couldn't expose them. In the final part, however, I would only return a little to the figures, namely that the Ombudsman addressed 158 of his recommendations in this annual report to the authorities. It is clear that, of course, we view each of our recommendations as urgent or well-founded and given with a view to ultimately improving only legislation, its implementation in practice or the other business of human beings. We wish, through these recommendations, to contribute, as a society in each case, to all the necessary constitutional and convention standards for the protection of human rights, as well as to the standards for the good management of certain violations that do not reach that level of seriousness, but are still worth the attention and, of course, call for an end. For this reason, we also insist that all those to whom the Ombudsman refers his recommendations for the resolution of such perceived shortcomings will take a more active approach to good faith and to where the recommendation is repeated. I've mentioned some things with a long beard in our history. Here I can further make a recommendation, which we have been repeating for more than 10 years, specifically a recommendation on the preparation of a single provision for the recovery of all contaminated and degraded areas in the country. This time, the government has already prepared its response report to this 2019 annual report and, of course, we appreciate and re-welcome its engagement with the Ombudsman, particularly in the direction of the Ministry of Justice's engagement, as far as the coordination of all this is concerned. Unfortunately, at the same time, we cannot go beyond the fact that only 21 recommendations of the Ombudsman have been implemented according to their self-assessment. Compared to the 158 I mentioned earlier, this is, of course, small or we cannot be satisfied with such a small number, even considering that many of them have been high in the past years, as I have pointed out many times. Of course, we understand that the implementation of our recommendations also takes some time, but as we say, we think the number is a little too small. Finally, with regard to many of the Ombudsman's current recommendations, the National Assembly has also made a recommendation to all at all levels to follow these recommendations of the Ombudsman, and this has not yet happened. Therefore, it can be said that in some ways it is also a matter of disregarding the recommendation of the National Assembly, or now more of these. And not only because of the Ombudsman's recommendations, ladies and gentlemen, they are, we have to admit, the truth is, legally non-binding and can also discuss how things can be resolved, but we need to be particularly concerned when it comes to not all too often being realized even when there is no doubt that the situation is illegal and needs to be remedied. I am talking, of course, about the commitment to respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, among the matters concerning which the Constitutional Court is delayed in the implementation of these decisions are also found the Ombudsman. One such was the Mental Health Act, which was challenged by the Ombudsman and also successfully challenged in one part in which he was also challenged in 2015. And now, for years now, the deadline set by the Constitutional Court to eliminate these contradictions does not yet appear to be very fast. He's going to point out that he's going [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u3	Please finish slowly. Just like that, I'm asking you to step closer to the microphone and speak a little louder because it doesn't sound like anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you. I'm sorry, if I had known sooner, I'd have stepped on it sooner. All right, let me just put it all together in one final thought. Undoubtedly, we are of the Ombudsman’s opinion that there is still much work to be done in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Commission as a parent working body for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and prepared a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Vice-President Lidija Ivanuš to present the report of the Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u6	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! As Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I will present the report to the 25th Annual Report on the work of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The Commission shall meet at its 10th meeting, on 7. Ten. 2020 dealt with the 25th annual report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2019 submitted for consideration by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman. At the beginning of the examination of the material submitted, the Ombudsman received the word. He said it was the guardian's 25th anniversary report. A broader argument is presented for the first time only in electronic form and the report, together with electronic work, is broader than in previous years. Much attention has been paid to the most vulnerable groups of the population, especially their social rights. He listed some statistics concerning the work of the Ombudsman below. Four thousand 600 cases were dealt with, of which 2 thousand 957 initiatives, with 305 violations and other irregularities. Most of the cases involved violations of the principle of good governance, violations of children's rights, undue delay in proceedings, the rule of law and the social state and violations of the right to social protection. These violations were found in 48 different national authorities. The report contains 158 recommendations, some of which have been repeated for more than ten years and such a disregard for the Ombudsman’s care. In 2019, 238 initiatives in the field of social affairs were addressed, and many concerned institutional protection of the elderly. He mentioned some areas that needed to be finally settled, such as the irregular status of a family assistant and some unresolved problems related to disability, Roma and children’s issues. Some facilities of public institutions are still not adapted to the disabled, and the problems of environmental protection remain unresolved. The Ombudsman issued a publication summarizing the work and covering a short report and a set of all the recommendations. They were often in the field and had many conversations with people who for various reasons could not go to the Ombudsman personally. Many institutions and institutions have been visited. They conducted 12 operations outside the seat and held 168 personal talks with the initiators. The implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights is always good, as only 6 outstanding judgments remain, and it is more concerned that 13 important decisions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia are still pending. Finally, the Ombudsman expressed the hope that the authorities to which the recommendations relate would take the implementation of these very seriously. Representatives of the Council of State and representatives of ministries, representative of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality, representative of the Supreme Court, the Office of the State Prosecutor, advocate of the principle of equality. In the ensuing debate, the members and members of the Commission made their views and observations on the content of the report. They expressed regret that every year so many unrealised recommendations of the Ombudsman remained. Members of the Commission also adopted recommendations where the National Assembly recommends to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia in the 25th periodic report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Matico Zupan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice, to present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Respected by both Deputy Ombudsman, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, colleagues from other departments! The annual reports of the Ombudsman are an important contribution to the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms in the Republic of Slovenia. This is because they point out the areas in which we face problems and offer very concrete recommendations to cities for their elimination. I would therefore like to thank the Ombudsman for the efforts he has made with his colleagues to prepare the reports each year. This year, too, the Ministry of Justice coordinated the preparation of a joint response report. As part of this role, we are constantly working at the Ministry to raise awareness of the importance of mutual cooperation. This year we also convened a coordination meeting for the first time in the process of preparing this response report to the Government. We estimate that one of the biggest challenges remains the resolution of those problems that require the coordination and cooperation of a large number of resources, says where the problem is not just one. The Joint Response Report, which includes a response to the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism, will take place at the next item in today's agenda, was confirmed by the Government at its 34th regular meeting on 30 September this year, in view of the responses provided by the authorities. Since this government response report is based on the self-assessment of the Ministry and government services, progress has been made in implementing the recommendations of the Ombudsman's 2018 report. Of the 83 recommendations made in last year's report to the Ombudsman concerning the Government, five recommendations were further implemented during the last reporting period, which means that the total number of recommendations implemented was 2018 15. 22 recommendations have been partially implemented, 3 more than last year, the number of unrealised recommendations has dropped from 24 to 11. For 2019, the Ombudsman made 147 recommendations relating to the Government and, according to the content, mainly concern the problems of poverty and leprosy, the longevity of procedures in determining the situation of foreigners, the enforcement of decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, where progress is observed by the Ombudsman, the lack of accessible public institutions for persons with disabilities, Roma issues, water supply issues, prison congestion, environmental problems and could also be listed. Of these 147 recommendations, 21 recommendations have been made, 40 have been partially implemented, 35 have not been implemented, and 33 are a permanent task. In this 2019 annual report, the Ombudsman also invited the Government to further explain the reasons for the non-implementation of the recommendations made in previous reports for which the Ombudsman considers that they have not been taken into account. This is a total of 121 recommendations made between 2011 and 2018. The government followed the Ombudsman's initiative by assessing the implementation of the recommendations made in the past at the time of this year's reporting. 30 recommendations have already been implemented, 35 have been partially implemented, 18 have not been implemented, 16 are permanent tasks and 22 have been rejected. Before I conclude, I would like to highlight some more positive examples of the implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, which can be found in the Government's joint response report. This year, the Government endorsed the text of the Law on the Treatment of Children and Youth with Emotional and Behavioral Problems and Disorders in Education and Education, which will establish a systematic solution to their integrated treatment. In accordance with the Ombudsman’s recommendation, a tax relief was also recognised for the survival of family members of the taxpayer, parents and adoptive parents, whether they live with the debtor in a joint household or in institutional protection. In coordination with the Ministry of Justice, a proposal for a law on the integrated treatment of children who are victims and witnesses of crime was also prepared in the so-called Children's House. The law has already undergone the first coordination and has received very broad support from the professional public. The Ministry of Labour has joined the MAPA project, which aims to gain a comprehensive and multi-disciplinary view of the state of luxury in Slovenia. The project is in its final stage and proposals will be drawn up on the basis of which to limit the negative effects of leniency. In order not to be too long, I also have representatives of other government departments with me today, and if any further explanation is needed from a particular area, you will get it. Thank you, so much introductory.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Party and Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear congregation, hello! In Levica they only carefully examined the 25th, jubilee, report of the Ombudsman. For him first, we want to express our thanks and our full support to the Ombudsman for the new recommendations. At the same time, however, we are also concerned that previous recommendations are being poorly implemented and not implemented. As it is understood, the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities is the first to be unresponsive again, which we truly regret. In 2019, the Ombudsman found 305 violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms in 45 bodies, so far mostly with the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities – 63 followed by local self-government with 19 and courts with 18. In 2019, he dealt with 119 cases less than a year before, i.e. a 2.5% reduction. In the 2019 report, the Ombudsman made a large number of recommendations – 158. The report looks at the functioning of the public authorities and the findings are tangible. Over the years, the lack of response of individual ministries and other bodies and the poor implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations, which are drawn from year to year, have been repeated. This time, the Ombudsman proposes to explain in the response report the reasons why past recommendations have not been implemented and to ensure that the competent authorities remedy the unconstitutionalities identified by the decisions of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible and implement the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights against Slovenia in a timely manner. In Levica we note that after so many years of disregarding the recommendations, the Ombudsman's calls are already acting as begging and the lack of response of authority as a pompous and pure ignorance. Importantly, the Ombudsman warned of the role of the second generation of human rights, namely economic, social and cultural rights, as an equivalent part of first generation human rights rights rights, i.e. civil and political rights. We agree with the Ombudsman that their realization is often less transparent, so we respect the Ombudsman's warning that Slovenia has not yet ratified the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The Convention on Human Rights is intended primarily for the protection of the rights of the first generation and is missing the economic, cultural and social dimension. We are concerned that the Ombudsman reiterates that the legal and municipal irregularities of Roma settlements continue to threaten the realization of the human and special rights of the Roma community. We are pleased that the Ombudsman recommends that the Inter-Ministerial Working Group study the legal recognition of sex finish its work already in 2020 and that the competent ministry draw up a bill in the same year to regulate the legal recognition of sex, as we have pointed out several times in Levica. Discrimination against people with disabilities is increasingly evident. This has the worst impact on their employability, access to a built environment and public areas, access to blind and visually impaired television programs and so on. It even turned out that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not have a number on the accessibility of primary and secondary schools. In Levica we note the poor situation in the asylum home, which the Ombudsman also visited and found more irregularities in the work of police officers, such as issuing detention decisions, asking questions about the rights of detainees and so on. Further attention was also paid by the Ombudsman in 2019 to the treatment of unaccompanied minors in police procedures. Regrettably, the recommendation on the preparation of a system solution for the proper accommodation of unaccompanied minors and the adoption of measures to respect the greatest benefit of minors, including by placing them in suitable institutions instead of the Centre for Foreigners, has not been implemented. The problem of the poverty of the elderly is particularly highlighted in Levika, which is higher among the elderly than among the rest of the population. At the beginning of 2019, there were 268 thousand people living in Slovenia, including 89 thousand pensioners. We warn that although poverty in the grave is declining, this is not the case with pensioners. It stays the same or even increases. We believe that the root cause of poverty in pensioners is, of course, a low pension. The poverty of older women also stems from the wage inequality, the wage gap seen in the gender pay gap, which continues into the pension gap. The vast majority of the elderly do not even know the possibility of exercising the right to a protective allowance. The Ombudsman also calls on the Government to provide affordable services to the elderly and the disabled so that they can exercise the right to self-reliance and inclusion in their communities, as well as measures to regulate the area of long-term care. With regard to pension insurance or the recognition of the period of employment acquired, the Ombudsman notes that there is no legal basis for distinguishing between the PSPIs which have accumulated the period and those who have been voluntarily involved in pension insurance. In Levica, we also believe that the particular issue of practical forms of employment is an acute one, where we also think of various forms of self-employment that do not bring social and economic security and lead to the threat of individuals, individuals and their families. We are therefore pleased that the Ombudsman recommends to the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and the same opportunity to legally define the criminality and ban criminal relations, while also laying down sanctions for violations of this prohibition. It also recommends that the Government consider the possibilities for addressing and preventing all forms of bullying and torture in the workplace and authorize one authority to do so. The report takes into account vulnerable groups, unemployed people, children, disabled persons, elderly people, religious communities, national and ethnic communities and foreigners, and the problem of multiple discrimination where an individual is discriminated against on the basis of several personal circumstances at the same time, such as children with disabilities, older women, Roma children. This situation is often not taken into account in the work of the various authorities, although the Protection against Discrimination Act defines this form of discrimination as a worse form. In Levica, we strongly support the recommendation of the Ombudsman to the Ministry of Health, in amending the Health and Health Insurance Act, that compensation be paid to the parents of the hospitalized child as soon as possible, so that the parents whose children are hospitalized will be entitled to compensation for the care of the child as long as they accompany the child to the hospital. In the area of domestic violence, the Ombudsman dealt with more applications than in previous years, and the increase is worth all concern. Although legislation on domestic violence and violence against women is relatively good, legislation alone is not sufficient. There is a need for more training of professional staff in different institutions in order for legislation to be implemented as well. We also draw attention to the problem of children, victims of violence and sexual violence caused by parents, and the problem of femicide, which is completely silent. We will support the 25th Ombudsman's report in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u11	The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Andrej Černigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman Mr. Miha Horvat and Mr. Ivan Shelih, House of Respect! The Office of the Ombudsman has been operating for 25 years and we are currently considering the report in the temple of democracy. On this silver anniversary of the office and today's presentation of the 25th regular report, we sincerely congratulate you on behalf of the New Slovenia - Christian Democrats. Since two reports of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia are presented by the Deputy Ombudsman in the National Assembly today, I will present the position of the parliamentary group towards both. The mission of the Ombudsman is to protect the dignity of every human being in the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore the task of the Office to exercise control over the conduct of all branches of power in our country and of any interference with human rights and fundamental freedoms of individuals. Performance indicators of 2 000 628 input documents, 9 000 613 output documents and more than 9 000 500 calls in 2019 show that although we had a record budget in Slovenia, problems still exist and as a country we still have a lot of work to do, since the Ombudsman's report on 2 000 957 initiatives and 158 recommendations. In New Slovenia - Christian Democrats, we welcome the reports of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia, while at the same time seeking to implement the Ombudsman's recommendations as soon as possible, despite the inconceivable dimension of the invisible enemy covid-19 and the self-dismantling of the former government. We are proud of the work of Minister Janez Cigler King, who with his team solves the problem of the elderly in the Republic of Slovenia. The last home for the elderly was built in Slovenia in 2008 when the competent department was headed by a minister from Nova Slovenije. With hard work, we Christian Democrats will also take care of the new homes of the elderly in this government, namely, we have committed ourselves to building five new homes in the coalition treaty. The improvement of the staffing situation in the homes of older citizens has been markedly poor due to the neglect of this area over the past 20 years. The current government and Minister of New Slovenia have provided an additional EUR 30 million. We have not been intimidated by the challenges, so we support the transition from institutional to community services, where the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities has spent a good 21 million in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia to provide daily forms of protection for persons over 65 years of age. As a society, we must strive for the independent life of the elderly with the support of local and local communities. In Nova Slovenija we are aware of the long-standing question related to a family assistant or assistant. Family members who take care of a security guard in a loving and domestic way are underpaid and underpaid. That is why we look forward to the promise of the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities and Minister Cigler of the King that solutions will be sought within six months. Christian Democrats advocate freedom of expression, which has a special place in the report. We agree with the claim that it is our right to express our opinion, but at the same time our duty to express it in a dignified manner. We are very concerned that the ethics of the public word have lost meaning right here in the temple of democracy. It saddens us that although we have adopted the Code of Ethics for the conduct of Members and Members, there are Members among us, who, on a planned, repeated and unconvincing basis, continue to share the Slovenian public with their example. So we were all witnesses when in this space, after the Latin agora, where political life is going on, the verbal confrontation turned into force and vandalism. The second report, prepared by the Ombudsman for 12 years, has been implemented by the Office in the field of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and other cruel inhuman or degrading punishment or treatment. Introduces us to the report that, in particular, the institutions visited are successfully trying to adopt the proposed recommendations and are ready for cooperation and improvement. We are also aware that some necessary systemic changes will also be necessary here. The finding that the National Preventive Mechanism has not identified any cases of torture or other cruel punishment or behaviour at all its visits shows a high level of respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia. However, we are aware that further efforts will have to be made in the area of work with demented persons. We welcome the report, which is designed and designed in a slightly fresher way, and above all, faster-looking material is available to the reader in such a form. We support the decision for a shorter and longer electronic version, as this also actively protects and preserves the environment. In New Slovenia – Christian Democrats we are pleased that the fifth Ombudsman is a special teacher and a human competence and rich work experience. With your work, you excuse our support and the highest support of Members of the National Assembly for last year's appointment. Finally, the Group is pleased that the Ombudsman notes in the report that the standard of human rights is relatively high, but we are all aware that there is always room for improvement. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we believe that respect for human rights in the Republic of Slovenia should not be negotiated. That's why we'll be supporting both reports. At the same time, we wish you a successful work for the end, and as soon as possible the resolution of the injustices found in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Allow me to begin by thanking the Ombudsman, who, through his activities, restricts the power of self-voluntary power in interfering with human rights and fundamental freedoms, for his work and for the consistent, informative and accurate report that sets the mirror for our society. While the report shows that we have moved forward in Slovenia in some areas, there are still too many matters that the Ombudsman warns about from year to year. Problems in the field of disability care, pension issues, health care, which do not show any mention of valuable progress, are these areas. The rate of poverty is also high and we have not been able to limit it. The problem of poverty most concerns the elderly, who are expected to be particularly concerned in the solidarity community. The pressures experienced by older ones due to loneliness and exclusion are all too often heard. In the SAB, we want every pensioner to be able to pay care at home or at home and quietly spend the fall of his life; this would also relieve the present and future working generation. In the SAB Group, we believe that the provision of long-term care at the legal level would alleviate a number of hardships, so we join the Ombudsman's calls to regulate this area. A law that will definitively regulate the area of long - term care, personal assistance, and long - term care insurance is one of those we wait for too long. We have been talking about the Long-Term Supply Act, which would define and simplify the system of services and measures intended for persons who, for various reasons, have been dependent on the assistance of other persons in carrying out basic and supporting daily tasks for 15 years. It is unacceptable that we currently do not have a comprehensive system of long-term care. Long-term care, remuneration and financing are covered by healthcare structures, social and parental protection, pensions and invalidity pensions, and each of these forms is covered by specific legislation. Long-term care services are thus provided in the form of various public benefits aimed at addressing long-term care needs. The situation really isn't satisfactory. In particular, all these problems, including the covid-19 epidemic and the crisis that we are looking forward to, remain more than current. Moreover, we believe that the epidemic has exposed the additional shortcomings of our social and health systems. We therefore agree with the Ombudsman's warnings in the field of health. The Ombudsman himself would have added to last year's warnings when there was no covida-19 to the current epidemiological situation and increasingly poor access to health services. The area of accessibility is one of the critical points of the health and health system in general. Problems begin at the primary level, which means that patients do not enter the treatment at all. The number of diagnosed cancer patients decreased by a third from April to today, but unfortunately not because the situation would improve in the area of cancer, but because patients do not get a diagnosis at all. Before I finish, I will touch on the importance of the ethics of the public word. The times that are coming and we are witnesses to them bring uncertainty, distress, and stress into our lives. It is not easy for many people to express their dissatisfaction in a variety of ways, including insulting ones. And there are also many public figures from the world of politics. We must be aware that every right, including the right to freedom of expression, ends where the right of someone else begins. The Ombudsman recognises the legitimate right of everyone to express his or her opinion, but the Ombudsman also has the duty to express his or her opinion in a dignified manner. Therefore, we urge, be patient and respectful, for the way communication reflects the level of culture of a community, a society. If I can sum it up. We have successfully faced many challenges, but many are still ahead of us. I hope and wish that the next report of the Ombudsman will be shorter and the debate will take place in steps we have taken to ensure that people in this country live and live in a better and better quality, without major violations of human rights and freedoms. However, we continue to wish the Ombudsman a successful job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Government, the Guardian of Human Rights, colleagues and colleagues, all of them a nice greeting! The Constitution in the Republic of Slovenia lays down human rights and fundamental freedoms. Equality between the law, the inviolability of human life, the protection of personal freedom, the prohibition of torture, freedom of movement, the right to health care, education and education and many other rights must be guaranteed to each individual. In Slovenia we treat each individual equally, regardless of his nationality, race, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, material condition, education, birth, social status, disability or any other circumstance. In the Desus Group, we are pleased with the transparency and detail of the 25th annual report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019 and the additional summary on the work of the Ombudsman, which briefly highlights the problem in our Slovenian society. Unfortunately, the report shows that we continue to face many recurring challenges constantly in Slovenia. The most vulnerable groups of the population, the elderly, the unemployed, the children, religious and various ethical communities and other groups that still require additional care are at the centre of attention. The number of violations identified by the Ombudsman is still large, up to 305 infringements of the rights caused by 48 different authorities. Unfortunately, these violations also involved children’s rights, the rights of disabled persons and the challenges faced by the elderly. The Ombudsman also made 158 recommendations, as they have been repeated for some years. In the Desus Group, we have paid particular attention to the area of social affairs and the protection of older persons. Even though the main theme of the various political parties has not improved, the problems of the elderly have not improved, especially in the homes of the elderly, where they are facing a lack of staff, resulting in a deterioration of living conditions. The Ombudsman has made a special commitment to the adoption of long-term care measures and appropriate staff standards in nursing homes. In the Desus Group, we are pleased to have made a great move in the coalition to adopt the Long-Term Care Act. We are aware that the path to a final solution is still long and thorny, but these first steps are always the most important. Therefore, it is appropriate to commend the Minister of Health and his team, who are also working on the Long-Term Care Act when dealing with the Coronary Epidemic Day. Unfortunately, however, we are monitoring an increasing presence of discrimination against persons with disabilities. The basic activities that are self-sustaining to us are often disabled by people with disabilities. Thus, physical accessibility to courts and basic educational institutions continue to be a visible problem. It should be noted that some of the Ombudsman’s recommendations have been received or received with their epilogue. However, we are aware that many recommendations will also be heard this year. The slow work of the authorities and the unreasonable long treatment with the excesses of all reasonable marriages lead too often to senselessly long bureaucratic complications. The basic principle that Slovenia is a legal and social state is still too often violated. But progress is visible and we must also show good. In the Desus Group we therefore recognize the great work done by the Ombudsman in recent years. It is precisely his initiatives and his warning of the injustice that reminds us that, as a country, we must work again and again to improve the situation. Therefore, we hope that it will not only be for the well-intentionedness of the written and the promise of every once-in-a-lifetime authority after the improvement of the situation. In the Desus Group, we are pleased with the thorough report and the work done by the Ombudsman. Every year you can see the greater visibility of the work and the importance of the Ombudsman in public. His reports must be a reminder to all of us that we must work harder for our fellow man. Mr Guardian, I wish you and your team, on behalf of the Desus Group, all well, and I hope that you will continue to do your work with the kind of zeal that you have shown in your first year of operation. But I also want you to become active as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Dušan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u18	Good afternoon, everyone! In 2019, there were new recommendations 158, and the question is whether the competent authorities will take them seriously enough or not, as we can see that several recommendations have been made since 2013. We can imagine that 13 decisions of the Constitutional Court remain unfulfilled. In the area of Roma issues, I will not lose words, for until today we have not received an explanation of what money is meant for, even though we requested an explanation on the subcommittee more than a year ago. As with the Roma, the Ombudsman also has different perceptions about foreigners, migrants, because he has too much interest in them, since it protects foreign interests more than the Slovenian ones. First of all, we need to take care of our country and our citizens and citizens, vulnerable groups, including the elderly, the disabled, the children. It's ridiculous to see what a weekly menu the migrants have and what our elderly eat at the DSO. Shame on us. In practice, there is another pressing problem, namely the longevity of decision-making procedures. Among others, he also dealt with the eternal theme of applying for residence. We also addressed a written question to the Government concerning records of administrative units in the Slovenian National Party on this subject. We will continue to explore this situation in our society. Recently, in Posav, where I come from, an address in Krška revealed that 256 foreigners have been reported, which is a record, and that is no exception. More than 12 to 20 foreigners have also been reported in various houses. It is unacceptable that this serves them as a stepping stone for working in Slovenia, the European Union and for certain social transfers. I appeal to you that the latter should end once and for all and have the competent inspectorate start working. It is evident that the Ombudsman did little outside of the seat, visiting some homes for elderly, protective work centres, training, work and protection institutions. Apparently, he wasn't there because the police don't. I have in mind examples of visits to Romani places. A maximum of 63 out of 305 detected violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms or other irregularities have been identified by the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities. The Ombudsman also committed himself to taking measures for long-term care, which is already being populistally disseminated, as well as for appropriate staff standards in the homes, which is essential in particular during covida-19. For sub-programmes, the Ombudsman spent 2 million 828 thousand 403 euros, of which 8 thousand 62 euros were spent in cooperation with NGOs. We think it's a waste of taxpayer money. The main focus of the problems of our prisons and their departments remains overcrowding, including a significant increase in the number of foreigners that are being treated with additional problems and lack of staff in all areas of work, safety and of course costs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u20	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. All in attendance, all in attendance! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Un cordiale saluto and tutti and presenti! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! The Ombudsman has an extremely important role to play in overseeing the protection of indigenous national communities, their position and special rights at national level and in the areas of the municipalities in which the said national communities live. Only through a comprehensive control system can the gap between the normative acts of protection of indigenous national communities and their members be addressed and the implementation of these decisions in everyday life be realized. In the parliamentary group, we are pleased with the cooperation of the Ombudsman with indigenous national communities and their members, as is evident from his annual reports. In the 25th Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019, we welcome the cases and recommendations on the implementation of the specific rights of indigenous national communities in the field of official use and the public use of languages in national communities in the area of municipalities where indigenous national communities live and the use of symbols of national communities in these areas. The example of the Kohorje district unit of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance is symptomatic for the entire state administration, local self-government, justice and the rest of the public sector. The forms most frequently annexed to the regulations are not bilingual. Slovenian forms, unfortunately only some, are translated into Italian and Hungarian, which is contrary to the Constitution. The Constitutional Court expressly ruled in its decision 2006 that Italian and Hungarian were not to be used as a translation in Slovenian, but that the law should provide for the direct use of both languages. In short, all forms annexed to the sub-laws must be bilingual and on the same list. These should still be available to users in the framework of e-business and at offices and institutions. The official and equal use of the Italian and Hungarian languages in judicial proceedings in the courts of the regional municipalities in which both national communities live is strong. The third recommendation follows the multi-annual initiatives of indigenous national communities in the areas of municipalities where indigenous national communities live, in accordance with the law, in addition to the flag of the Republic of Slovenia, the flag of the indigenous national community for the marking of all activities of the state authorities, the authorities of the self-government local communities and other persons of public law. The Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group sincerely thanks the Ombudsman for his special attention in overseeing the implementation of the protection of indigenous national communities in the Republic of Slovenia and wants a good and successful work ahead. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u22	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Messengers and Members, nice greetings! First of all, I would like to commend the work and report of the Ombudsman for 2019. The report you submitted this year is clear, comprehensive and systematic. Based on it, based on your presentation, we can easily create an image of the current state of our society. With regard to the unfulfilled past recommendations of the Ombudsman, it should be pointed out that some areas of the Ombudsman's report are so complex that it is necessary to correct the injustices of all vulnerable groups by systematically amending the sectoral legislation, which requires a lot of professional and political effort as well as time. In the SDS Group, we are very well aware of this and, with our proposals, we have always sought to ensure that human rights violations in all areas are fixed as soon as possible or that they do not even occur. To a worrying increase, I stress that a wide variety of and multifaceted poverty has certainly contributed to the systemic failure of the competent authorities and their poor and weak cooperation between the ministries, which the Ombudsman particularly points out. As a result, past recommendations are not implemented. This year, the Ombudsman makes as many as 158 new recommendations, indicating that we are facing significant changes and challenges as a society. The emphasis on multifacetedness and diversity of poverty does not merely mean a lack of money for a day-to-day decent survival, but especially in recent times it has been reflected in the gross misunderstanding and circumvention of certain basic principles of the rule of law and the social state, in a marked lack of a sense of law, justice, morality and respect for the fellow man, which in itself necessarily leads to a lack of respect for human fundamental rights. And there haven't been a lot of cases like this lately. This spiritual and mental poverty is reflected in intergenerational and mutual non-solidarity, which is particularly pronounced and noticeable at the time of covida-19, when a certain part of the population, with its carefree, reckless and irresponsible conduct, threatens the most vulnerable population. It appears in public media supported opposition to the introduction of an electronic application designed to limit the spread of the virus. It appears in violation of the basic principles of the rule of law that there is a reasonable doubt in the independence of the judiciary, which decides on the alleged rights of individuals without their request, while deliberately interfering with the existing rights of other individuals; in conscious and deliberate opposition to solutions that support Slovenian tourism and the economy; in clientism, nepotism and non-professional recruitment; in bankruptcy legislation adapted to economic social elites, which, in decades of rule, has inevitably led to a lack of jobs for young people, to a working active population that is likely to be at least as socially threatened today, if not more than the people with disabilities and to work incapable persons. As a result, the Ombudsman constantly reminds us that social transfers do not all too often reach those who really need them, of course, completely in place. Of course, the implementation of recommendations in all social areas requires fundamental systemic changes, the beginning and the end of which, in fact, represent each individual in our society, his way of thinking about the human being, his openness to diversity, to others, and, above all, in every context, a great deal of respect in communication, media communication and so on. For we have come to a point where professional and political solutions cannot be achieved because of the inability to communicate with one another, to reach compromises, to negotiate, to pursue solutions and goals that often go beyond party division. Law and law, in the form of judicial decisions, always inevitably reflect the state of society in general. If we do not see the value of social co-existence in respect of the laws, if they are not implemented in accordance with the Constitution and international treaties, then there is an urgent violation of human rights, which is reflected in the lost actions before the European Court of Human Rights and also in the failure to implement the judgments of the European Court and certain constitutional decisions. The Republic of Slovenia has already lost at least 250 cases before the ECHR, which at transnational level is evidence of the failure of the rule of law. In its report, the Ombudsman underlines the importance of respecting economic, social and cultural rights and solidarity and collective rights as rights equivalent to civil and political rights. In the context of recent vulnerable groups with regard to migration policy, special attention has been paid to foreigners arriving in Slovenia in large migratory flows. In addition to the drastic increase in sexual assaults, rapes, robberies and other criminal acts that are growing in Europe due to immigrants from North Africa and the Middle East, particularly Morocco and Afghanistan, it is particularly important to protect the domestic labour market when it comes to employment in Slovenia. Equally important is the concern for public health and safety, the protection of our southern border and the prevention of illegal migration, which we have been paying special attention to all the time. All this in order to protect within our borders other vulnerable groups such as women, children, the elderly, the disabled, and ultimately the unemployed and the workers. In view of the perception of migrants who do not recognise any authority, respect or obey the police, but are afraid of soldiers, it would be necessary and imperative to place the Slovenian Army in order to relieve the police and effectively protect the state border. With regard to the problem of non-response or even non-response of the executive authorities, where the Ombudsman has most often detected an infringement, this problem is, of course, part of the principle of good governance, which also falls within the context of illegal and non-professional recruitment. In this way, in the operational part of the state administration, we get staff who are not mature in their work and duties because of the way in which they were employed, committed either to family or to the political instructions or instructions of certain social subgroups. Therefore, it is not excluded that certain requests, letters, requests of the Ombudsman are not answered, because they either do not know them or because they do not want to respond to them, because of the principle of autonomy in determining them, they are, unfortunately, also allowed to do so. In doing so, it is particularly worrying that these inactions are paid from taxpayers' money. Let me mention, however, where this is also happening in disability organisations. One such case was FIHO, where a police investigation came about because of the non-repressive way in which Elena Pečarič was employed. FIHO is a fund dedicated to the financing of disability and humanitarian organisations, which each year allocates as much as EUR 20 million and has been exposed to corrupt risks for decades. Leadership and employee infringements repeat and persist in disputed practice. This has already been noted by the KPK, which points out that such allocation of money for disabled and humanitarian organisations is non-transparent, discriminatory and arbitrary. The police are also involved in this case. In the area of employment, there are forms of detention and their limitations are largely linked to the taxation of wages, which must be addressed in the context of the amendment of tax legislation. However, excessive restrictions on criminal employment would lead to greater unemployment in the extreme, and these measures should therefore be treated with caution. Furthermore, bullying and harassment in the workplace is certainly one of the more pressing problems, and the Ombudsman rightly warns them, but this is part of a broader problem of non-professional and non-visitive recruitment, which makes individual employees feel more valuable, protected and psychological and sometimes physical violence compared to their colleagues. This should be given more attention in the future. Once this systemic solution is resolved, it will solve in itself a number of other problems in the area of unemployment, especially youth-friendly jobs and the like. In the area of dealing with persons with special needs, i.e. disabled, blind, visually impaired or otherwise mobile persons, all citizens need to be addressed in the future and until now in the direction of ensuring access to all courts and schools. In accordance with the Ombudsman's proposal, consideration should be given to the possibility of assigning the task of an independent body to promote the protection and monitoring of the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 33 of this Convention of the Ombudsman. As regards the Roma issue, we believe that Roma already have the right to be equal in all things with the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, if not even in certain segments privileged as a special group. However, we observe social inadequacy, often violent and harmful events, and often violations of public order and peace on their part. Let me just set up a way to cash in tourist vouchers, we know the cases of thefts of money and objects by tourist accommodations, such acts are very large, and the police often intervene. It also happens that Roma in the area of Roma settlements threaten the indigenous population and so on. The situation in Slovenian prisons is improving. In the building is a new man prison in Dobrinje near Ljubljana and the reconstruction of a women's prison on Ig. However, in the area of criminality, I must stress in particular the growing number of illegal border crossings, which is linked both to the non-professional trial of the Administrative Court, which issues judgments that do not in practice drink water, and to the continued obstruction of the opposition, which has so far suppressed every attempt to put an army on the border. Thus, 120 to 140% of the congestion of Slovenian prisons is, in fact, largely due to unjustified and public security-prohibiting criminal activity in the form of illegal Schengen crossings, which the opposition obviously does not mind or even favour. Public security concerns all of us, so special attention should be paid to the Ombudsman's recommendation No 28, namely the regular provision of all necessary resources for working in the Slovenian Army. In order to fulfil this obligation, the Minister of Defence is the regular target of the opposition's attacks, last but not least in connection with the purchase of armoured personnel and some others, the Slovenian Army urgently needed equipment. The defence function is, in addition to the foreign policy, the most fundamental function of the state, which is to be understood and dealt with appropriately. It is not only the purchase of armoured personnel, but it is the purchase of all the necessary equipment that allows our citizens who perform military service in a professional and contractual manner to be adequately secured and provided with basic working conditions. The whole report contains a lot of speeches on the prohibition of discrimination and hate speech, so it is all the more unclear why neither the Ombudsman nor the prosecution nor the other law enforcement authorities have reacted and still do not respond to the citation, transparency, posters and recordings where the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is threatened with death, where members of the SDS party are always compared with Janšists, compared with fascists and so on. The inscriptions Death of Janshism are allowed peacefully across the city of Ljubljana. All of this means nothing more than discrimination based on political conviction and hate speech directed directly at state leadership and members of the largest coalition party. Once again, I would like to point out that there is no prosecution at the time of the above-mentioned proceedings, and even less so do they receive a judicial epilogue at any time. This is an obvious violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms as set out in Article 14 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and this is equality before the law irrespective of political conviction. The fact is that, at the time of the Ombudsman's report last year, a fellow Member, Eva Irgl, pointed out that the Constitution and laws in that country do not all apply equally to the use of double criteria in the treatment of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to abuse the institutions of prosecution of the crime under official responsibility and thus support the media and social persecution of citizens solely and solely because of their political definition. Moreover, it is allowed and it is obvious that it has already become a legitimate insult to members of the SDS party through social networks, all of which fall within the category of ethics, public words which the Ombudsman points out in his report. To conclude, I welcome your support for vulnerable groups, but I note, and there are also generally well-known facts that the ratings already received by these groups are also being misused. At this point, however, a judicial system should be in place, which, as it is said, does not work or acts selectively and even unlawfully. Only in the case of an illegal court decision is the decision to suspend the appointment of new RTV Slovenia supervisors, where the Administrative Court ruled in a statement on the alleged right of two RTV controllers who did not request anything from the court, which therefore did not submit an application, and which was designated as a party of interest. Here I should point out that membership in the supervisory board of the public institution is not a right, but the legal interest of an individual. It violates at least a thousand years old fundamental principle that there is no judge without a defendant. As long as we do not have a legal judiciary, we have no one to protect the guardians of the legal order, no one to control the implementation of employment invitations, the way of employment, the skills of the staff. If this system were to operate and employ a professionally capable, loyal and responsible staff and exercise appropriate control over it, there would be no delay in decision-making, non-professional decision-making in public administration and in general. With the proposed and well-founded amendments and improvements to sectoral legislation, which we will be working intensively at this time, we will improve legislation, but until this legislation is politically and ideologically used even by the courts, which should be independent, impartial and so on. We're not going to do much with that. We therefore support the Ombudsman's efforts, as stated in the 2019 report, while at the same time urging him to in future also to detain perpetrators and behaviours that measure directly against discrimination and hate speech against coalition parties and their members because of their political conviction and to condemn the abuse of the judiciary and the principle of independence and independence of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group will be presented by Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Representatives of the Ombudsman, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In its 2019 report, the Ombudsman notes that the standard of respect for human rights in Slovenia is high. However, there are still many areas in which we need to take a step forward so that this standard can be felt by each of us and, above all, that no vulnerable social group is excluded or in any way deprived. We would like to see the Ombudsman in his future report, according to the 2020 report, see that the situation is improving further. However, in the Marjan Šarc Letter of recent times, unfortunately, we must often warn that all human rights are equally important and that even at the time in which we are, we should not give one human rights priority to another. Restricting the right in the crisis is to a certain extent permissible, but only under certain conditions. This should always be proportionate and therefore there should be a clear legal basis. Infringements to human rights and fundamental freedoms, which are deemed to be truly necessary in view of the epidemiological situation, should indeed be well thought out, weighed and duly reinforced. Above all, much more effort should be made to convince the public that it is not about reducing human rights, but about the adult awareness that we can also win the epidemic as a responsible society. Instead, we are concerned about some measures that only help to reduce the scope of individual rights. It would not be right for Slovenia to find itself among countries that restrict human rights disproportionately because of certain measures. The country should by no means give the impression that citizens must choose between health and human rights, which have been difficult to combat in history. We are aware that the situation everywhere is difficult and requires appropriate action, but everything that has been going on in recent months is contrary to the very essence of human rights and the Convention on Human Rights alone. If I return to the 2019 report, the Ombudsman found 305 violations of rights and other irregularities in 48 different bodies in his report last year. It contains 158 recommendations which are not legally binding, but their implementation is a good indicator of how the government, individual state authorities and their representatives work and strive to respect human rights and fundamental freedoms. Unfortunately, some recommendations have been repeated for more than 10 years. In the report for last year, there are also complete or partially unreported past reports for more than 200. Some have been dragged since 2013 and are still up to date because certain competent authorities have not taken them seriously enough. The Ombudsman shall ensure that public authorities and institutions act in accordance with respect for and protection of human rights and freedoms. Its recommendations therefore need to be taken seriously, above all non-participating divisions and day-to-day political divisiveness. Human rights are universal and are defined by birth and belong to all, regardless of race, sex, national or ethical affiliation, language, religion or any other personal circumstance. However, it is crucial that we do not distinguish between different categories of human rights violations, but address everything properly and sufficiently. I would not like to repeat what is written on 250 pages of the report, I will point out just a few of the most important points of focus identified in 2019. Precautionary - this is clearly becoming an acceptable form of employment for some, which is still encouraged by the country’s failure to act. One such tranq is also a family helper. Unfortunately, though, their voice is too loud and they have no rights, even though 24 hours a year are available to provide assistance to needed family members. Last Friday, the Commission's fairs on petitions, human rights and equal opportunities were also cited, and I hope that the situation in this area will finally be resolved. There is also a need to mention the concern about the future of young people who often renounce their rights or are forced by social conditions to accept work under conditions that are not in line with the standards of protection of workers' rights. The situation in nursing homes continues to deteriorate due to lack of staff. The issue of protection, in particular the elderly, continues to be scalding and deepening. Unfortunately, there is still a current problem of non-payment of social security contributions and insufficient control over pay payments. In the case of the unemployed, however, several cases dealt with related to the problems of disabled persons in finding suitable employment. Access to courts for persons with disabilities is still not regulated, and difficulties in ensuring access to public schools for physically disabled and long-term sick students are also expected. In the field of child rights, the implementation of the Family Code and the Unfair Procedure Act continues to require more experts in the clinical psychology of children and adolescents. An expert is expected in a federal procedure, according to the Ombudsman, from half to one year, which is unacceptable. However, under this item of the agenda, I would like to stress the satisfaction of our Group that, in carrying out the functions of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading and Criminal Crime, the Ombudsman has also not identified cases of torture or other cruel conduct in 2019. However, it is necessary to recognize the dangers that problems such as overcrowding of social security institutions, prison institutions or non-implementation of recommendations relating to, for example, psychiatric hospitals pose a threat to the emergence of inhuman and degrading behaviour. In this place, I would also like to thank the Ombudsman for the report prepared and for each debate, for the debate on the current state of human rights in the Republic of Slovenia, which I believe is really necessary in these difficult times. Only through cooperation and integration, but above all with humanity can we be successful in realizing respect for human rights, dignity, the rule of law, justice and equality and non-discrimination. Therefore, as already mentioned, there should be no room here for party division and day-to-day political divisiveness, even in the times we are in. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we will support both proposals for recommendations.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Meira Hot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Honorable Deputy, Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! When we discussed the Ombudsman’s report last year, we probably could not have imagined that our lives could turn to our heads in such a short time. We found ourselves in a difficult period, a period where all of us have been tested, in a period where there has been and there will be a great deal of denial and adjustment. We have found ourselves in times where it is necessary to limit human rights and freedoms in order to protect people's lives and health. However, it must not happen in any way that such restriction would become arbitrary or even arbitrary. Each restrictive measure must always be considered professionally and carefully and carried out a proportionality test between the public health interest on the one hand and the protection of fundamental human rights on the other. Milder measures must take precedence over stricter measures, and it is necessary to assess whether the measure is necessary, legitimate and justified. It is precisely because of the above that this year is more important than ever before to realize that human rights and freedoms are an extraordinary civilization achievement, that they are by no means self-evident, but are the result of long-lasting efforts and are in fact the rights of all people and that they must be respected and protected in a consistent manner. Thus, the Ombudsman plays an important role in our constitutional order. When it seems to us that sometimes the institutions are indecisive, do not listen, the Ombudsman is the one to whom our citizens and citizens can turn. Thus, the number of initiatives that the Ombudsman receives each year is an indicator of people's confidence in the Ombudsman's mission and his independence from state institutions. Social Democrats welcome the transparency of the 2019 report. We also welcome the Ombudsman's decision to present the content under consideration within vulnerable groups. However, we are extremely concerned that there are still 200 recommendations that have not been implemented, some even since 2013. The greatest violations are in the area of the principle of good governance and violations of children's rights. The 13 judgments of the Constitutional Court have also not been implemented. I think now is the right time to look at our faces and admit that we are also responsible. The Ombudsman points out that, as a society in several areas, we do not move forward in any way, as some vulnerable groups have for many years pointed out violations of their rights. If I first touch one of the most vulnerable groups - children. The Ombudsman notes that the number of initiatives in 2019 has decreased slightly, but has increased in the areas of contact with parents, children with special needs and violence. It is unacceptable that in 2020 we are dealing with difficulties in ensuring access to public schools for displaced and long-term sick students and that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport does not even have an accurate number on the accessibility of secondary schools and primary schools. The pressures of parents of disabled children and children with special needs are already so great, and this year the epidemic and restrictive measures have apparently increased. If the Ombudsman had been alerting the issue of access to health services for years, and unfortunately no government had been able to cope with it, the situation this year with the outbreak became alarming. People find it difficult to get a doctor, sometimes it seems that access to health services is already a privilege and no longer a right. Our health services are collapsing. Nurses and doctors burn out. We don't have enough personnel, we don't have enough room. There can be no way that people would not get help or get help when they needed it. Less diagnostics do not mean that we are healthier; other diseases remain. The problems that motivate the Ombudsman have been the same for many years, ranging from dissatisfaction with health care to waiting species, the relationship of health personnel, poor institutions and the like. Health care is materially nourished, which has a strong impact on accessibility to health services. Today, health care prevents timely health care for a significant number of citizens and citizens. The concern is the decline in public health funding and, on the other hand, the increase in the share directly from the pocket, which affects the social security of citizens and increases social inequality. That is why the Social Democrats advocate public health because it is based on values of solidarity, justice and equality. With the fact that the population is getting older and needs more health care, the fact that we still spend too little money on health care in Slovenia, that health workers are underpaid, that they are underpaid, that the epidemic has only worsened, is now a real time to take care of our health system. The health and social system will need to be upgraded to enable access to health services to all, to reduce waiting lines and to ensure that such a system is stable and financially sustainable. We are pleased that the Ombudsman has decided to address the broader issue of development ambulances. It is worrying that the developmental outpatient problems on the one hand prolong waiting periods for children, while on the other hand it is not possible to provide health care to an individual child to the extent necessary. Every treatment that is lost means a lot of damage and decay in their development and progress. Children may lose certain skills they have already acquired, some may experience an increase in developmental retardation, and some may experience poor joint movement in traffic. It would be sad if the effect of long-term regular and consistent therapies, including self-paying treatments that are extremely helpful to children, would now collapse within a few months. The most difficult are undoubtedly cases of domestic violence against children. In particular, the Ombudsman points out how to be cautious and recommends that in cases of domestic violence, special protection should be given to the protection of children and the procedures and measures provided for in the Domestic Violence Prevention Act be carried out carefully and as quickly as possible. The Ombudsman also often deals with the plight of children due to poverty. Data show that as many as 41,000 children and adolescents live below the poverty threshold in Slovenia. At the time of the epidemic, the pressures of children became even greater, even in those disorderly social families. Poverty is also often passed from generation to generation, making it particularly difficult for some families. When kindergartens and schools were closed at the first wave of the epidemic, they proved to be important in ensuring adequate nutrition for children. UNICEF and Save the Children warn that the immediate impact of the epidemic on income loss means that families are more vulnerable to basic livelihoods, including food and water, limit health care and education costs, while children are more vulnerable to violence, exploitation and abuse. And it is unacceptable that there are many pensioners living below the poverty threshold who have spent their entire lives working and paying contributions, and today they live with miserable pensions and are often even socially excluded and pushed to the brink of society. It is of great concern that the Ombudsman notes in the report that discrimination against persons with disabilities is increasing in Slovenia in many areas. If I list only some areas – employment, children's rights, equality before the law, restrictions on personal freedom, disability insurance, social security, justice. It is unacceptable, for example, that disabled persons still do not have adequate access to the courts. It is imperative that this area finally be settled and that this injustice and inequality be eliminated. Many people with disabilities are also unemployed, looking for a job for years, and in the end, many are desperate. Many young people with disabilities who graduate from school are in practice faced with the prejudices and fears of employers they have before they hire people with disabilities. There is a lack of adequate adjustment in the labour market, as employers do not have adapted jobs for disabled persons. Measures must be taken here to ensure the full inclusion of persons with disabilities in our society. This must not be merely a commitment, it is necessary to remove the obstacles consistently and to enable them to have an equal position in society. We have seen many urgent meetings of the Committee on Social Affairs or the Committee on Health on how the situation in nursing homes is becoming increasingly problematic for various reasons, particularly in terms of ensuring human rights and human dignity. We agree that long-term care needs to be arranged. Although the bill has been published, we believe that fundamental improvements are needed by the Social Democrats. There is also a key shortage of staff in homes for older people across Slovenia. In view of the overcrowding of premises and the lack of staff, the providers also suffer, which will be presented in more detail in the position at the following point. We will further address other issues with colleagues and colleagues, which is why I would like to thank the Ombudsman for his report in particular here. We will, of course, support the proposal for a recommendation to all institutions and officials at all levels to take into account the recommendations made by the Ombudsman in the 2019 Annual Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ombudsman, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! In his 2019 report, the Ombudsman dealt with 5,000 600 cases, of which almost 3,000 were citizens' initiatives. The new recommendations are 158. However, a worrying number of initiatives or recommendations are not as many as the worrying number of recommendations that have not been implemented in recent years. There are 200 such recommendations, including those that have remained unfulfilled since 2013. The 13 outstanding judgments of the Constitutional Court are also relevant. As the Ombudsman himself warns, it is the biggest infringement in the area of good governance. The rapid adoption of laws and the reduction of public hearings is one of the main problems. The inactivity and slowness of some bodies, including the Ministry of Labour, some municipalities, courts and centres for social work, are unacceptable and worrying, according to the Ombudsman. We join this opinion in the SMC. Much attention is paid in the Ombudsman's report to the institutional protection of the much older with the warning that living conditions in nursing homes are deteriorating due to lack of staff. Human resources standards, however, are insufficient, according to the Ombudsman. The problem is also reflected in an insufficient number of services to help older ones who want protection in their home environment. In this connection, a number of public debates have been held in the past on the subject of deinstitutionalisation, where the fatherhood is still not found by all common denominators. Equalization of opportunities for people with disabilities is the content that appears in all the Ombudsman's reports. Particular attention is thus paid in the report to regulating the access of persons with disabilities to inclusive education, to courts and to public schools. It is interesting to note that in our capital, most high schools do not have adequate access to disabled and long-term sick students. In its recommendation for this area, the Ombudsman draws attention to the need to complement the network of operators and to the recruitment of services to assist persons with disabilities. In hiring vulnerable groups, especially disabled people, the Ombudsman solves many issues with external business and direct incentives. In 2019, many cases concerned specific areas in the private sector for which the Ombudsman is not directly responsible, and the employment of persons with disabilities in the private sector should certainly be given special attention. It is encouraging that individuals in the Ombudsman have identified an institution to which they can turn and which can help them to solve their problems successfully. With regard to the protection of children's rights, we probably all agree that detected violations require immediate action, as they are the most vulnerable members of our society. It follows from the Ombudsman’s report that 2019 is an important milestone due to the two laws which entered into force this year, namely the Family Code and the Unfair Procedure Act. The aim of both laws, as the Ombudsman himself states, is to improve the situation of children. Therefore, the need for experts in clinical psychology for children and adolescents, psychiatry and pedopsychiatry should be taken seriously, thereby increasing delays in criminal and family proceedings in the courts. The latter was certainly not the legislative purpose of the two laws, and it is therefore necessary to know to what extent the situation has been attributed to the shortcomings of the regulatory regime and to how many difficulties in implementing the laws themselves. This time, we highlighted only some areas in the 2019 report of the Ombudsman, but many others are no less important. The Ombudsman also proposed a number of recommendations in the 2019 State Preventive Mechanism report, which is 416. Among them, the Ombudsman points out recommendations for police stations and homes for the elderly, most of them relating to housing conditions. The Ombudsman also points out in this report that there is a shortage of staff in nursing homes, but he points out that the efforts and efforts of the people who work with the most vulnerable are still perceived. Procedures for the certification of protected departments at the Ministry of Labour shall be carried out slowly. In spite of the negative opinion of the home of the older departments for the demented departments, the underprivileged number of approved wards has created a situation where, due to the accommodations determined by the court, the elderly departments are overstretched. Special emphasis is placed on the recommendations that result from the Ombudsman's thematic visits to nursing homes. With regard to the proper treatment of the elderly in the evening and nighttime. Both 2019 reports by the Ombudsman show progress in respect for human rights. However, we also point to the passivity of certain bodies and the need for greater awareness of the importance of active citizenship in respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms. We support the recommendations from both of the Ombudsman's 2019 reports in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Here comes the debate on the report and the proposal for a recommendation. As the first one gets the word, Member Predrag Baković, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u30	Vice President, thank you so much for your word. Honourable Deputy, Honourable Director of the Office, Other Visitors, Dear Fellows and Fellows! Every year, I read the report in particular carefully in the work that touches on national and ethical groups, particularly on Roma issues and on the topic of both Roma and, of course, the majority of the population involved. Among other things, I noticed that you visited the Roma village of Brezje, visited the kindergarten there. According to the teachers, 28 Roma were enrolled in this kindergarten, and he actually attends 12. It seems to me a little bit, given that in Bezja, somehow, according to some estimates, and I'm familiar with those, maybe you have another number, living from the circus of 700 to thousands of members of the Roma family. It seems to me that this is small, although here the educators feel that separate kindergartens are not a particular problem. In fact, I was also encouraged by the idea of a Romani saint there, which is a different opinion, which says that segregation should not actually be here and it would be best for Roma children to be included in normal kindergartens. This is also close to me precisely because segregation does not occur, that it also occurs as soon as possible to achieve this integration, that there are no problems later. It is also interesting to read that the Roma councilman in some way states that parents who do not send children to kindergartens should be deprived of social transfers. The trainers themselves are convinced that more decisive measures would be needed to change the situation they consider to be deteriorating from year to year. I may be missing some recommendations in this context as well. Secondly, what I have focused on is the final report on the functioning of the Interdepartmental Working Group to address the spatial problem of Roma, which has not yet been submitted to the Government. This was written in 2018, 2017. I myself have been an external member of this working group, and I must say that this report contains all the reasons and also proposals for solutions, and for years nothing has actually happened. The Ministry of Environment and Space, which, in fact, led this Interdepartmental Working Group, has informed you that they have simultaneously provided all ministries and government services with re-interresortmental coordination and that they have found that, in response to these calls for proposals, the materials have not yet been harmonised and have not yet said when they intend to harmonise it. That is why I am concerned that, according to my assessment of this Interdepartmental Group, such good work stands and, in fact, those sector ministries that also deal with this subject somehow do not take that step. On the other hand, much more is expected of local communities. Well, I'd say everyone here should do their homework. The Keeper probably agrees with me here that this is the case. Then you also note violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms related to the legal and communally unregulated Roma settlements, which, despite the long-standing recommendations you are writing, have not yet been resolved. So, indeed, I believe here that the Government must in some way ensure the effective and effective exercise of these human rights in illegal Roma settlements. Certain deadlines should also be laid down. You also state that Roma settlements must not be left to the will of mayors and municipal councils. I cut my ears a little bit here on the word "voluntary." It's not a matter of self-voluntarily, I'll say, more about knowing the situation and dealing with the subject that local communities face. True, some congregations are not active in solving this problem, while others are, but somehow they have not heard. However, the following must be taken into account. Every time a local community faces such problems, problems arise. I'll give you one concrete case. The European family, who is somewhere in Dolenjska, fled to the Kočev area because of the conflicts she had in that Romani settlement with another group, where she entered the congregation’s land, started building the apartment house, and built it. We know that illegal construction is forbidden, we know, of course, that everyone has the right to stay, but when it happens next, it may be the same or some other Roma family will re-have with someone and go to a third congregation and rebuild there. How long and where are we going to let this happen? In fact, I can't imagine, and at some point, we're going to have to sort these things out here too, because the mayors aren't dealing with these things. The inspection takes its place, issues a decision to disrupt a particular facility, and then it comes to the fact that, of course, the Constitutional Court has issued a decision as it has issued, it stands. But here I am actually asking myself, and also, respected colleagues and colleagues, how and where we will take this situation into account to the right of home, if you change your place of residence for a year, if you don't adjust or if there are problems elsewhere. This recommendation, which concerns that the Ombudsman recommends to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to strengthen activities for the preparation of a specific law for the intervention of Roma settlements, needs to be done in both directions. So it's legalized that things are allowed to stand up, but it's also to make it impossible to move new families together in the same way, and it's building a sizable building, and it's putting on good leverage to prevent such things from happening in the future because -- what's going on? The municipality, which is free to handle Roma issues in this way, provides the Roma who are currently at that location, some infrastructure, trying to arrange, going to sell off land, going to the service right, whatever it is, this is being developed, and then they come to its area from other Roma settlements, which, of course, they want to settle things, they try to settle it in such a way that they can move into this area. But here they run into the problem of those indigenous Roma who are already living there and there are conflicts, and not just conflicts, but finally this can happen all the time. So if I'm allowed to come to a congregation plot and set up a residence there and nothing happens to me, then I can do so in the second and third and fifth congregations. That is why, of course, we are the legislators here who will have to do something here, or even the Government, of course, but it is also in the context of these recommendations, which the Ombudsman here mentions. I read further in your report that you were among the leaders of the offices of Kočev and Šentjerne because of the conduct of the Roma there and that you are repeating your principled position on this occasion, and I will quote: “The legal and communal irregularity of the Roma settlements threaten the realization of the human and special rights of the Roma community or its members on the one hand, as well as the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms of the rest of the population living there, on the other hand. [[…]] Therefore, both may rightly feel affected in their dignity as regards personal rights, property rights, equality before the law and, last but not least, as regards trust in the rule of law. We reiterate that the defence of the special protection of the Roma community or its members is not equal to protection against all liability for unlawful conduct." I welcome this conclusion and this record of yours, but it seems to me that this is, in fact, more or less everything that you wrote in these situations, when also because of the actions of members of the Roma community, others are victims. And often others are victims of the actions of members of the Roma community. In this regard, I have not actually found any recommendations which would point out that the quality of life is improving for the majority population, which already has a Roma community in its midst, and especially for those living on the outskirts of Roma settlements. I haven't actually noticed anywhere how you judge the quality of life of those who live in Roma settlements. They too are or may not be in violation of the rights set forth in the Constitution. And it would also be good to pay a little more attention to this and also to ensure a standard. If you visit them too, you will hear many incredible and, in fact, terrible stories. Thus, in the conduct of members of the Roma community and their deviant behaviour, it is not only that such behaviours are the result of their lives in ghettos, unregulated conditions, that the violation of basic human rights also shows them the difficulties of hotelers in Slovenian coastal areas this year, where members of the Roma community have also been renewing their vouchers. Nothing wrong, and it's right that they got them, and it's right that they cashed them in. But you should ask hotelers there – you may know what was going on – merchants, innkeepers, residents, what problems they had. And, with such problems, we meet every day in the municipalities of Dolenjska or in the Southeastern region, where we have larger or smaller Roma communities. Since I have been in the National Assembly since 2018, I have been talking about this subject, even from the opposite point of view, because I am aware that the problem is because the Roma issue has not been settled for many years, because it is a matter of segregation, it is a matter of human rights violations, I fully agree, the situation is improving in some way, but the deviant behaviour is not getting smaller, they are increasing and they are worse. And this is the phenomenon that will be needed in some way in my opinion it is a topic for a collection of academics, but I am not the smartest about it, but I think it is necessary for the academic assembly to start dealing with it and find out why this is happening. [[…]] The standard is kind of rising, the living situation is rising, but there are worse and more violent crimes in the field of organised crime, such as drugs, the deployment of immigrants and so on. And here it will be necessary, Your Honor, all those who feel this problem and who you have will say a vein for it, even pay more attention. Dear Deputy Ombudsman, I welcome your report, and I also welcome the fact that you have included these things in the report, but I would suggest that we focus on those who, because of these long-standing irregular situation of the Roma, are also victims of irregular conditions in Roma settlements and, finally, suffer from it every day. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The next debater is mag. Diane Jedhan. Get ready, dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives of the Office of the Ombudsman. By the way, I want everything good for the guardian himself, as far as health is concerned. Dear Members and Members, representatives of the government, nice greetings to all! The report you sent us is basically two, because then we still have in the session, it's very extensive, so there's probably not enough of us that we took the time to read it. And then when we read it, we realized that we're actually going to read it a few more times, and then we're going to know too little. So, thank you, it's very transparent, it shows the extent of the work you're doing. But it's not exactly a great report, not because of you, and I'll explain why later. The Ombudsman's introduction is based on admitting that, as far as the protection and standards of human rights are concerned, we are well. Now that it will be very clear, we are not well because of the events of this year, last year, but we probably had a relatively high standard of this area when we went to the new country compared to other countries, and we very much believed in it. The early years of these beautiful countries have helped us to be quite high today, but unfortunately we are not going in the right direction now. And that's probably clear to everyone. Secondly, what you find is that we, who are the decision-makers of parliament, and even more so of you, who are the decision-makers of the government, must be concerned that the Ombudsman and his team are alerting us to the systemic problem of irresponsibility. The systemic problem of independence is, of course, the most targeted to the government, whatever it is. This is not a political issue, it is essentially a problem of inefficient governance, both at government level and at state level and in many ways, but also of communication between responsible departments, departments, ministries, individuals. Here you find that, in fact, it is a systemic violation of the principles of good governance, and we must remember that, of course. What is particularly in my eyes is, in fact, almost a paradox, because the report for 2019 and not for 2020 is when we have this severe crisis due to the covida-19 epidemic. In 2019 we had as a year marked conjunctures, a rapid reduction in the number of unemployed, all indices went far up. And what do you see? But poverty in our society is increasing. That means we've missed something. That means we've missed something. And when statistics are most dangerous, because they don't really say anything when statistics are improving, the number of people who are more difficult or difficult to deal with is increasing. That's unacceptable. This is the criticism of all of us to understand each other, this is not the criticism of one, the other, the fourth political party. This is a criticism of all of us that in our work we have not been attentive enough to the people who are most difficult to deal with, while as a country we have capacity, I will not say where we are using all hundreds of millions, but as a country we have the opportunity, the ability, the resources to help the people who are most difficult to help. You said, too, my predecessors made it very clear that non-response is really a systemic problem. We see when you meet with individual ministers, presidents of parliamentary committees, everyone is very happy because they are in your company, they accept your report, they say how important you are, but nothing changes. The fact that there are 200 recommendations, some from 2013, to which there is simply no response, must be an alarm. Neither one of us believes that people on the other hand are, of course, rude, that they do not want to, but there is no response. Why am I talking about this? Because I myself, when I read the report last night and those 200 plus the new 158 recommendations, I have been thinking about where I can help you or help you in this Parliament so that the number could be a little better next year for this year. I don't have all the answers yet. Will it be necessary to refer an urgent session to an urgent meeting? Because after understanding the operation of the Slovenian state, when we also pay attention to a matter to the politicians, the officials will make sure that they move it to save it, then to have their peace. So will the resolution be such that we have an urgent session, an urgent session, an urgent session? Will it be enough for Members and Members to be quick to submit written, oral questions, the initiatives that will follow, and if there is no correct answer, again and then to call for accountability? So, any path we take, we will probably have to take more roads, it will be good not to feel that people can be at peace even if they do not respond to your recommendations but talk about human rights violations. So that's what I was asking myself yesterday, today, even before. I don't have all the answers. I will also try to react by talking in a wider group that it will not be a political action, but that it will be an action to help the Ombudsman in Slovenia. Then the next thing that bothered me. I've read a few areas, I've come to a chapter on page 128, and when you talk about foreigners, it's basically almost fear of you. I've noticed that basically when you touch human rights violations in individual groups, you're being treated wrong. We're dealing with the obvious, the public, but there's probably more to what you're doing. What is it with you to think that Roma also has human rights? What is it with you to think that the person who happens to be a migrant, a refugee, and also Slovenians were refugees during World War II and later, what is it with you to think that these people have human rights? There will be more and more cases of stigmatization. We will quickly come to you when they ask you: “What is it with you to think that those who do not agree with the current authority that they have human rights?” We're going in the wrong direction to develop society. There are stigmatisations that were not typical of modern Slovenian society. And then when a representative of the biggest government party with a finger shows what's wrong, so please take a good look at yourself. [[…]] How about us who are in opposition? What do you think of the others? Look at yourself, clean the mirror, use a good cleaner, see what the reflection will show, and start solving things with yourself. Everyone has to take the first step on their own. And even when you take the first step, be very careful when you accuse others because you have to make the second, the third, and the tenth. Respected and respected, I believe that the 2020 report we will receive next year will be significantly worse in the field of human rights violations in some areas. By the way, there's been a few words about the Roma today. I won't let you stigmatize them, stigmatize them, anyone. However, I am deeply disturbed by the fact that Roma in Slovenia are considered only as a security issue. And I don't know if you've noticed, respected and respected by the Office of the Ombudsman, if I understand correctly, the Government of the Commission for the Protection of the Roma Community, which was proactive, had successful projects, if you don't know, come and look at Prekmurje and elsewhere, if I understand the answer I got 30. 9. 2020, by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has simply abolished because it has set up a working group to address the Roma issue at the Ministry responsible for internal affairs, that is to say, where they have to resolve their excesses. If anyone on the Roma community, regardless of the community that's part of our co-operation, but only as a security issue, I have to tell you that you've driven a hundred an hour. I know that a lot of things don't work, and I know that there's a lot of things going against the law, but there's a lot of things that need to be solved and solved. But if you think that the answer will only be that the repression, the new repression and the announcement of the third repression to succeed will not succeed, because it has not been successful anywhere. That is why I call on you, honourable Members, to do so. Let us respectfully read again the report we received from the Keeper. Secondly, we understand that human rights are the rights of all people, not allowed to stigmatize individual groups. Thirdly, please, by treating each other with respect and especially those who are not here to say the word in their defence, let us allow society to go back to some normalization because it is a respectful speech of virtue, because it is if it is to a colleague who is a possible member of another political party, ideology or anything else, you also admit that he is worthy as a man, that his word also applies to that which is also a virtue. So let this report, which is before us, be a chance to slightly reverse the development of Slovenia, which at this point in my opinion is not going in the right direction. Once again, the distinguished representative of the office, the distinguished remaining present, thank you for the work you are doing, it is important to be persistent. And let us give messengers and messengers of all colors, please listen, hear, and respond to the things that the Keeper tells us, brings, writes. Thank you, Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. You can't have a replica, ma'am, because you haven't discussed it yet, so wait for your opportunity in the debate. We're moving on. Dr. Franz Duck has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Just Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. I have to hurry a little, 'cause there's some more of ours. Nice greeting especially to the representatives of the Authority. I'll continue somewhere where Dejan stopped. Now that I've been listening to him, I've been thinking, you know, every single one of us is simultaneously a minority, and in some areas it's handicapped. I think we should be aware of that at the start. Where do I start? A representative of the largest party, coalition, spoke of spiritual and mental poverty. I agree with that. Look, I'm going to read a couple of Chihuahuas. “Independent journalist @tfajon does not agree that the EU learns the truth about the Slovenian MSM landscape led by #udbomafija.” “In every war there is a fifth column. This is the same war against the virus today as it was against JLA in 1991. Social Democrats.” »In 1990, thanks to Kučana, empty weapons warehouses, empty warehouses of the medical equipment of the Roje warehouse.« Although even during the first government of Janša, they were even more empty. “The hyenas on the march.” » @milan_brglez known and loud supporter of terrorist Iran and its satellites, including Palestine.« [[…]] “No wonder then @MatjaGerman is afraid of everything. Except for his mother's washing machine." “Once Serpetinšek, always Serpetinšek.” "For how much does @BandelliMarco make a box of concrete and how much does he sell it for? "And this is this strong financier who does not separate between €80,000 and €8 million? #ahilovapeta« To which Jože Tanko replied: "It can easily happen if you speak in trance." Jean Mahnic says: “Then that white powder Violet received did not come to the right address?” Jean Mahnič: “We now have the South in the opposition, and therefore there are night sessions.” “If the 3rd development axis has not been in the last 8 years, when @stranakaSD has been continuously in government, now @JaniThe forwarder is counting on #AntifaTerrorist coalition to build it.” “We need traditional parties and not a puppet of udbomafija.” And so up and down. State Secretary for National Security! Spiritual and mental poverty. And when I ask the question, I get an answer from the Government that Jean Mahnic, of course, has the constitutional right to freedom of speech. But you know, the constitution isn't a cake where you look, yeah, that strawberry suits me, and that marzipan doesn't suit me. The Constitution has an article that also speaks of human dignity. And now that Dejan has said where we can start, I started by not using Twitter, because as a politician, I will not participate in this literal pissing and fertilization on each other. And here's a starting point. Certain people, who have lived their whole lives since high school, on the tits of a country of 60 plus, it seems to me that 18 of us are like that, and most of us have reached Abraham more, we should actually start a lot different. I'm not going to say that I didn't have to play Pitbull Left sometimes in my first term, but I kind of went to the autoreflex and decided not to do it again, frankly. Obviously, now that I'm looking at this today, how many of us are here, how many of you have checked out, this is obviously only a matter of interest to the Social Democrats and maybe someone else. If I had a functioning constitutional parliamentary democracy, this body would not be needed. And this is my desire to abolish the Guardian of Human Rights because there would be no need for him anymore. We should actually look forward to this in the long term. When I read this report, I remembered, after all, I'm still a sociologist, how sociologists, especially German sociologists, have been talking about two-thirds companies since the late 1980s. At that time, popular debates about post-modern, end-industrialization and so on and they simply set up the thesis, see, one-third – that now sounds a little harsh – people will simply be superfluous. In the human language, they would say "scart", and society doesn't need them. And now we are sorry to live this political economy, so I read this report by the Ombudsman, beyond all that others are saying. We live in a society, let's be honest, where if you find yourself between the ages of 40 and 45, you'll have a decent life between the 45th and the 60th, something that's the most in the customers who work more after they get together, and in academic and some other nomenclatures, and a little over 60 plus. You are less than 40 years old than 60 years of age, since we hardly need you. This is actually the state that we live in and that we live in one fifth of the richest societies in the world. Until we change this political economy, the Ombudsman's reports will continue to be more and more well-designed, increasingly fatter, with ever-increasing recommendations. The political economy needs to be replaced! Do you know? I don't know if you know, maybe you don't. Trafficking in human beings - two thirds of trafficking in human beings in the European Union is internal in nature, happening within the European Union. A whole range of sectors, not just petty crime, prostitution, construction, househelp, agriculture, are based on partial slavery. Go to the street and take a look. I don't know, there's a ring in Maribor, France will know, on the Koroška road. You ask the worker how much he gets per hour, how much his boss kills him. Invisible workers. And you're gonna tell them what these NGOs are, their money needs to be collected. A lot of my students who are too smart to be hired at some department. The former guardian of human rights, when she went into the field, said, "When a man opens his mouth, I know what time it is." A scrawny smile. There is 120 000 euros for one concessional medical team. In short, 8 per million, 80 per 10 million, 15 million 120 teams, we'd have solved this problem in a few years. We are here to sing whether we will be able to start dental studies in Maribor, which we urgently need, and where we will find 120, 130 000 euros. At the moment, we have both State Secretarys at the Ministry of State of Maribor. I don't know if I'd be the secretary of state at school, I'd say, wait, if we're going to make this happen, not just because I'm from Maribor, but because they have the right to have respectable teeth, or if I'm going to give up, kid, but I'm going to go, I don't know where to work on the farm, like I've done before. Political economy. I was just reading this morning, a global crisis, a biography of Keynes in the 1930s, how they had to ask themselves, including Picketty, yes, after all. There's almost probably no billionaire, but a millionaire is rare, who's got billions, that he didn't take too much or too much from someone else, come on, maybe the descendants of the Tetra Pak family. These are some things. And until we make changes in the field of political economy, in the human language, we say, about some basic foundations, how we will live differently, how we will redistribute more fairly, where often not only the new left, but also the right one forgets that first it is necessary to create something that you can redistribute, some of these movements will not be essential. I've been a Member since 2014. Bojana, what is this 6.7 report we're already reading? And the story is more or less here somewhere. A little more beautiful are these reports, more beautiful to read, not more pleasant to read. It's not our job to be rooting for each other here, which is increasingly what politics is doing. But this government is completely incompetent, please. Where does the Secretary of State for National Security have time and nonsense for this? Where does the Prime Minister of the Government, who I don't know is 40 Chives a day, 20 of his own, 20 tails? This is a serious insubstantial addiction. These people should be treated, no matter what, even if they were one of the parties I belong to. Or if you want, a high-ranking official at the Ministry of Culture, some sausage. I should probably have the Ombudsman, and this is my advice to the Ombudsman's body, let me make one report for the next year to the Ombudsman, and how many politicians are at risk of human rights, there is no need to be 150 advice, a dozen will be enough. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Bevk has the floor, prepare Ms Maša Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I am also joining the congratulaters on the 25th annual report of the Ombudsman, which has already been delivered by Ambassador Andrej Černigoj. Since I participated in the National Assembly in examining the first report of the Ombudsman for 1995 presented by the first Ombudsman, Ivan Bizjak, allow me to take a short walk into not so distant history. The Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats, or then the ZLSD, took seriously the first report of the Ombudsman from the very beginning. Since I was a member of the Commission for Petitions, I was honoured and also greatly obliged to present the position of the Group until the first Ombudsman's report. Without false modesty, I can say that the Social Democrats were one of the few parliamentary groups that took this difficult issue seriously and actively during the 1996-2000 term. For most of the members of the group, this was a marginal topic at the time. Throughout his term of office, the Ombudsman found that many complaints and human hardships could not be adequately resolved by failing or missing legislation. That is why we proposed then that the Government, as a proponent of most laws, should adopt a specific programme to harmonise individual laws with the Ombudsman's proposals and suggestions. We also proposed the decision because the representatives of the Government, with the exception of one State Secretary, did not participate in the first examination of the reports at all. Of course, this has changed over the years, and I can say that the next governments have been more responsive. Unfortunately, today I again miss the presence of government representatives, at least in large numbers, I think that even no minister is here today. Now to the 2019 report of the Ombudsman. I will address only one issue, namely environmental and spatial issues, particularly the problems of degraded areas. The Ombudsman notes in his report that the initiatives he was considering in 2019 were also linked to the rehabilitation of degraded areas. In this context, he mentioned, in particular, the Mežíska Valley and the Celje Valley, whose problems have been addressed continuously for several years and progress is not what the Ombudsman would have wanted. Otherwise, the Ombudsman estimates that pollution is a problem in general. It adds that there is no appropriate will for progress, as it notes that there is no strategy to improve the living environment. The biggest problem, it notes, is where several different sources need to be involved to be remedied. I can sign it myself. However, it is not only the Mežiški valley and the Celje Valley, but there are even more such areas in Slovenia. In this place, let me point out two areas of degraded environment due to the operation of the Anhovo cement plant in the Soča valley and the multi-century operation of the mercury mine in Idrija, which only polluted the city of Idrija because of the production of mercury, and the Idrija Rivers and Soča Rivers. If I focus solely on Idria, which belongs to my constituency, the past exploitation of mine mines in closure not only in Idrija, but also elsewhere, it is necessary to maintain an adequate urban environment against the other consequences of past mining, which are reflected, as it were, in the mining damage, the degraded environment and also in the health care of miners, of course. When I asked Minister Zdravko Počivalska about the rehabilitation of mining damage last year, the Minister replied to me that the Ministry of Economic Development and Mining Technology no longer directly financed because Idrija, as an enterprise, had ceased to function as an entity directly causing this damage. And when the State carried out the liquidation of the mercury mine on 17 May 2017 and thereby eliminated the address for the payment of mining damage, the case received its epilogue. The country washed its hands like that, and the problems remain. Despite the fact that the mine, as an economic operator no longer exists, is still an integral part of the Idrija area and has a negative impact on the environment. The Center for the Heritage of Mercury is monitoring and has identified new phenomena of crawling, slips, clotting, hydrological problems and other phenomena that threaten residents and infrastructure. There are also a number of other problems, such as living silver-burdened land, construction waste in special degraded areas, as we do not have an official landfill in Slovenia for waste loaded with mercury. In our case, it is 480,000 cubic metres of combustible remains and heifers loaded with mercury, which is about 300 thousand square meters or 15% of the walled surfaces in some parts of Idria and Lower Idria. So, then, let's say, on the question of the letter in June this year, the Minister of Mag. Andrej Vizjak replied that the Ministry of Environment and Space is not the competent Ministry for these matters. I therefore wonder who in this country is responsible for this issue and for the rehabilitation of degraded areas. Once again, I can agree with the Ombudsman's finding that the greatest problem is where several different sources are needed to be rehabilitated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Masha Kociper. But get ready, Mr. Franz Jurša. Mr. Just Bevk, if you just turn off the microphone. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Vice President. Nice greetings to everyone from the Guardian's office on my behalf as well! I have listened carefully to the debates of Members and Members so far, including the views of the groups of Members and, of course, have reviewed the report which has been sent. In this regard, of course, I also thank you for the work done, and in particular for all the efforts that allow us to make such a comprehensive report more transparent and that there is also a summary that is, of course, easier to review. While I understand the report primarily as a tool of the Ombudsman that, within the framework of his powers, he not only points out what might be wrong in a particular area, but that even within his powers, of course, he cannot, of course, try to change these matters, just as possible, with caution, with scrutiny, by means of assistance, if necessary, including with the requirements of certain authorities, where things are repeated. We all find that some things have been dragging around for years and years and that warnings have been similar for years and years. I understand this report today, and in particular the fact that the report also addresses the National Assembly each year, in particular as a kind of dialogue, not so much between us Members and the Ombudsman's representatives, the Ombudsman's representatives have already done their part with the report, but in particular a kind of dialogue between the Members themselves and between the Government. Given that there are many things that the Government should prepare, or that individual ministries do not do their job or any other institution, including the courts and others mentioned, of course I would expect more representatives of the government to participate in this debate, and at least in this way to show some respect for this report. Of course, a nice greeting to those present today who listen to this debate. The Ombudsman's report allows us to have really not so much an overview of what is in our system, in our country the most wrong – at least that's how I understand it – and that together we are looking for solutions to these mistakes. Some Members have focused more on particular areas, Roma or, as a colleague to me, on some environmental problems, but I would like to take a brief look at my thinking on these main warnings. And I promise I won't be too long. The problem of the elderly first. This, and, of course, we have repeatedly in the SAB Group that we have older people in our country and that I am most tormented by those who have spent the necessary time, work their entire lives, pay taxes and such contributions as was necessary under the law, and today they cannot live a decent life or even live under the grip of poverty. This is something one democratic country should not afford. And that is why our programme always places a special emphasis on the elderly and, in particular, the emphasis on not only getting things out of the way, but also getting things out of the way. If I touch my pension first. As far as the solution is concerned, our party has also made provision, as you know, for this period considered to be pensionable to be extended, and has also sought to shorten this transitional period to the extent that as many people as possible have these new rights as provided for by law. We have also now introduced a law that shortens this transitional period with regard to when the law should enter into force for three years. With this period, of course, we save the fact that as soon as possible there will be fewer people who will retire with very low incomes, very low pensions, and then have a hard time living. For those people I am talking about right now, it is the most humiliating thing if any representative of the government, a representative of Parliament or anyone else says, yes, yes, your low pension needs to be saved not by increasing the pension, but by social transfers. For someone who has worked his whole life who has never used social transfers because he did not need them, it is something extremely humiliating to rely on social transfers after a period of marriage. And I think we can all understand that. Social transfer already has one such possible little negative omen in it, and these people cannot possibly understand that we should solve our situation in this way. And to remind you, 90 thousand older people are supposed to be below the threshold of poverty. And of course, what can be done here? There are more problems, and there are opportunities for solving them too. But what bothers me tremendously is that certain solutions are not even considered. As a Member, who has been in Parliament for so many years now, to understand what our budget is, what every pension increase means, given how many pensioners there are, I understand these problems, I understand that every increase means millions and millions of dollars, but I do not understand that we do not all take some small steps together in this area, some little chance that some problems will be solved by many. One of these is the harmonisation of the pension in fixed amount, as proposed in the SAB. It is right and right that some have paid more, some have paid less, and this alignment with the costs is perfectly reasonable and on the spot and in our law also accurately defined. However, to avoid extreme harmonisation, where possible, to those who are the poorest, helping to move slowly without social transfer over the edge of poverty, which you do not support for some of the underlying reasons, and I cannot understand that. As I am, you know, increasingly struggling to reconcile my pension, there are already reconciliations, as you know, all the parties are making this effort, of course, on a regular basis, but on the other hand, two reconciliations this year for the richest – a terrible expression – for pensioners with the highest pensions, it is, indeed, I wonder how meaningful it is. It is true that there are not many of them, I know all of them, but why we are already raising the pension in such an extraordinary way to everyone as a percentage, why, even then, with extraordinary coordination, those who have a thousand 300, a thousand 800, and two thousand 300 are supposed to be pensioners, once again getting a permanent pension, I don't know, 100 euros more, while they get six euros below and will never come across the poverty line. I mean, these little things that we could do with the legislation on these problems are hard to do. I would also mention, of course, the law on long-term care. I can't understand, our government had it prepared, written, but every government that finds it throws it into a drawer and starts again. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Your time has run out. We continue the debate. Mr Franc Jurša has the floor, and Mr Jože Lenart is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u40	Vice President, thank you. A nice greeting to representatives of human rights, the Ombudsman, as of course, to everyone else in the hall! However, I will be able to focus more specifically on one more issue that deals with the elderly: long-term care and institutional accommodation in homes for older citizens or citizens. Given that we have one quarter of the age of 65, of course, this society needs to care for this population. But when we were taking initiatives on long-term care, we always had trouble telling us that the biggest problem is money. In this mandate, too, a law has already been drawn up and I hope that we will be able to bring it through the procedure by the end of this mandate. The key problem, the problem of housing in nursing homes, is human resources and spatial problems. That's where we're fed. I would like to point out that in Slovenia we have 59 public institutions, 43 concessionaires, that we have a total of 18 000 800 places in these homes, that there is a majority, 13 000 500, in public homes and 5,000 300 in private homes. By 2025, the Ministry of Labour, the family, and social affairs are somewhere to be judged in order to need an additional 3,000 400 cities and, in 2030, 5,000 cities. How will this country ever be able to ensure? I must say, the Keeper always exposes the issue of the elderly. It is right that this is always talked about and repeated, of course, because this is a key problem for the coming society. We're not going to be able to put this under the carpet, but we're going to have to talk about it and we're going to have to talk about it. This year's pension centre is expected to be completed along the Regent road in Ljubljana, 44 places for residents with dementia. An invitation to tender for a thousand 100 new concessions was issued in July. However, care within concessional homes is, of course, more expensive for a quarter, especially because they point out that caregivers have greater comfort there, there are rooms where one pensioner or an elderly person lives, of course, with a bathroom and all other facilities. Of course, these aren't all rooms, but most of them are rooms. In fact, homes for the elderly are limping through the seams, and for 15 years the country has not built a single home. Even now, there is no telling what will happen to the planned upgrade in Vrtojba and Osilnica. The Coalition Treaty states that these two will be completed at home and that five homes will be built. Of course, this would be a good start, and I hope that we will succeed in this period, too, in this mandate. I've said before in the beginning that the biggest problems are money. If it is provided from the European funds, from the land real estate fund and from the financial assets owned by the management company, this issue will, of course, increase. Now there is something else about the age of our pensioners or our elderly living in homes. 87 years is their average age. I mentioned earlier that we have one quarter or 425 thousand people in the Republic over 65 years of age. This means, in some ways, that there will be increasing pressure on homes if we do not make sure that we get to the long - term care law. Now, let's talk about what kind of human resources pressures they have in their homes. The circumstances are a concern in professions such as cooks, assistant chefs, working therapists, physiotherapists, paramedics, caregivers, middle nurses. The effectiveness of the calls for proposals for these jobs is barely 50%. Of course, it will be necessary to raise wages because this is a basic problem in view of the very difficult work and weight. Of course, wages are very low. Compared to having a gross of €860 with the 18th pay grade and that they can advance to the 28th pay grade, they have a thousand €70 net. There is, of course, an allowance for Sunday’s and night’s work, and then we imagine how much this or what kind of salary is paid these people who work in homes in very difficult jobs, as I mentioned earlier. Look, it's no wonder that our nurses are mass leaving for Austria, where they have once more pay and also 13th and 14th pay. This will simply have to start to worry us, and it is right that the Keeper should also warn us about such things. If we keep this in mind as much as possible and continuously as possible, of course we can expect this to change once in the future. Now perhaps there is something else about home funding itself. More or less homes are paid by those who live in homes, or by their relatives, the narrowest and also by the Department of Health Insurance, paying 32% of their share. Given that the average pension in Slovenia is very low, almost none of the people can guarantee their 70% or very difficult to provide. I'm not gonna say no one. I'm gonna say a big majority. The average old-age pension is €670, which means that money is lacking for housing at home. And another thing that worries me immensely is that I come from northeastern Slovenia, I have to tell you that a lot of our people go to Croatia or is in Croatian homes for the elderly. That is to say, we no longer go to Croatia on the Adriatic Sea, which is beautiful, wonderful, but our elderly also go to Croatia, unfortunately, I must tell you honestly, to die. And, of course, given that we are such a society, we should probably not afford it, and we must strive to ensure that those with lower incomes can also survive their age in Slovenia. I'd stop at this point. I would also like to point out that in Slovenia we still need to focus on long-term care, because we estimate that if we actually organise this activity and fund it, then there will be less pressure on homes. A lot of people want to survive their age where their whole lives have lived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The next panellist is Mr Jože Lenart, and the mag is being prepared. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. He certainly thanks the Ombudsman and the entire team, who carry out their mission for a vast and wide range of areas. The 2019 report of the Ombudsman focuses mainly on these vulnerable groups, the elderly, children, the disabled, the unemployed, religious communities, national and ethical communities, foreigners, employees. The Ombudsman also pays a lot of attention to social rights issues, especially domestic violence and poverty. Certainly these are groups with lazi knowledge, which especially for this reason need your help, because this is why you are working, and this is what your mission is meant for. There are now more than 200 complete or partially unreported past reports. Some have been dragged since 2013, it is evident from your report and are still current, but the competent authorities have not taken them seriously enough. Nevertheless, a number of new recommendations are made, and this year they are 158. This shows that as a society, we are coping with many, often new challenges, so it is essential that we address the resulting infringements or shortcomings of regulation as actively and naturally as possible. I said this because it seems very important to me that you monitor this transparently, and you point out this, because it is precisely this transparency that we lack in Slovenian policy, which we should also include in many cases, and we forget about certain things that we mentioned earlier. If I return to these vulnerable groups, which I mentioned at the outset in relation to your report, of course, I would like to say the following. Since I have already faced this problem myself, and have repeatedly directed and sought the assistance of several groups of vulnerable groups in the search for human rights, of course, following these accepted standards of democratic society, which should also apply to us, I have come to an important knowledge of this. These groups, who seek their rights, in practice turn to the Ombudsman only after they have exhausted many other options and have already wasted a lot of energy, valuable time and even financial resources, and even property, so that we do not talk about personal and community pressures that affect human health and, of course, also on society as a whole. Therefore, it is my personal opinion that people and groups should first turn to the Ombudsman, who at the very beginning of their tribulations, to help them find the right way to this ultimate goal in particular. Many of these groups and individuals are only aware by the Ombudsman’s involvement or knowledge that he has been misled or even misled by lazi knowledge. And that's what's important about it. I think we all understand what I mean by that. I also propose a higher level of public information for accessibility to the Ombudsman, perhaps through regional approaches. I think that you have also said about this in the report itself, but here I think it is very important that you do more, even though I know that you are humanely limited, but look, if necessary, not in this area should you do more. However, I would like to draw attention to another area, to the long-standing proceedings of court mills arising from complex and uncoordinated and constantly changing legislation. This is the specificity of our young country when, of course, we are adapting to this common market, still gradually in the 1930s, and here is the problem that I personally see. I have already mentioned this at the presentation of one of the previous 2017 reports. And that's when the guardian told me that the backlogs were shrinking. I agree with that. That's also proven. However, my warning is more focused on a comparison of other countries that relate more to these comprehensive procedures of this common time of hearing and to judicial proceedings that are lagging behind or even afterwards obsolete. Years ago, I was following a discussion where Bavarian practice was presented. And there it was somehow presented like this, if the judge of the most difficult cases doesn't solve in two years, then he doesn't get new cases and, of course, he has to look for a new path. Somehow that was the way it was presented. However, we know that this is completely different, since in practice some significant movements are not yet detected here. Therefore, in judicial proceedings, we must protect both parties in procedures to do as little economic, financial and, of course, psychological harm to the people involved. See here, I am also thinking of a broader area, this insolvent legislation, which is also characteristic of Slovenia, which is certainly about the plight of vulnerable groups. We know that in these insolvency proceedings all employees and, of course, creditors with their bodies and lives are also an important article, and that is then important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Next up, it's mag. Bojana Muršič, prepare yourself for mag. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, representatives of the Keeper! First of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks to you, your collective, for such extensively prepared material, which is jubilee 25, and shows a reflection of the country towards individuals and groups who cannot and must not be proud of us all. The decisions that we make here in the National Assembly are sometimes not well thought out and we reach into the lives of citizens and citizens of our country. The report we have today clearly shows the consequences and also reminds us of the failure to adopt the relevant legislation. I must say that concern is that there is more than 200 recommendations, I am following them, which have somehow been dragged back since 2013 and are still up to date. Even more worrying are the new recommendations made by 158. This collection of recommendations is not good or good, but it sets up a mirror in which we all need to identify ourselves. And if I touch just a few areas, because there have been many areas to talk about today. The area of poverty. It is a good or bad week from what we have marked the international fight against poverty, and today we are considering this report. The rate of poverty in Slovenia is 12%, which 243,000 people live below the poverty threshold, which is certainly not good. Although it is smaller than it was in 2015, this epidemic that we are facing today speaks of an even higher rise in poverty in the coming years. Poverty is the biggest threat to older women. The risk of poverty in women over 75 years of age is 28.1%. Every seventh Slovenian is at risk of social exclusion. We can't be proud of that either. Children are also extremely disadvantaged and at risk. If I touch violence. The concern is the fact that the Ombudsman cites it in his 2019 report. He also wrote: “Slovenian society is still consumed with both great tolerance for violence and with many gender-based prejudices, which often leaves victims misunderstood and unsupported in their decision to step out of the cycle of violence.” Otherwise, it points out that in Slovenia we have zero tolerance for having well regulated legislation, that Slovenia is party to many important declarations, conventions, agreements governing this area, including the so-called Istanbul Convention. In Poland's recent calls for Slovenia's withdrawal from the Istanbul Convention, however, we are rightly concerned that there will be a regressive situation in this area. The first steps in the direction of Slovenian foreign policy have already been taken. Poland's efforts to create a new initiative for a different definition of family, children and violence are unacceptable to us or to me, and I am pleased to hear the response of the Ombudsman, who says that the Istanbul Convention rightly addresses the issue of violence against women and the family and that it would be irresponsible to withdraw from it. Efforts for zero tolerance to violence of all kinds should be further strengthened. We still have things to address under the Istanbul Convention in Slovenian legislation, so I am also pleased with the opinion of the Minister of Justice, who joins the Ombudsman's response, so I sincerely hope that this will be the case. But I expect more things to be done that are in detention. At the principle level, as I said, we have well-ordered legislation, but it is not always enough and there will be a number of steps to be taken here. Nor do laws condone domestic violence for the privacy and protection of the family. In view of the fact that we live in a society that highly values traditional values and in which family represents one of the foundations and most important pillars of life, it is essential that each individual realizes that domestic violence can be prevented by timely informing the competent authorities. Many times, though, it seems to me that we prefer to look away, close our eyes, and stay out of the private lives of others, and play a passive observer. Are we really becoming a society without compassion? I'm asking a question. In Slovenia, the sensitivity to domestic violence is still relatively low, as shown by the problem of underreporting of violence. That's a lot. But there's a lot we can't hear, and we have to worry about that. Problems also occur in mental health, which is also the result. The consequences are especially evident at the time of the crown, where women are at the root of the family and are also exposed to family violence. Here it will be necessary to think and take steps to improve the mental health of all individuals. Also worrying is the fact that the latest data on the mental health of young people who are deteriorating in Slovenia are also showing. The rapid pace of life, social networks, new forms of technology contribute to poor mental health, especially young people who are more psychologically and socially vulnerable. There are new addictions, both from video games, Facebook, Instagram, and, finally, there is a school in the distance and children today, young people spend almost three quarters of the day next to the computer, thus less moving and also much less sleeping, which has an impact on their poor mental health. Many children are already on these medications, there will be a need to think about how this matter will be resolved during this crown. If I touch my health for just a moment. Health is collapsing, in 2015 the Ombudsman defined health protection as a disaster, and today I no longer know what term to use. Nurses and doctors burn out. Emergency medical care, first battle type, calls for help, because they themselves will not be able to do this anymore, they do not have enough personnel, they are running out of energy, and they will all burn down together. We'll have to get together here as soon as possible and take steps forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Since the time has passed for the SD Group to discuss, the next debate is Mrs Mojca Žnidarič and will then be prepared as the last in this round by Mrs Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. That's a nice hello to all of us! I, too, thank the Ombudsman for this 25th anniversary report. Yes, as has been said, we have received a mirror in which, as a society and as representatives of society, we can or should also look at ourselves with a certain reflection. So I was a little surprised earlier by the debate of the opposition MP, saying, yes, now we are in the opposition, you are doing this, that, but if we look at how many years we have been talking about deinstitutionalization, long-term care, about the unresolved institution of the family assistant, all of this was under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, which for many years also in the SD led, so that I think we all really need to look at ourselves in the mirror and see what went wrong, as Mr Židan said. These areas, which the Keeper has also quite highlighted, are, unfortunately, too long to be saved. I sincerely hope that this long-term care will be resolved now, although, as it is said, it will not solve all the problems, but I think there will be quite a lot of them. A few things, but some of the recommendations we have managed to implement, even recently, for example, one that the Ombudsman has pointed out over the years, that is the summation of working age in people. People, therefore, some have paid for a voluntary retirement period, some have bought up, and this has not been fair, although the Constitutional Court has actually said that the matter is not as unconstitutional as it has now been regulated in pension legislation as regards the acquisition of working time. But it seems to me that now in this government we have found obedience and a healthy farm of intelligence and arranged these two institutes to be equally, fairly regulated, so that all those who have acquired or paid voluntary pension insurance up to 31. 12. 2012 until the law of ZPIZ-2 began to make it clear that everyone was considered to be a period without a purchase. So we've done quite a few wrongs with that for sure. I would like to make some recommendations, but I will not repeat what I am already on the boards or what has been exposed many times today, but some others. For example, recommendations 122 and 123, and we are pleased to see that report 122 has already been implemented. Thus, the Ombudsman has for three or four years warned that people who care for their parents or their adoptive parents or at home or in retirement homes in order to enforce tax relief for the survival of family members. So I am pleased to note that this is possible and also possible with 2020. However, I am a little more concerned or I cannot agree with the Government's response to the following 123 recommendations. The Ombudsman also notes for three or four years that children who receive family pensions, that is, children who have lost one of their parents, are also obliged to pay their income. Family pensions are quite low and each of these children then receives an income decision every year and has to pay this income. So it's either him or the other parent who takes care of him. I think and myself have already asked this question last year, a reply from the government, which I do not think is right in the last three years. I agree with what the Ombudsman has proposed that this should be exempted. And that's why I ordered my own research assignment here in the National Assembly days ago in our department, which deals with this, how it is in other countries. We'll see what happens. If the other countries of the family pensions do not have the children taxed, I predict that I will pass the parliamentary law, and I hope that the Members will gather so much courage that we will then be alone if the Ministry of Finance does not have this hearing, we will arrange it. It's a long way to go with small steps. Sometimes it's a small step for someone really important. It's not that big a population of these children, but it's one justice. Today, like most of you, I will focus on the elderly. On the committees I have discussed more about employment, about people with disabilities, about employment rehabilitation, but today I will also focus on the older recommendations in this area, because obviously we all know, we are all aware that among the older people, the risk of poverty is among the highest. If you remember, I also asked the Minister of Labour about widow's pensions on Monday when the questions were sent. So those pensioners who live alone, that is, when they stay alone and receive widow's pensions, among them, poverty is in fact the worst. I can also say from practice that unfortunately I do not know what to do in this area, unfortunately many people, and that those people who are most in need do not know all their rights, do not know where to turn. I know that quite a few people do not know about the protective supplement, as has already been exposed to in one of the positions today, then even less about the possibility of an allowance to help and care for those who care for or have a homeowner. But if they put him in a home, they explain it to them and they're familiar with it. Many also do not know about the possibility of social assistance, and those who need it most. What to do in this area? I think working at social work centres should also be different. Social workers should be more on the ground, not just in the papers, or in other ways to inform these people. With regard to the elderly, however, I would like to highlight something that the Ombudsman also highlighted in his report. We all know that we are becoming a long-lived society that brings many challenges. As stated, according to the Statistical Office, the risk of poverty among the elderly is higher and self-assessment of satisfaction with life is lowest. The Ombudsman also regularly warns that only by properly regulating long-term care will we give a clear message to society about the value of life in all lifetimes and respect for human dignity. At the same time, however, it points out in its report that the long-term supply law will not solve all problems as well. According to the Ombudsman, the response to a long-lived company is not in the opinion of the Ombudsman to increase capacity in institutions. I want to say that in Slovenia we already have a high percentage of people over 65 in pension homes, 1 out of every 4 men over 65 years old. As can be seen, the number of people in nursing homes has increased by as much as 15% over the last eight years. 15% of the increase in the living of older people is in pension homes, says also at the expense of new capacities. So that the deception that we have not built in the 15 years of no home must be made clear and precise, no public house, but certainly a huge, few concession houses have been built. Here there were also certain municipalities, including mine, innovative and in some ways addressing the lack of institutional protection. But, as we say, we need to work harder and talk in the direction of deinstitutionalisation. I think that even now, at the time of spreading this unwanted virus, if we had smaller institutions, smaller groups of units, we would have made it easier to infect everything than in these large institutions. Of course, we all want the law on long-term care to be fixed as soon as possible, so that people — because most people, especially in rural areas, do not want to go to their homes, want to be at home — can live as long as possible either at home or in some smaller community. It is my desire, indeed, that this should be settled in this mandate, because we have been talking about this for too long. What else would you point out that I'm not going to repeat myself too much? So the recommendation, as we say, is a lot. Last year, there were 88, 158, 200 unrealized. I suppose, however, that the level of human rights in Slovenia is relatively high. I assume that this number of recommendations that are growing year after year is, in fact, our desire or our demand for the level of rights to rise further, and that is also a great deal of these recommendations. They are also saddened by the fact that some are repeated because certain ministries or municipalities or other institutions have failed to implement them. Those who need to be implemented on the basis of a change of law, I believe, I see, I know that this usually lasts more than a year, and some of the recommendations are one that can be implemented without having to be a legislative change, but it is only necessary to change the way they work. So I think most of the recommendations have been made to realize, a large majority. At times, however, there may not be a single solution, or perhaps it is not exactly the best solution as stated in the recommendation, so I would like to see more cooperation between the Ombudsman's institution and the competent ministries and to find together the best solution that is truly possible for our citizens. I thank you for this report, for this mirror, and I wish that as many of these recommendations could be implemented and that the second year would be precisely because of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u47	Thank you very much. As the final debater, Mrs Lidija Ivanuš is given the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u48	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Since I have listened to all the debaters, I would say that given that we are considering the Ombudsman's annual report, we are the first to respect each other, as I have already said in my position. And I appeal to all present, but above all to the Vice-President, who calmly allows the debate of members of the opposition and does not draw attention to Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that the speaker may only speak on the issue on the agenda. I ask you what the President of the Government has to do with the 2019 report, what do you have to do with this, colleague Jože Tanko and Jan Mahnič or any of these persons. This government, despite the difficult situation we are facing in the current situation of the epidemic, is doing much better and operationally than you have done so far in normal situations. Let me remind you that in recent years, including 2019, you have been in power and that you have not looked in the mirror, are afraid of reflections or have forgotten to clear yourself. You defend people who, by their activities and their failure to respect the measures every day, violate human rights and endanger the health of not only individuals but society as a whole. Finally, as I have already said, we support the Ombudsman's report and hope that the new recommendations and past, unfulfilled, will be implemented as much as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Madam Ambassador. Now I must respond to your warning. I listened carefully to all the discussions. I think your warning flies to Mr. Duck, if I'm not mistaken, who read your government members. In my opinion, this content of these tweets was entirely in place if we know that the Ombudsman is concerned with all human rights that affect every individual. And one of human rights, I believe you know that, is also the human right to honor and a good name. And that's what Member Duck talked about, so I don't see any problem here if we're even discussing this in this house. So much in response to your warning. In view of the fact that we have exhausted the list of discussers, we are moving to the conclusion of the debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposalr will be given the floor. First, the representative of the Government, Secretary of State, Mr Zupan, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you for your word. In fact, I would like to share, if possible, with my colleague Secretary of State Kangler. I'll start by saying thank you for your discussion. I think it is very good to see where those fundamental problems are, unfortunately, especially in the social field. It is also right that the Ombudsman points out this, because it is also a question of the protection of human rights. I would only point to one thing which I think may have been a little misunderstood in the debate – regarding the government's response methodology to the Ombudsman's annual report. We at the Ministry of Justice have been preparing this for several years now, trying to unify the methodology in the sense that the assessment or self-assessment by one scale cannot be said to look only at what is realized or partially realized, but the rest is in the same bag. I point out, above all, where the department recognizes that something of his is a permanent task. This means that he is aware that this problem must be tackled through. Let me give you an example, at the Ministry of Justice, where we do not reject any recommendation for 2019. None. We have had several warnings over the past years, the Ombudsman's recommendations to improve the accessibility of justice facilities for displaced persons. Now those of you who say you read carefully will probably notice that this year this wasn't in, which doesn't mean it's not our job. And in 2018, we were exposed in the Ombudsman's annual report as an example of good practice, because in 2017 we created a project task to address accessibility problems for roadblocks. It was mainly vertical accessibility, the right accessibility through elevators to the import platform and so on. The analysis dealt with 34 locations and gave some solutions, which of course are now being taken into account when the documentation is being produced. On this basis we have already obtained a building permit for a judicial building in Kranj, Celje, Slovenj Gradc, Brežica, in Jesenice we are now acquiring. But we've already built a platform in Koper and an elevator in Nova Gorica. We are doing this every year in line with the opportunities we have under public funding. In 2019, to say the CRP research project also launched the mobility of functionally obstructed persons in judicial institutions. It also examines horizontal accessibility solutions, and here I am talking about how public transport is, how parking is for the disabled and how access is mainly to councils within the building. Some systemic solutions will also be proposed here. A website will also be created where you can see locations that have some kind of access. This is a constant work, and we are also aware of this when we adapt the closures. You know what they're like, and today it's also been mentioned, we've got a thousand 400 prisoners in prison, 400 of them in custody. I'm talking about an average of 106 percent. Here the answer, or solution, is very clear, but both are new. The funding will now, in principle, be provided for the next two years, so that we can do this. But I am not just talking about solutions in terms of more capacity, but also about solutions on the quality of these spaces both employed and closed. You know, if our old population is different, this also applies to the prison population. And so these new constructions will allow, because it is a modular construction, appropriate space for those older people who have to stop the prison sentence. The lack of judicial officers was also mentioned. You know we work here, ten calls a year, the response is relatively low. The Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions is at each job fair, promoting the profession and so on. We are now thinking about one project of the so-called law enforcement academy, following the excellent example of the police. Why is he going? In order to obtain the formal education of the sixth grade. We think that this would raise a little interest in this profession, which has fallen mainly with the exit from the economic crisis. I would also like to highlight the issue of bilinguality. We're active here, too. In fact, the whole government is now preparing a new plan of action for the realization of the rights of the Italian and Hungarian nationalities communities for 2021-2025. We're in the process of recasting bilingual envelope translations. I just found out that it's just before they're being referred to the Supreme Court, where they're being printed. And our education centre regularly conducts Italian and Hungarian education for representatives of the judiciary in the area of bilingualism. Even now, in autumn we had some of these trainings under harsh conditions. Children and criminal justice. Here we are conceptually sorry in 1957. We're gonna have to move something forward here. You know that in the normative work programme we have a special law that will be the basis for the initial pilot project of the so-called children's house, which is expected to take place in autumn next year, if that is the case. But I've explained more about this on the committee. I would also point out the proposal for a law on criminal procedure O, which the Government has already submitted to the National Assembly for consideration, where we raise the standard of protection of the rights of juvenile offenders. However, I can also say that we are working at the Ministry to obtain financial resources under the so-called technical assistance for one project, which will address in particular the issue of the provision of a safety measure of psychiatric treatment for minors. Here, however, institutional solutions are not the most appropriate and we are promising from this one-year project some solution based also on good practices from abroad, especially through Germany. That's it. And these cross-cutting problems, which are the problems of more than one department, which are the most difficult because one department is citing to the other. We also have some of those transversals. I would point out, above all, clinical psychologists, the lack and impact on the work of the judiciary. Here, let me say that every time we have a call to appoint new experts, we include the whole psychology in these calls twice a year. Last year we also had four courses for training or education within the framework of the Centre for Justice Education. Two have dropped out due to lack of candidates, two deadlines have been successfully implemented, and since then we have four new experts in this area. However, we are aware that this is one demanding profession, because it is indeed a profession, and also in our communication with the Ministry of Health, we are working to ensure that as many specialisations are financed as possible. The Ministry of Health shall ensure that it finances all the specialisations it receives proposals for. I'd only like so much for this narrow area, I think it's fine. Now, I would like to ask the president, if my colleague can speak as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u51	Sure. First, the Secretary of State, Mr Kangler, will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I would like to complement the Secretary of State with some views from the Ministry of the Interior. I'd like to touch some of the recommendations. We at the Ministry of the Interior are examining each report and every recommendation we receive from the Ombudsman thoroughly. Above all, we can stress that cooperation between the services of the Ministry of Human Rights and the service of the Ombudsman is excellent, and we are trying to improve it. At the time of the Deputy’s performance, we can find that the Deputy was not critical of certain procedures within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Slovenian Police. However, allow me to touch some of the recommendations. Recommendation 50 concerning the Aliens Act, I am very pleased that the European Court of Human Rights, by judgment 8675/15 of 13. 2. 2020 has taken an important decision. And this decision is also a guide for the work of all bodies within the European Union and those who respect this court, so I expect some opposition Members to respect this decision when adopting this law, the Aliens Act, where individual persons in 2020 have received it against Spain. This is also a fundamental basis for amending the law, which is also being prepared by the Ministry. Recommendation 84 and 86 also applies in particular to foreigners, in particular to foreigners in the part where we talk about foreigners of minors and children. We must openly acknowledge that the police here are treating these children in accordance with all the rules and standards that are within the European Union and also with the Slovenian legal order as necessary because it is a very sensitive topic. This is a very sensitive topic, and I must admit that police officers are doing their job well. There are some complications, but all foreigners arriving in Slovenia do not come with the same aim to respect the rule of law and the rule of law of the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, recommendation 138 and 139 of the Ombudsman discusses complaints through police procedures. Here, too, I must say that the Directorate for Police within the Ministry of Internal Affairs is consistently considering each complaint, and in particular every initiative we receive from the Ombudsman, we are consistently examining, and in particular, the activities carried out by the Directorate and the Ministry of the Interior, even immediately and within 30 days. If there is a delay in reporting for objective and subjective reasons, we shall also inform the Ombudsman. As regards the participation of the Ministry of the Interior and the authorities in the composition of the police with the Ombudsman and some of the recommendations in the reports, we are consistently studying and respecting and striving to follow the recommendations of the Ombudsman. Of course, I also have to touch on the discussions of some individuals in this National Assembly. I am glad that the opposition has also found that this is a mirror of the past. Ms Muršič, honourable Member, argued that since 2013, the Government has not followed or eliminated the recommendations of the Ombudsman. It is not likely that Janez Janš’s tweets in 2020 are guilty of some condition which was 2015, 2016, 2017. Really, it's the past. Me or the future. The government, ministers and all those who participate in the government are working to follow this 2019 recommendation for 2020 and 2021. This year, not all the recommendations we received on the table or inherited from the previous government can be deleted from the 2019 report of the Ombudsman. However, I am convinced that everything that is possible in 2021 in the area of the adoption of the normative activities of the Government and the National Assembly, that the Government will do its utmost to follow all the recommendations and mistakes and comments. At the Ministry of Internal Affairs, however, we welcome the activities of the Ombudsman, and we especially take him as a partner, which reminds us where, when, and how to follow some of the recommendations that the mistakes that are being made would no longer be brought about by complaints and similar things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Now, Mr Orehvec, the Secretary of State, gets the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u54	Madam President, thank you so much for your words. Hello, distinguished Members, the Guardian's representatives, colleagues! It is still possible by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. My assessment, therefore, is that cooperation with the Ombudsman is good to respond to all the questions and recommendations we receive from the outside. I mean, there might have been a little more of them now, but I think we've responded to everything correctly. As far as these recommendations are concerned, they are very different, some of them can be quickly removed or implemented, and some are those for which we may need a few years to realize them, especially when it comes to legal matters or matters such as those related to the accessibility of persons with disabilities to our institutions. Of course, it was said that we had no solution. True, some institutions do, but some do not. I would like to point out that secondary schools, student homes, higher education institutions linked to research activities are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. We have an accurate record of what is going on with these institutions, and there is also a timeline in preparation and a way to ensure accessibility for disabled persons in these institutions. Of course, we have also approached this recommendation to explore how it is also in the area of kindergartens and primary schools, which, although within the competence of local communities and also local communities, are responsible for establishing this. So we will also alert the local communities when we have an analysis in this area. However, I agree that this needs to be handled as best as possible, of course as soon as possible, but to a large extent it depends on the financial resources. All those constructions that have been there lately are arranged, and in schools and kindergartens that are 50 years of age or older, it will probably take a little more time and money. Perhaps I should respond to the debate of Member Predrag Baković, who discussed children in kindergartens, especially in Roma, where he said only 14. And then he talked about punishing or somehow sanctioning those parents who don't send children to kindergarten. I would like to say above all that the involvement of children in kindergartens in our country is voluntary. It means that the parent has decided whether or not to include the child in the kindergarten. It is true, however, that the Ministry of Education encourages parents to include children as much as possible in kindergarten, as analyses show that success in primary school in those children who are naturally involved is greater than if they were not involved. As for the Roma children themselves, I would particularly urge the parents of these children to actually include children in kindergarten, as we note that many children who come to school do not speak Slovenian and, of course, this creates a greater problem in education. That is why, of course, at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, we have also prepared a so-called shorter free programme, namely 240 hours to encourage those parents who did not include a child in kindergarten until a certain age to do so. We have also adapted it in some way so that it could also be possible in these so-called local communities, where the Roma population, especially in the south-eastern region, can also be organised here in smaller groups closer to Roma settlements and, of course, that the smaller groups can also include relatives and, of course, if necessary, transport. Of course, all of this is within the project Together for Knowledge, this is the European project of the Centre for School and School Activities, which, through this project, has also raised or educated so-called Roma assistants, who are somehow a link between school, kindergarten and Roma settlements. In some ways, we see an opportunity here to encourage and in some way establish the trust of these Roma families to involve children in kindergartens. I think that these Roma assistants here have already had some success at this time, but of course it will take a lot of time and, of course, money to get this to a satisfactory level. Here, of course, the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport plans that these so-called Roma assistants should also be systematised and, in some way, legalized so that this issue in this area will of course flow better. Maybe just one more thing that I would like to say is that recommendation number 34, which was from 2014 and talks about the problem of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems, now you see that it took six years to finally get the law, I think next month, here before you and we will be able to resolve the Ombudsman's recommendation together after six years. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, the Deputy Ombudsman, Mr Miha Horvat, shall have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u56	Thank you, Madam Vice President, again, for your word. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members and honourable Members for all the kind words, praises and support. Of course, we are always happy, and so is today. We have also not heard certain criticisms about our work and related proposals for improvement. I assure you that we are taking them as a well-intentioned criticism and that we will also have a serious discussion with Mr Sveto as well. On this occasion, however, I would have responded immediately to that criticism of the Ombudsman’s field work, saying that there is not much of us in the country but that we do not even hope to enter Romani settlements and so forth. In short, we're working things out at the office. As far as Roma settlements are concerned, I would like, at least as far as 2019 is concerned, to recall once again our famous electronic version of the report, eight-sided and, of course, to report on which Roma settlements we visited in 2019 – Frog, Brezje and so on. We also visited Kočevje very early in 2020 and visited several of these locations in cooperation with the mayor and so on. Then, of course, the situation of coronaryism changed significantly and we were able to postpone further such activities for a while. However, if it goes back to the past, let us say in 2018 we also visited or reported a visit to many Roma settlements, from Draškovec, Mihovice, Drama, Roj, Trdinova and so on, in that more St. So much for that. As for the other appearance in the field outside the office, I would like to point out in particular that those 12 offices outside our headquarters are only regularly scheduled visits to the congregations chosen, it is said, every month. These visits are also multiday, especially in some major city halls, and it is this way that we want to approach all those who cannot or otherwise find it difficult to get to our headquarters or to contact us by telephone, email, letters, or mail, and so on. These are regular, planned visits, and, of course, we are constantly carrying out, both in the collective and the Ombudsman himself, a whole bunch more, I will say, sporadic, previously unplanned visits. It is a matter of visits in various specific matters. So, visiting the instigators at home, again for similar reasons, if they cannot reach us, for such or other reasons, or for any other reason, we can better determine what this is about, there, directly in place. Of course, there are also visits to various police stations. Most of the time, this is done in the context of these operations outside the seat, of course in addition to the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism, then CSDs, VDCs and so on. In fact, we must at least reject these findings in principle. Of course, we want to be even more among the people, but we also need to take our work burden into account, which is, as I said, in fact 3,000 initiatives a year and, of course, we need to focus on this in offices. Of course, of course, we are not just in favour of office work, on the contrary, and we also think that we can make this very clear, and we have also shown this in all of the previous annual reports. Of course, based on these responses, we will make sure that these forms of our work are more recognizable to you and, of course, to people. Thank you all again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? [[No, no, ……]] There is no interest, so I conclude the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday 27 October 2020 in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REPORT OF THE PROTECTOR OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE OBJECTIVES OF THE NATIONAL PREVENTIVE MECHANISM UNDER THE OPTIONAL PROTOCOL TO THE UN CONVENTION AGAINST Torture AND OTHER CURRENT, HUMAN OR DEGRATE PENSIONAL OR EQUINATION FOR 2019 The report was submitted to the Ombudsman for consideration. I give the text to the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman Ivan Shelih for further explanation of the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u58	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! Once again, welcome on behalf of the entire institution of the Ombudsman. As Head of the State Preventive Mechanism, I would like to present the current report of the State Preventive Mechanism in the Ombudsman and, of course, also on my behalf. The mandate and powers of the National Preventive Mechanism under the Law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment have been exercised by our institution for 12 years, since 2008. Our task in this area is to strengthen the protection of persons who have been deprived of their liberty against torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In this context, our colleagues and I visit those places in Slovenia where individuals who have been deprived of their liberty by an act of authority could or could be installed. These are so-called preventive visits aimed at preventing torture or other ill-treatment before it happens. In this area we actively cooperate with representatives of NGOs registered in the Republic of Slovenia and organizations that have acquired the status of a humanitarian organisation in our country. We choose these organisations on the basis of a call for tender, and we will deal with them in more detail with the contracts. On the spot of deprivation of liberty in Slovenia, we check how it is taken care of and how they treat individuals who are deprived of their liberty in individual institutions. In doing so, we work closely with the competent authorities, make recommendations to improve the situation and treatment of these persons, and most importantly, we demand consistent respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance with applicable international standards. Let me say that last year we visited 63 places of deprivation of liberty, namely 27 police stations, and in this context we also visited the Centre for Detention in Ljubljana, visited 6 institutions for the stay of prison sentences and the Reeducational House of Radeče, also visited the Centre for Foreigners, two psychiatric hospitals, 19 social institutions, it was homes for older people, and 4 educational institutions or youth homes, and several housing groups operating within these institutions, and we also visited a centre for training, work and protection. Virtually all visits were unannounced. In 37 cases, regular visits were made, and on 13 occasions on the spot we checked the actual implementation of the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism from previous visits in practice. We also made a so-called thematic visit in 13 cases, which means that we were focused on a pre-selected topic. For example, in cooperation with an expert in the medical profession in nursing homes, we checked the treatment of the elderly during the evening hours. In particular, we have been paying particular attention to the treatment that residents receive, especially the restrooms. In the Centre for Training, Work and Protection, we have examined the freedom of movement of users and individual protected measures. In educational institutions, however, the exercise of rights and educational measures. Let me inform you that we have also prepared a comprehensive final report on each visit on the findings, including proposals and recommendations for addressing identified irregularities and, of course, to improve the situation, including measures to reduce the potential for future misconduct. As usual, we have also sent each report to the competent authority, which is the parent body of the visited institution, to respond to our findings and recommendations within a certain period of time. The National Preventive Mechanism made 416 recommendations together last year, most of them to police stations and homes for the elderly, followed by prisons, the Radecé educational home, the psychiatric hospital, the Centre for Foreigners and educational institutions. In view of the areas concerned, the main recommendations concerned housing conditions and records and documentation, treatment and forms of work, and legal protection and complaint channels. Our other recommendations concerned staff, health care, activities, treatment of unwanted behaviour, contacts with the outside world, nutrition, and general and other issues. We are pleased that we can generally commend the relatively good responses of the competent authorities to all our findings and recommendations. We are most pleased with them, as they often respond actively to our recommendations and show their willingness to cooperate. We also note that the institutions visited are, in particular, trying to take all necessary measures to improve their competence. However, we want even more creative cooperation with the competent ministries, especially when it comes to issues that require systemic change. In this direction we will certainly have to take a number of steps further. One of them is certainly in the area of consistent implementation of the Ombudsman's recommendations. It is unacceptable that 28 of our recommendations in the field of the National Preventive Mechanism of the competent institution have not been taken into account and 10 of our recommendations have not been responded at all. With regard to some of the recommendations still pending an answer, we expect the institutions to take into account all our recommendations, of course. It is certainly encouraging that the State Preventive Mechanism did not identify cases of torture in its visits last year. We can be satisfied with this because it says that our preventive action has its effects. We also believe that because of the improvements in the housing situation and treatment of persons deprived of their liberty in many institutions visited, all of our recommendations have improved. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make special arrangements for visits to nursing homes. In these visits, we have found for years that there are major problems with obtaining a legal basis for detention in homes where the protection of the occupant is not carried out by locking down the department. We have also found that procedures to confirm protected departments at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities are taking place, but too slowly. It also takes eight years. The extremely small number of confirmed protected departments has certainly caused the situation where, due to the accommodations determined by the court, despite the negative opinion of the home of the older departments for the demented ones, they are overstretched. Dearly-appreciated hoarders! On the basis of visits to the place of deprivation of liberty, the State preventive mechanism also manages a number of other tasks. If I conclude; with regular visits to the place of deprivation of liberty, we will continue actively in the future and, of course, make recommendations based on our findings to improve the situation where it is necessary. We will therefore remain active in the national and also in the international field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The report was considered by the Commission as a parent labour force for petitions, human rights and equal opportunities and drafted a proposal for a recommendation from the National Assembly. I give the floor to Vice-President Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Good-bye, everybody! As Vice-President of the Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, I will present the Report to the Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Treatment for 2019. The Commission for Petitions, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities is at its 10th meeting. Ten. 2020 addressed the report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the DPM tasks submitted by the Ombudsman under Article 43 of the Law on the Ombudsman to the National Assembly. The purpose of the State Preventive Mechanism is to protect persons deprived of their liberty from torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In this role, he visits those places in Slovenia where, or could be, the accommodation of persons deprived of their liberty by an act of authority. This is done in cooperation with selected NGOs and together they check how individuals deprived of their liberty are treated. They shall cooperate with the supervisory authorities, make recommendations to them and at the same time require consistent respect for human rights and freedoms in accordance with international standards. In 2019 they visited 63 places of deprivation of liberty, of which 27 police stations, 6 institutions for prison terms and the Radecé Home of Education, a centre for foreigners, two psychiatric hospitals, 19 social welfare institutions or the home of the elderly and 4 educational institutions or youth homes. Each visit was subject to a comprehensive final report on their findings, including proposals and recommendations to address the irregularities identified. In 2019, DPM made as many as 416 recommendations, mostly to police stations and homes for the elderly. The reactions of the organs are largely satisfied because they respond relatively well. However, it is unacceptable that 28 recommendations from the competent institutions did not take into account that there was no response at all to the 10 recommendations. However, it is encouraging that, in all its visits in 2019, DPM did not identify cases of torture or other cruel punishment or conduct. In particular, he highlighted visits to nursing homes where there are significant difficulties in obtaining a legal basis for detention in homes where the protection of residents is not carried out by locking in the department. He again pointed out the human resources crisis in nursing homes, which also appears in a modest number of employees during the night. There is still a lack of space in prisons and a lack of judicial officers, and insufficient progress has been made in the preparation of appropriate legislation to help solve systemic problems. Representatives of the Government, representative of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for the enforcement of criminal sanctions, representative of the Ministry of Health, received the text. The Commission adopted a proposal for a recommendation where the National Assembly recommends that all competent national and other authorities take all necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The Government's opinion will be presented by Matic Zupan, State Secretary of the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u62	Mr President, thank you for saying so. As I have already said, following the consideration of the previous item on the agenda, part of this joint report by the Government is also the response of the authorities to the Ombudsman's report on the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. This part of the joint response report differs from the remaining two parts after the Government does not assess and explain the implementation of individual recommendations, but only provides a substantively responsive individual response statement to the Ombudsman. A different approach is due, in particular, to the fact that the Ombudsman also makes recommendations here, not in his report, but to the institutions he visits or to the competent authorities, but in the final reports after individual visits. The review of the implementation of over 400 recommendations issued by the Ombudsman on the occasion of a visit to 63 places of deprivation of liberty is generally unannounced, as has been said, as is the case with only the Ombudsman's report. In its report on the implementation of the tasks of the National Preventive Mechanism for 2019, the Ombudsman cites several challenges that will need to be addressed in the future. Most of the recommendations concern police stations, nursing homes and detention facilities. The issue of Radeč’s Reeducation Home is also highlighted in particular. Notwithstanding the above, I no doubt estimate that the Ombudsman's message is mostly positive. The Ombudsman points out, and most importantly, that no cases of torture could be observed in 2019 and that the situation in the premises of deprivation of liberty is improving. It also assesses that the responses of the institutions in most cases are satisfactory and that the authorities are endeavouring to take the measures it recommends. Those deprived of their liberty are one of the most vulnerable groups of the population and it is crucial that the competent institutions give them the most attention possible. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia will therefore take these recommendations seriously in the future and continue to strive to improve the spatial and other conditions at places of deprivation as well as to address other irregularities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by Yuri Leipzig, who will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Retired Persons. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the Ministry, representatives of the Ombudsman, colleagues and colleagues! Although we are in the 21st century, we must be aware that there is still torture and other cruel inhuman and degrading punishments in the world. Fortunately, in most of the Western Council, there are regulatory and preventive mechanisms that largely prevent such condemnations from treating persons deprived of their liberty or being placed in different protective institutions. In the context of the State Preventive Mechanism, the field presence pays particular attention to places where individuals deprived of their liberty are placed. There is a great deal of praise to the Ombudsman, who actively cooperates with various representatives of non-governmental and humanitarian organisations. The dialogue that has been established between the various stakeholders brings tangible results in a better attitude towards the individuals deprived of their liberty and to the institutions where they are located. Here are considered both police stations as well as institutions for the cessation of prison sentences, educational homes, the Centre for Foreigners, psychiatric hospitals and other institutions or homes. These visits were quite 63 in 2019, which is something to be commended in particular. The recommendations transmitted to these institutions in the framework of the reports were a major indicator of the progress that has been made in recent years. Good results and taking into account the recommendations of the State Preventive Mechanism are also reflected in the longer term. We can also consider great progress in improving the housing situation and dealing with individuals in these institutions. However, there is a need to highlight the problem in nursing homes because there are time and bureaucratic complications by setting up protective departments in nursing homes. That's why these departments are so busy. Protectors of these homes, who often suffer from dementia, should receive special care because they are one of the most vulnerable groups within the home for the elderly. In particular, the Ombudsman highlights the over-occupation of social security institutions, which result in inadequate housing conditions, insufficient treatment of persons employed in them and excessive staff burdens. The situation in this area has not improved in 2019 and remains worrying. Lack of staff and overcrowding in the home for the elderly also suffers from basic care for the elderly themselves. The Ombudsman also points to the hygiene situation among residents, where some bathe only every 14 days. In the Desus Group we welcome the work done by the Ombudsman with the team. In addition to working and coordinating with various stakeholders, institutions across Slovenia are also exemplaryly concerned with the international activity and visibility of our progress against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading penalties of persons who have been deprived of their liberty or are placed in various protective institutions. Our experts are also actively advising other countries where state preventive mechanisms are still being developed or where full improvements are needed. At the end of the day, I would like to commend the well-prepared report of the Ombudsman. In the Desus Group, we stress that the Ombudsman’s task is by no means easy or negligible. The reports prepared each year also contain not only recommendations, but also proposals, opinions, criticisms and findings of the reality in Slovenia. I wish you to continue your successful work and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Lidija Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u66	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Say good-bye to everyone again! From the 2019 Report, the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia carried out the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Punishment or the conduct of 63 visits to Slovenia, where individuals who have been deprived of their liberty by an act of authority are placed. At this point, I would like to highlight the pro-active role of the Ombudsman and all participants in field visits that took place in 2019, compared to last year's less. This role of the Ombudsman as a DPM is also reflected in the fact that in many institutions visited the conditions of stay have improved or the competent authorities have tried to take all necessary measures to improve. As key findings and recommendations on visits to the homes of older citizens, they state the good work performed by employees, which is commendable here. In the SDS, we are aware that DSO employees are also facing a number of problems that could be addressed through systemic solutions to sectoral legislation. Let's say I expose the human resources crisis, the difficulty in getting a legal basis for keeping people home, for example, with dementia. On the other hand, because of poor housing conditions, they also face the dissatisfaction of the family members of these caregivers, who are placed in inappropriate premises. When visiting psychiatric hospitals as an example of good living conditions, he highlighted children's psychiatry in Ljubljana and concerns about the implementation of recommendations in some psychiatric hospitals, to which it is worth noting. When visiting educational institutions and youth homes, they find that institutions have rules of conduct and conduct written down in different forms. This calls on the Ministry of Education to prepare an adequate legal basis for the rules of conduct and conduct in educational institutions in the event of individual infringements. Regarding visits to police stations, recommendations are well implemented. They note that police have taken account of the rights to international protection, but point to human rights violations arising from trafficking in human beings, which are becoming a serious problem in the current situation. The Ombudsman, within the framework of the DPM, lists the consistent and very good implementation of the recommendations in the Centres for Foreigners, which is reflected also in the living conditions of these centres, which are improving and tending to eliminate human rights violations as soon as possible or to avoid them at all. In his report, he also highlighted the problem of overcrowding of prisons. While it is commendable that more recommendations have been made than in previous years, they continue to face shortages of staff, professional work with prisoners and security, such as judicial officers. We have already read many detailed facts and findings in the report and have heard in a truly comprehensive presentation of the Ombudsman's representatives. However, all of us, who, in our work, are in contact with many citizens who are addressing us with situations of life in which human rights violations are actually occurring, are also obliged to keep this in mind. In the SDS, we will support the DPM report under the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment. I sincerely thank you for your work and continue to work successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dearly beloved, colleagues and colleagues! We have yet another very important report ahead of us. For 12 years, the Ombudsman has checked the protection of persons in institutions against torture or other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. These are preventive visits aimed at preventing torture or other misconduct before it happens. In 2019, the Ombudsman visited 63 places, from police stations, to detention facilities and the Radeca Home of Education, the Centre for Foreigners, two psychiatric hospitals, nursing homes, educational institutions or youth homes, and several residential groups operating within these institutions. It is encouraging that even in 2019 the Ombudsman did not find any cases of torture or other degrading punishment or conduct. However, it is necessary to recognize the dangers that problems such as overcrowding of special social security institutions or non-implementation of recommendations pose as a threat to the emergence of inhuman or degrading behaviour. In his report, the Ombudsman particularly highlighted visits to nursing homes. He reiterated his difficulty in obtaining a legal basis for detention in homes where the protection of residents is not carried out by locking down the department. And that procedures for the certification of protected departments at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities are too slow, as they last up to 8 years. It points out that the protected departments are understaffed and that departments are overstretched for persons with dementia. He even found that the person with dementia was placed in the bathroom because of the full department. This, of course, is absolutely unacceptable. The Court has already stated that the placement of persons in corridors, common spaces or in an environment where adequate therapeutic treatment is not provided is not acceptable either in terms of constitutional rights of the person being installed or in terms of constitutional rights of other users. Let us mention again the human resources crisis in nursing homes. The Ombudsman notes that, due to lack of staff, residents are still digging in unreasonablely long distances, even for 14 days. There is no doubt that the lack of staff is also a reason for early beding during the evening, which makes residents more likely to wake up at night, thus increasing the use of sleepers. Unfortunately, recommendations on psychiatric hospitals are also repeated each year. In 2019, the Ombudsman thus reiterated the need for adequate ventilation of departments, for the installation of the relevant complaints, commendations and proposals, for a recommendation on the need for due diligence when the consent of the patient is given to be placed on a section under special supervision and at the time of its withdrawal of such consent. For many years, the Ombudsman has pointed to the urgent adoption of the Law on Mental Health. The Constitutional Court has also instructed the Government to quote: “Without undue delay, it will have to take necessary organisational measures to ensure adequate spatial capacity to enable both the protective and the therapeutic objectives of the measure to be implemented. [[…]] It will also have to adopt measures for urgent human resources adjustments. Today, psychiatric care is still stigmatized. We still experience mental problems as something shameful, and it is still too common for psychiatric patients to find themselves pushed to the brink of society. Therefore, awareness of psychiatric disorders is particularly important. It is a worrying fact that the latest data show that the mental health of young people is deteriorating. The rapid pace of life, social networks, new forms of technology unfortunately contribute to poor mental health especially for young people who are so much more psychologically and socially vulnerable. There is still a problem with the overcrowding of individual prisons, and there is a shortage of employees, especially of law enforcement officers. The Ombudsman also notes that the conditions of imprisonment or detention for women are in certain areas, for example with regard to the reception of visits, worse than for men. The Ombudsman drew particular attention to the recommendation to improve the work of migrants or refugees, in particular minors, on the speed of escort. It is very obvious that there is still room for improvement of both legislation and practical implementation. For this reason, the Social Democrats appeal to the competent institutions to follow the Ombudsman's recommendations, as we owe it to our citizens and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Ambassador of the Left Group will be moved by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u70	Your Honor! Thank you very much, but thank you very much for our disinfectant, who has been working really hard here all day. Now for the report. The Law on the ratification of the Optional Protocol, Article 5, provides that the tasks and powers of the State Preventive Mechanism shall be reduced by the DPM and shall be exercised by the Ombudsman, whose task is to protect persons deprived of their liberty from torture and other forms of cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. In Levica every year, we carefully examine the report on the work of the Ombudsman, which implements this programme or protocol of the programme. And the actual report of the State Preventive Mechanism, DPM, for 2019, has already been printed in a separate publication for the 12th row, as mentioned earlier, but as part of the regular report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2019. The Ombudsman carried out tasks under the Programme of the State Preventive Mechanism in 2019 in cooperation with NGOs. There were 41 participants from 9 selected NGOs. Within the framework of the State Preventive Mechanism, the Ombudsman visited 63 different locations of deprivation of liberty in 2019. We are pleased to learn from the Ombudsman that in many institutions visited in 2019, the Ombudsman’s recommendations made improvements in the living conditions and treatment of persons deprived of their liberty. It is also very encouraging that during their visits in 2019 no cases of torture or other cruel punishment or conduct were identified. However, there are still several reasons for concern. Visits to nursing homes again revealed problems with obtaining a legal basis for detention in homes where the protection of residents is not carried out by locking down the department. Procedures for the certification of protected departments at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities are under way, but are too slow. Unfortunately, the department of demented guards has been over-occupied. Unfortunately, even in 2019, the problem of human resources distress in nursing homes is again observed, which unfortunately is the worst we experience in times of coronary crisis. This is shown in a small number of employees at night when many times, and it's uninterrupted, there's no one in the security department. In one of the homes, however, it was found that because of the lack of staff, residents bathe in unreasonablely long distances. The lack of staff is also a reason to put the lodgers to bed early, making them more likely to wake up at night and thus increasing the use of sleepers. Here are also warnings from the Ombudsman from the State Preventive Mechanism regarding multiple rooms, where they are installed by four residents together or more, and about the difficulties in operating the emergency call system. It is a shame that almost all or at least a large majority of the homes for the elders to whom the Ombudsman made recommendations have not been implemented. They were accepted, but unfortunately they didn't. There is still a pressing problem with the lack of space in the institutions to end the prison sentence and the lack of judicial officers. It is also very worrying to repeat some of the recommendations concerning psychiatric hospitals. It is positive, however, that when visiting the intensive children's and adolescent psychiatric unit of the University Psychiatric Clinic Ljubljana, it was found that the conditions for children to stay in this institution are good. I am also very concerned about certain educational measures, such as restricting home for the end of the week, impounding a mobile phone, redressing the damage that constitutes excessive interference with the rights of children and adolescents living in the educational institution. The institutions that carry out the educational and educational programmes of children and adolescents have different rules of conduct and conduct and procedures of educational action in the event of infringements. However, for the adoption of internal acts by such rules, institutions do not have the appropriate legal basis. When preparing a new law that will regulate the field of education and deal with children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems or disorders, it is therefore wise to regulate this very legal basis. We would like to draw attention to the problem of restricting the movement and detention of asylum seekers in the Centre for Foreigners without a legal basis. On his own initiative, the Ombudsman also examined the evidence of the poor situation in the asylum home, as he found more irregularities in the work of police officers, such as in issuing detention decisions, in relation to the knowledge of the rights of detained persons, in relation to the treatment of unaccompanied minors in police proceedings and other matters. The Left has been drawing attention to the problem, which is also mentioned by the still unfulfilled Ombudsman's recommendation to prepare systemic solutions for the proper accommodation of unaccompanied minors, and to recommend that measures be taken to respect the greatest benefit of minors, including by placing them in suitable institutions instead of the Centre for Foreigners. The question of minors and children in the Centre for Foreigners is also raised. According to information provided by the Ombudsman in the implementation of the tasks of the State Preventive Mechanism, 245 unaccompanied minors and 66 accompanying minors were detained in the Centre for Foreigners in 2018. In 2019, 310 children were accommodated there, of which 278 were not accompanied. According to data from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the provision and integration of migrants by the end of 2019, the system of accommodation and treatment of unaccompanied minors has not yet been adopted. We agree with the Ombudsman that the placement of a child or a minor in a closed institution under no circumstances can be of the greatest benefit to him. We, of course, support the report on the work of the State Preventive Mechanism and the Ombudsman in the Left Group. However, there will also be a real situation at this time of the coronavirus with regard to the impact on human rights themselves, and I think that the Ombudsman, as well as this State Operational Mechanism, will further demonstrate the vulnerable points of our society, even Slovenian, and I hope that the reports will always be cheaper, as a fellow Member mentioned earlier. But the best part is that you don't have to write them at all, but I'm afraid that's not going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the Group. The panellists are no longer present. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Would you like a word from the government? I give my word to Matica Zupan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I would only point out, in the introduction, the relationship between the Administration for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions and the State Preventive Mechanism. This is at the same level as, say, the attitude towards supervisory powers that the President of the Court or an authorised supervisory judge, which is also often unannounced, comes into institutions. Personally, I am pleased that this report shows that those problems that plague, I will say, the prison system are objective in nature. We are not talking here about the subjective disadvantage of attitudes towards convicts, on the contrary, this relationship is at a very high level. You know, I'm sure you know that virtually no location currently operated by institutions to end the prison sentence, including the Radeče Home of Education, has been designed to be such an institution. All I can do here is turn off Koper and this new block on the Age, and that's something you know. And so again, there are only two solutions, those two new buildings that are just planned for the next four years. The issue of the ZPKZ has also been highlighted, according to the Institute for the Ending of the Ig Prison Penalty. It's the only women's prison. It's the only prison where women are going to jail. There, let me say that, in addition to the new construction, which is, of course, a medium-term solution, the Directorate for the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions has already joined in this year, and this year will be carried out in November, to redesign certain spaces, which will also allow for contacts, so-called overnight contacts, which the advocate of the principle of equality has pointed out in the end. This is going to happen this year. However, with regard to the human rights crisis of the judicial police, I have somehow presented the plans of the Ministry of Justice in the preceding paragraph, so that I would not burden you with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the Deputy Human Rights Ombudsman, Ivan Shelih? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Of course, all the discussers are grateful for all the commendations or encouraging words we have to say about our work in this area. In particular, we are delighted to be aware of the importance of our activities when it comes to caring for vulnerable groups. For when it comes to visiting persons in our closed institutions, it is, of course, people who are sometimes forgotten. As we have all noted together, it is true that in the case of our visits last year we have not identified torture, but, as has been pointed out, we are alerted to many situations that may or may not be considered inappropriate, unfair treatment of prisoners. Therefore, dialogue with the competent authorities will, of course, continue to be needed to improve the situation of all these persons for the necessary systemic changes. Today, the need for a new Law on Mental Health, the situation of vulnerable prisoners, the lack of staff, staff standards and the like have already been mentioned. Of course, cross-cutting cooperation is also crucial in this area, so I can ensure that these activities continue to be pursued and that we try to work constructively with the competent authorities to make our recommendations more and better every year through visits to the State Preventive Mechanism. Thank you very much again.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate is still running out, I ask if anyone else wishes to discuss it under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly? I see you're not, so I'm closing the debate. The amendments to the proposal for a recommendation were not tabled. The proposal for a recommendation will be decided on Tuesday, 27, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Ten. 2020, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 11. Agenda item — First draft of the Digital Services Tax Act. The proposal for a law was submitted by a group of eight / or 38 for consideration by the assembly?? a Member and Members of the first-signed Luka Mesec. With regard to this bill, a group of 8 Members and Members with the first-signed Luka Mesec requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer, Luke Mescu. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. As foretold, we are beginning to consider the tax law on tax giants. Here we are talking mainly about large multinational companies such as Google, Amazon, Facebook, Apple. We have put the border in Levica on companies that generate more than 750 million euros of income worldwide annually. In short, we're talking about the world's largest companies, the tax giants. Why a special marriage? The fact is that tax legislation in Europe and Slovenia are still geared towards the rules of operation of the 20th century, where taxes are charged where the company is registered, where the company has its registered office. And in the digital world, that makes a lot of difference. In fact, the company can provide services at one end of the world, and taxes are paid or avoided by registering a company at a completely different end of the world. This is what all multinational companies do, they're all involved in tax havens, but it's the easiest thing for digital companies to do. Why? Since digital companies are the easiest to demonstrate that services were provided in a country where they are established or via transfer prices, they are fictitiously transferring these services. A good example of this is, say, the so-called Double Irish, this is an example of an agreement between the Amazon and Ireland. Amazon should pay 35% of the profit tax in the United States. In Ireland, he registered his seat because he paid only 12,5 % there, but Ireland allowed him another hole in the legislation, namely that he transferred most of his profits from Ireland to tax havens, is said to be in countries with even cheaper arrangements, and thus practically avoided paying the tax in its entirety. According to the European Commission, it paid only 0.7% in 2015. What we have prepared in Levica is in fact an initiative that started at the OECD and on the European Commission. The intention of us as a proponent is the same as that of the European Commission and the OECD, and this is to see how digital giants can be fairly taxed so that they can no longer avoid paying taxes as they are now. Digital giants are also the winners of the covido crisis. In fact, while many companies are closed, local do not operate, public life is closed, life is transferred to the Internet and their profits and revenues are flown to the sky. For example, if I give Zoom only, it had 10 million users in December 2019, 4 months later and 300 million users in April 2020. At the same time, it naturally increases its market value, its revenues and its profits. But as we say, we are involved in the fact that countries around the world do not have developed appropriate mechanisms to tax these profits properly. According to FURS, the Financial Administrations of the Republic of Slovenia, the digital giants who are being renegotiated by our law, who carry out more than 750 million worldwide traffic, made about 150 million profits in Slovenia last year, 100 million in traffic, but did not pay a cent in Slovenia for profit. All profits generated with the help of Slovenian users were shown abroad. So, the purpose of our law is to tax these digital giants properly and to start paying taxes where their users are, where they create earnings in the truth, not in the tax havens where they are now being fictitiously tolerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. For the opening presentation, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mag. Kristini Steblaj, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on which this general discussion will take place provides for the taxation of digital services in Slovenia. A unilateral measure seeks to further tax foreign digital corporations that, according to the proposaler in Slovenia, pay only a symbolic amount of value added tax. The government is aware of the fact that digitalisation and modern digital business models require changes in taxation, so the government supports efforts to tax the income of legal persons fairly and fairly. The challenge is global nature, as the proposalr has already explained, so the government supports comprehensive solutions that are globally coordinated. Slovenia is actively active throughout the process of developing a global solution under the OECD. It monitors and responds to the design of the solution. In the event that a global agreement is not soon reached, the Government has already supported the European Commission's announced efforts to jointly regulate the area at European Union level. With regard to the decision of the Finance Committee of April 2019 proposing to the Government the introduction of a digital service tax in Slovenia, the Government explains that a number of research and analysis activities were carried out last year. It was found that the introduction of the tax would result in a series of negative effects, such as undesirable changes in the behaviour of taxpayers, the emergence of certain tax avoidance practices, additional administrative burdens, potential recovery measures by other countries and the transfer of the tax burden from the supplier to the purchaser of digital services. The latter is particularly critical for Slovenian start-up companies, which generally advertise their activities mainly via the internet. Similarly, on 12 October this year, when presenting the digital taxation reports, the OECD stressed the importance of a global solution and warned that the lack of agreement would lead to unilaterally adopted measures that would lead to trade wars, lower tax predictability, a reduction in investments and a global gross domestic product of around 1 per cent. At this point, the government considers the introduction of unilateral solutions to be extremely problematic. It is also retained until the proposal from a substantive point of view, as there is a global debate on substantively different forms of solutions for the fair taxation of the digital economy. In view of the above, the Government cannot support the draft law in such a form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Jani Ivanuša will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u80	Good day to all present, especially to the representatives of the government! Initially, in the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, last March 2019, we have taken the initiative, proposed the introduction of a digital service tax, so that we are pleased that the proposer follows our initiatives and also implements them. At that time, the Ministry of Finance's response was fully awaited, and they replied that we would rather wait for a comprehensive and long-term solution from the European Union, which is what we are now hearing, for a global solution. At European Union level, they are still just talking, so Member States themselves need to ensure fair taxation of online giants. In the Slovenian National Party, we are, in principle, against any new taxes and any increase in taxes. However, since the tax on digital services would tax foreign companies that generate profits in our country, of course we support the introduction of the tax. At the same time, we propose that, at the expense of the additional inflows to the state budget, the taxation of labour in Slovenia be eased. Online multinationals are known for their tax optimisations, which make them able to avoid paying taxes. In accordance with current European Union legislation, technological giants can choose in which of the EU Member States their revenues will be taxed. As a rule, instead of countries where income has actually been generated, incomes are reported in low-tax countries such as Ireland, the Netherlands, Luxembourg. All the smaller Member States of the European Union are considered tax havens of some kind, except Slovenia. The OECD expert said that Slovenia could be the largest tax haven in the EU, but it is not. To the question of why it is not so, he replied: “Because you have no knowledge.” Global tax forums discuss the so-called new tax system of the 21st century. The role of the finance ministry, which I think is not even aware of, is in the development of the Slovenian tax system, but Slovenian policy has no tax vision. The government should attract foreign multinationals with smart and favourable tax policies. In the previous term, the Minister of Economy was very successful in recruiting foreign investors. It is a pity that this success has ceased in this mandate. And a few more words about the content of the current law. Whenever any law is passed, we should first ask ourselves whether we can effectively control the provisions contained in the law. It is stated in the bill that the debtor pays the tax on his own. Online giants in Slovenia are not physically present. With us even physically present, we can't control only the online giants. The question is how will the Financial Administration check their digital presence. The Financial Administration currently does not have any data on the revenues of these companies which are expected to pay a new tax on digital services. No Furs and the Ministry of Finance do not have data on the digital presence and activities of the global multinational digital companies of Slovenia, as they are internal data of these companies, which state institutions cannot reach without an adequate legal basis, have no access. And what will we do if Google does not pay the tax in Slovenia? Is Furs' mobile unit gonna go to Ireland with a clio and recover the tax? The question is, how will Furs check the data on how much worldwide revenue a certain company has? Left-handed people have a mouthful of human rights protection and personal data protection. But in this case, you don't mind that only with all the Slovenes based on IP addresses will they spy on where they are, what applications they use, how much time? The bill states that users would like to be controlled by different geolocation methods. But this is the first arrow on how the constitutional bow works, I wonder. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support such a digital service tax law, which will increase revenue into the national budget and prevent digital giants from shifting the burden of additional tax to Slovenian consumers. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. The Left Group has tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a digital service tax law. The aim of the law is to tax digital companies whose annual income at global level exceeds EUR 700 million. The bill provides for the introduction of a tax on the provision of advertising space in the digital interface, the introduction of a tax to allow users access to a multilateral digital interface and the introduction of a data transfer tax collected on users in digital interfaces. The digitisation period certainly requires adjustments in the tax area as well. However, it is only right that this area should be regulated globally. At the OECD level, activities have been actively engaged for some time in the direction of changing international corporate income tax standards and different tax divisions between countries, in the direction that profits are taxed where they actually occur. In the past, the European Commission has already approached the search for a solution to this problem, but the Council did not adopt the proposal at that time. The European Commission is so aware of the fact that this is a topic that needs to be addressed globally that further steps will be taken on the basis of global solutions. We also believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is necessary to harmonise the tax challenges, to harmonise the taxation of digital enterprises at international level, then at European Union level, and then to implement them into national legislation. The bill before us today will not be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! Following a decision adopted by the Finance Committee during the government of Marjan Šarc, the Ministry of Finance should submit a proposal for a digital service tax this year. To date, however, nothing has happened, although we were able to hear from the President of the Government of Janša in July this year that the digital tax is probably the largest potential source of own resources available to the European Union in the future. According to him, coronaryism has already significantly increased the profits of digital giants. These profits will at least double over the next five years, and taxes are not collected in the Republic of Slovenia at all. In the Maran Sharca page, we agree with this conclusion, without pointing to anyone. However, we do not agree with the Ministry of Finance's excuses, how and why, just now that the time is not right to introduce this tax. Of course, in the temple of democracy, we are used to certain verbal relationships having an occasional undertone. If we hear from the representatives of the departments that they will first examine something in an integrated manner and draw up a systemic solution based on the analysis, experience shows that they will not or will not at least do so in due course. This time, too, we can hear a very good excuse about the introduction of a digital tax, with intensive arrangements being made at OECD level, the Republic of Slovenia actively monitors them and participates in the talks and we expect concrete solutions in a short time. Ladies and gentlemen, this "short" has been going on for quite some time, and we often lose our opportunities too often. This is an important issue, perhaps a key point that we must all face together at this time and make certain decisions about it. Reality is known to all of us. The United States of America has, for years at OECD level, proposed a break in discussions on how to tax digital giants globally. A logical move on their part, protecting the profits of their corporations. The French finance minister commented on this move with the words: “The only people in the world who profited unknowingly during the covid-19 pandemic are probably behind this decision.” A week ago, the head of the negotiating group at the OECD announced that 137 countries, which had been talking for two years about how technological giants would force them to pay the necessary taxes in the countries in which they are operating and operating enormous profits, would not be able to reach an agreement by the end of the year. On the other hand, the fact that the European Commission has proposed possible new sources of own payments in order to reduce the pressure on national budgets and to assist in the repayment of loans by Member States is also binding on us. It has already been accepted by several countries within the European Union. We just don't understand why we keep putting our heads in the sand and waiting for what and when. What and when they'll do for us and make other people's decisions. The fact is, we will have to repay all these loans that we have taken this year and we will take them back in the next two years. We are not sure or we do not know for sure how much this will cost us in the future. Credits that we are now witnessing without this new debt cost us almost 800 million last year — a number that we can at least worry about. But we can be afraid of how many of us these credits with new ones we're going to add to the future. The digital tax is a tax on the future, a tax on the new economy, and its introduction is one of the possible solutions that we now have before us. A solution to how to bring some money into a budget that will be heavily burdened in the future by debt repayment and we will need new resources. While we have a number of concerns and technical issues in the Marjan Šarc list regarding the proposal, which I have raised mainly in the direction of the implementation work. This is the area of tax base determination and fingerprinting. We wonder on what basis a fair and correct calculation of tax value will be made. This is crucial for the tax assessment and, consequently, for the provision of fiscal resources. Much more than a tax rate is an important tax base. They will be the big ones, as we like to call them, Amazon, Facebook, Google, without letting anyone out who would like to be large, really prepared from the services they provide with users, let it be either the provision and sale of advertising space, the search and communication between users of digital interfaces, the transmission and, consequently, the sale of user data, fair and fair with the label given by the so-called IP address. This seems to us to be one of the key questions. However, regardless of these questions and concerns, if we look at the broader picture, it seems to us that the proposal for a law is a good basis for discussion, and above all a topic that we will all talk about in the future. If at any time, then at the same time these coronary conflicts have become crystal clear that some are losing jobs and suffering severe hardships, while others are reaping huge profits to this account, and society is not returning proportionate work. But we all want to get to work safely and on a beautiful road, and we do not want to take breaks when we and our family go on vacations or vacations. There's no difference. But the fact is, people, business and society as a whole are also looking for new opportunities in the crisis. Opportunities for progress and development. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we want, above all, fair and equal societies, so we will support the proposal for a law at first reading. At the same time, we would like, together with the representatives of the Ministry of Finance, to find solutions to how to improve the proposal, not to hear the echo of a global and integrated solution again. We do not see the point in waiting for some who have been against a number of solutions even this time to change their minds. If we think that way, I'm afraid we won't be able to or at least for a very long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Dr. Franz Trcek will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Nice hello to you all! In the parties where we overpower people who deal with most of their professional lives with information policies, we know for at least 15 years who somehow determines the structure of our everyday, often, after all the structure of parliaments. We also know this without the various disclosures of the Cambridge analyst and so on. Nor is it a secret that all the parties under the constitutional bow - by the way, in the tradition of the constitutional bow - we have been discussing for a good decade what the proposal proposed here by the Left and supported by the Social Democrats, the taxation of digitalism, we are also discussing the taxation of robotics and we are also discussing, for the time being, a little too confusing, the fact that the future legislative bodies will have to go into algorithms, the logic of algorithms that actually determine our lives or, if you want, even in a hurry. Legislatures in the digital age must deal with algorithms, understand algorithms, understand how artificial intelligence determines everyday, and, of course, accept certain legislative bonds. Of course, some of them are very opposed to this list. But actually what we're listening to here is some non-sbitt 80s nerds, more on the right-hand side, this time I hope to say it in a position, it takes almost 40 years to move. If we have been living a digital society for 20 years, this digital society must also be properly regulated. If all the weights, no matter what left-, right-, middle-day composition of Slovenian governments, are to be digitized, this could be one of our niche areas that we need to focus on. It's also some area of search for tangential coalitions. In short, if I say more Estonia and maybe less of another group of V4 in search of some solutions. Of course, it is a whole series of open questions, which my colleague also mentioned in part before me, because we have known for 20 years that we have been running into a key problem here. The companies are organised territorially, although we are a member of the EU, our daily routine is largely subordinated by Janša and Jan Mahnic, to a greater extent than Brussels, which has problems with higher bureaucrats, currently in the European Commission, Politics writes about this today. Digitality, of course, avoids it. Every one of us who's a little smart or if you want more of us to be a 12-year-old literate, he's already going to do what? Masking the IP and shedding the National Assembly not from Slovenia, but perhaps from the porous Pacific islands, if I caricate a little. In short, this is some sort of thing that needs to be taken seriously. Another matter is when we ask ourselves who creates these contents. Who creates content in Tiktok? The one that programmed Tiktok? Does anyone create content on Skayp, on Zoom, who creates content on Yuotube and so on? This is also a serious political issue that legislators should seriously consider. After all, let us also touch this, often I have an idea when in politics you speak, we speak wireless up, down that which is a little bit weak as a covida virus, that you do not need to have a wire, according to your own words. You know, official secrets are where these biggest companies have their digital farms. Often there's a nuke in the U.S. near that digital farm. Why is that? Also because you need so much energy. In short, a whole series of questions where we can no longer behave like some ostrich who, I don't know, will bury our heads in the ground, but with our butts on Twitter we'll confuse political competition. It is high time that politics somehow approaches the time we have been living in Achilles and turtles for decades. And I'm going to allow myself some personal degression here, let my fellow Social Democrats forgive me, as well as the proponents, I have some sort of five kids who are also a little bit of a generation different and we already know that I'm an old fart, and the oldest of children is against the youngest information half-letter. Perhaps there is also a problem with the composition of the National Assembly, perhaps when writing this, Luke should invite the youth composition of the National Assembly, which we have here once a year, so that they can tell us a little about how to regulate these things, because in many areas they understand this much better than we do, and after all, because these and such lives will be clouded or unsettled, less patient, more patient, more solidarityable, more insolvent also live longer than we do. These are all some of the topics that we should be digitizing beyond this, I admit that I'm already a little upset by my stomach here when I listen, we'll be green, we'll digitize, and so on, some of this crap seriously thinks and thinks. The left-hand side of the political field thinks this, both the Left and the Social Democrats as well as someone else, but the other side is looking for some eternal systemic solutions a little bit in the Keynesian way that we are all dead in the long run. Just because you're relatively small doesn't mean you're politically irrelevant on the world stage, and somehow thinking about how to do this is probably some better way of putting Slovenia on a global map than Dr. Logar would say. In short, with some consideration of the Zeitgeist we're living, a Zeitgeist who, if we don't respond soon, will eat us. After all, we still want people, even the national assemblies are the result of enlightenment, creating the future themselves, not creating algorithms for us by some oligopoly mostly American corporations. These are some very serious political challenges that we are probably not even aware of in this Slovenian politics of this decade. As I said before, the Social Democrats, of course, welcome this debate. And we hope that in another cool situation, we will also start to resolve it in a short time at the level of appropriate legislative measures, without any eternal excuses outside the time, so-called searchers for systemic solutions. Thank you for your word. But then, of course, there's a lot more to the content. But I'm slowly wondering how the country can be run by someone, some coalition that, in fact, doesn't know how to conduct another regular meeting of the National Assembly, which could be completed today, and we'll be fooling around for six days. Probably to make you boast that you're more working than Charche's composition. Nice afternoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u87	Thank you very much, Mr. Ducky. There's nothing about the digital service tax, and there's a lot about everything else. [[advertising from the hall]] The SD Group's policy was usually significantly better, including in the presentation of views. We're moving on. Ambassador Monika Gregorčič has the floor to represent the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre. Here you go. [[advertising from the hall]] You'll get it, just to wrap it up. I'll figure it out. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Members and Members! Honorable representatives of the government! The Left Group has put in the legislative procedure a bill proposing to tax three types of digital services, such as advertising, data transfer and access to digital platforms. Applicants foresee the taxation of services provided by legal persons of domestic and foreign law with annual revenues of more than €750 million and revenue from taxable digital services with a source in the Republic of Slovenia of more than €150,000. There are no such companies in Slovenia, so it is clear that the bill refers to global digital multinationals such as Apple, Google, Facebook, Airbnb and others. According to the Financial Administration, such international digital companies do not have a physical presence in Slovenia but provide digital services here, 17. However, in 2018, around EUR 100 million is to be realised together. Since they do not have a registered office in the Republic of Slovenia, they did not pay corporate income tax. In Slovenia, however, they paid only value added tax. Five of these largest companies are expected to pay EUR 12 million in value added tax as of 2015. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we support the key objectives and objectives of this proposal. We are aware that the Internet has allowed companies to operate digitally at global level and in contrast to traditional companies producing goods or services, more and more companies are producing digital services such as online social networks, online advertising, data transfer and processing online. Tax legislation has not adapted to these changes. Even under Slovenian law, the income of these foreign multinationals in Slovenia is taxed only if they have a business unit. But today, as we know, there is no need for a physical presence to manage digital services. We are also aware that some of these multinationals are using aggressive tax planning or so-called tax optimisation to avoid paying taxes. However, the fight against such aggressive tax planning is crucial for each country to ensure the adequate tax revenues it needs for public investment, education and health. And the objective of each country is to share so justly the burden, to preserve taxpayers' tax morals and, last but not least, to prevent distortions of economic competition. This is not just the business of these companies with tax havens, even within the Member States of the European Union there have been known cases or affairs from Luxembourg and Ireland, and we have witnessed a fictitious reduction in tax revenue. The final result is that multinationals reach almost zero tax rates. We are in favour of a fair and efficient tax environment in the modern centre Party Group. Profits diverted into a tax haven mean, of course, an opportunistic loss of tax revenue for other Member States and therefore countries must look elsewhere for their tax resources, i.e. to tax higher companies established in their countries. In this way, the European Commission estimates that EU Member States, including Slovenia, will lose a total of around €5 billion in tax revenue annually. Last June, the National Assembly or Finance Committee, at the initiative of the Levica Group, took note of the issue of taxation of digital companies in Slovenia. We did not oppose the decision of the Group of the Modern Centre's Parties, which ordered the Government to draw up a proposal for a law to introduce a digital service tax in our country, but with the proposed time dynamics, we were unable to agree, and we warned that there was a need for a harmonised and comprehensive approach at EU level, as the functioning of the single European market was regulated. Only a single approach can prevent unfair competitive advantages arising from different tax regimes. Our position hasn't changed since then. Already within the mandate of our government, i.e. from 2014 to 2018, a modern centre party has been working within the Ministry of Finance to adapt the tax systems of all EU Member States in order to make them digitally appropriate. That is why, at European level, we supported a unified approach by the whole of the European Union to this issue, but unfortunately the proposal for a Council directive on a common system of digital services tax due to opposition from some Member States has not been adopted, nor has its compromise version. Since then, we have been monitoring all the activities under way within the institutions of the European Union. In view of the global nature of the challenge, the European Commission also recognises that it would be best to find global solutions for the taxation of the digital economy. Therefore, it is also working closely with the OECD. Nevertheless, some Member States have already taken unilateral measures, but they could also trigger so-called tax and trade wars, which, in addition to the covid-19 pandemic, could further affect the economy and cause job losses. In the SMC, we therefore propose that the adoption of this law or the introduction of a digital service tax should be postponed in the short term at least until 2021, when agreement is expected to be reached at global level. A total of 129 countries are expected to support the proposal developed under the OECD. For all the reasons mentioned in the Group of the Parties to the modern centre of this proposal, we cannot support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Before continuing, he applied for a procedural proposal from Dr. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u90	Yes, thank you for your word, chairman. Look, it's the same story over and over again, even though you've already had a meeting with the presidents. The chairman of the National Assembly shall not comment. Therefore, I ask that, as you chair - I will paraphrase, I quote the position from the 1st item on the agenda of your parliamentary group - Mr Tanko, “Stop this spiritual and mental poverty”. [[…]] You're in charge of the session. If you want to comment on the session, return your mandate, go to a political analyst or editor on New TV. In short, according to the Rules of Procedure, you are holding a meeting, not commenting on what you know very well, 20 years, I think, you are in the National Assembly, you have already stood as one small municipal budget. Behave yourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Comrade Trček, second sentence of Article 75(2) of the Rules of Procedure speaks only of the fact that the speaker may only speak on a matter on the agenda. You have violated this gravely in the position of the Group of Members. I didn't interrupt, but then I warned you after the debate. And I suggest that everyone else stick to the rules that apply in this National Assembly. It's not oral arrangements, it's not about anything else, it's about respecting the rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] I give you my word once again for a procedural proposal, only that there will be a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u92	Look, Mr Tanko, the vast majority of Members and Members don't live half an hour from Ljubljana, we have children, after all, or next week you will lock us up. Democracy also means self-restraint, but not in the way of a curfew, as my colleague Brglez put it nicely, it is an abuse of the rules of procedure. You can give me a reminder, but you should be my role model. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u93	My friend, I'm giving you a warning because you're not talking about a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u94	But most of the bad things we've learned in this National Assembly, we've learned from SDS. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I give you another warning, and I take your word for the continuation of the session. Mr Primož Siter will receive the text from the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, good afternoon! Digital corporations have developed into the largest companies in the world in the last decade. Today, the ten largest market capitalisation companies in the world hold six seats. These are Apple, Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Alibaba and Facebook. Their total value is around $9 000 billion, which is about 170 times as much as the GDP of Slovenia. 170 times that. In the wake of this year's outbreak of the epidemic and the economic crisis, a number of traditional companies went bankrupt and their workers went on the road. However, the epidemic did not harm digital corporations. On the contrary, action to limit movement and integration has led to an even faster increase in the use and sales of digital services. At the peak of the epidemic, in the second quarter of this year, Amazon recorded a 40% increase in income and a 25% increase in Netflix. Even more impressive was the growth of their profits. Amazon’s profits increased by 99%, Facebook’s profits by 98% and Netflix’s profits by 166%. Since tax avoidance is part of the business model of digital giants, they pay very little tax, despite the extremely high growth in income and profits both in Slovenia and abroad. Digital corporations use their exceptional economic power, which also generates an extraordinary political impact, to make much easier use of them for a more favourable tax treatment, while at the same time having all the necessary human resources to carry out complex accounting operations that serve to avoid tax obligations. A 2018 European Commission study showed that digital companies in the European Union are on average taxed at 9.5% and traditional companies at 23%. Apple, one of the largest and most profitable companies in the world, has paid only 0.7% of the profit tax in the European Union by 2015, according to the assessment of the members of the Committee on Financial Crime and the tax evasion of the European Parliament. Digital corporations, on the one hand, constitute unfair competition for traditional companies by their tax avoidance practices and, on the other hand, create large gaps in the budgets of countries that urgently need means of providing, say, social states. The time when countries report billions of deficits and digital corporations record profits due to the covid-19 epidemic is time for digital giants to be taxed. In recent decades, the rapid development of information and communication technologies has led to far-reaching business changes. The Internet has enabled businesses to operate electronically and to interact online with their partners and customers worldwide. Contrary to traditional companies producing tangible goods, tangible services, more and more companies are producing unsustainable digital services, such as online social networks, online advertising, online transmission and data processing, and so on. Tax legislation has not adapted to these changes. The basic principles of corporate taxation in the European Union are still based on business models in the early 20th century. The right of the State to tax the profits of an undertaking is bound by the physical presence of an undertaking in a given country. According to this principle, according to Slovenian legislation, the income of foreign corporations in Slovenia is taxed only if these corporations have a business unit with us. Such arrangements do not take into account the global reach of digital activities where physical presence in the form of a business unit is no longer necessary for the provision of digital services. Large digital companies such as Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google and Airbnb use these outdated legal standards to avoid paying taxes. Although they carry out their service activities in all the Member States of the European Union, they generally report profits only in the Member States with the lowest tax rates, for example in Ireland or Luxembourg, and thus avoid paying taxes in the countries where they actually generate income and profits. The aforementioned five multinationals have also been operating in Slovenia for a decade. But none of them in Slovenia paid a cent of income tax because they do not have a business unit and therefore do not belong among the taxpayers to pay corporate taxes. Digital corporations in Slovenia pay only a symbolic amount of value added tax. According to the 2019 FURS data, Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google and Airbnb in Slovenia together paid only EUR 4 million in 2018. It is high time these companies in Slovenia started paying fair taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Respectable Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! For starters, perhaps the European view of the issue that we are dealing with today and in New Slovenia we are truly grateful that we have this opportunity to develop a constructive debate on this. Digital services are not left or right, they are only good, effective, active or otherwise. The European Council has already adopted a Digital Agenda for Europe in May 2010, which is part of the Europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, for a successful exit from the economic crisis and for a stable future for Europe, for seven priority areas of action. The first area, the establishment of a Digital Single Market, the second, the improvement of interoperability, the third, the increase in Internet confidence and the strengthening of Internet security, the fourth, a significant increase in Internet access speed, the fifth, the increase in investment in research and development, the sixth, the spread of digital literacy, knowledge and integration, and the seventh, the use of ICT to address societal challenges such as climate change and population ageing. Today is not the time to talk about where we are today in Slovenia. We can discuss long and wide what the DESI index is and so on and so on. We once had, ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Digital Society. I think that's kind of what it was called. Today we do not really know, in the structure of the previous government and this government, which has inherited the structure of the previous government, where we should actually look for those responsible for the digital society and the digital economy. On one occasion, in New Slovenia, we also had a desire to propose – at the beginning of the mandate – the National Assembly was set up by the Committee on Digital Economy and Digital Society. But today it's not a topic. It'll probably be a matter of some future if this one's smart. And to continue with the European themes. I would like to stop at an extraordinary European Council meeting, which ended on 21 July this year, and present some conclusions. I would like to recall that, at the request of Heads of State or Government at the end of May this year, the Commission presented a very comprehensive package covering the future multiannual financial framework and special efforts to recover from the Next Generation EU instrument. And what exactly is this Next Generation EU instrument? The European Recovery Plan will require extensive public and private investment at European level to enable the Union to move towards sustainable and sustainable recovery, to create jobs and to address the direct damage caused by the covid-19 pandemic while supporting the Union's green and digital priorities. The Multiannual Financial Framework on support for Next Generation of the EU will be the main European instrument in this regard. And now I am approaching the topic that we are dealing with today. One of the conclusions, under the next multi-annual financial perspective, 2021-2027, is Decision A29 and allow me to read it as it touches on today's topic. “In the coming years, the Union will seek to reform the system of own resources and introduce new sources of own resources. First, a new source of own resources will be introduced, based on unrecycled plastic waste, and will enter into force on 1 January of the following year. As a basis for additional own resources, the Commission will submit, in the first half of 2021, a proposal for an carbon adjustment mechanism at borders and a digital levy proposal to be introduced by 1 January 2023 at the latest. In the same spirit, the Commission will present a proposal on the revised ETS system, which means an emission trading system, "and, if possible, extend it to aviation and maritime." [[…]] So, the Commission, the European Council, Europe and Slovenia, of course, are aware of the need for new ways of life, new technologies, new benefits and new resources to be introduced in Europe. It is perfectly logical that trade and trade in the third millennium, if I look at just one piece of service, the trade of the third millennium will be substantially different from the trade of the 19th century or not going back like that, trade at the time of my childhood. Of course, once upon a time, I've written down that the world will be digital and whoever doesn't be digital won't be digital. I wrote that down once. Today, it is true that the present is digital and who today is not digital, and even in this crisis, it simply has very little chance of surviving. You understand I speak in parables. Left as the goal of the Digital Services Tax Act, I quote: “The taxation of digital corporations which in recent decades, compared to other companies, have recorded relatively high growth in income and profits.” That's not weird. When we look at Slovenian companies, we see that the most successful companies are just in ICT, that there are also the highest wages, the highest added value, thank God. Of course, there is also a great deal of knowledge to remember. Now, if I speculate a little bit, but no offense, respected authors and law-makers, maybe this proposal today would not be on the table or would be, I don't know if Google Europe would be, so if Google had headquarters, it would be a real seat in Ljubljana or Celje not in Dublin, maybe, but it's just at the edge now. Let me reiterate that, already in 2018, the European Commission proposed a 3% tax for companies with global annual income of more than €750 million and an annual income of more than €50 million in the European Union. This 3% tax on certain revenue from digital activities is intended to raise at least EUR 5 billion per year according to the Brussels calculations. The proposal was then blocked by some countries, Denmark, Finland, Ireland, Sweden and so on, and some countries started preparing their national arrangements. In Novi Slovenija in the past, we have not been in favour of a specific tax on the digital services of large companies, but in principle we have been in favour of the same, I stress the same tax treatment of all companies regardless of the industry. In the interest of a specific digital tax, the principle of taxation of income shall speak where it is made. It is clear to digital corporations that, by entering profits in low-tax Member States, such as Luxembourg and Ireland, they avoid fair taxation for their services in other countries. Nevertheless, the big question is whether such a proposal can be implemented in practice. Is Slovenia capable of providing information technology that will provide all the data, indeed, all the data that is necessary in order to follow the services provided by digital companies in the territory of Slovenia? We expected that the Ministry of Finance would have comments in this direction and that a possible tax on digital services would have to be prepared by the Ministry due to the complexity of the problem and that this proposal for the law of the Left would be rejected. We also expect Slovenia to be in the institutions of the European Union, where a digital service tax model will actually be developed, so that Slovenia will be loud enough. I think we need to do our homework there in the European institutions first. For the time being, we will not support the proposal that this law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u100	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues! The Digital Services Tax Act proposes the introduction of a 7% tax rate on revenues generated by the largest digital corporations in Slovenia, such as Apple, Facebook, Amazon, Google, and let us not forget Airbnb. Digital corporations in Slovenia today pay only a symbolic amount of value added tax. According to the 2019 FURS data, only EUR 4 million was invested in the budget by the largest digital companies. The introduction of a higher tax rate with the expected rapid growth of this sector will at least double the current revenue in the budget. At international level, efforts have been under way for a long time for tax reform to properly tax digital service providers and to prevent a number of tax frauds afforded to digital companies by different legislation. In view of the fact that consensus could not be reached at European Union level, a number of Member States have taken up the exercise in their own hands. France, Italy, Austria, Hungary and Poland adopted legislation already in 2019 introducing a digital service tax. Many other members, such as Germany and Spain, are also predicting the same. While countries have introduced different rates and different services subject to taxation, it is common for all to take into account the proposal for a directive prepared by the European Commission in this area in 2018. In the SAB, we believe that it is also high time for Slovenia to implement this tax on its own and that the state budget will immediately begin to be filled from this title. And what does our government say on the proposal? From the Government's point of view, it is clear that, unlike other countries, it has decided to wait for a global solution or at least a solution at European Union level, although the OECD has already announced that there will be no such response this year. In the SAB, the government's response is understood as a simple transfer. In order to introduce this tax, there is a broad political consensus and it demonstrated itself at the 13th urgent meeting of the Finance Committee held last May. The Committee, with the exception of one member, unanimously adopted a decision proposing to the Government that, by April 2020, it submit to the National Assembly a draft law on the basis of which Slovenia would have submitted its national budget from 1. 9. 2020 provides additional revenue from the digital service tax. And that is exactly what we expect from this government in the SAB. We keep reminding us that today's state of public finances and the government's state budget has not given us any tangible solutions, projects, plans, which will lead Slovenia out of the crisis that has fuelled and bottling the epidemic. Unlike other countries, our government does not consider among the priorities a legal solution that would increase revenue. Its priorities are the subordination of the police, the prosecution, the staff exchange, the merger of independent public agencies, the attack on the judicial system, the accounting with different thinkers and the subordination of national radio and television and other public media such as the Slovenian Press Agency. In the SAB, we believe that the law is suitable for further consideration and that it is high time for this government to stop all processes of change of society that have no connection with the epidemiological fight and to start caring for the well-being of its citizens and citizens instead of its pockets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Bandelli. The same goes for you in this conclusion. You have gravely violated the Rules of Procedure. If you would like to address all the other matters that you have pointed out, I suggest you convene a meeting of the National Assembly. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. Robert Polnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The global digital service business has become elusive for the tax networks of countries. Corporations are getting richer, social states are getting poorer and more indebted, and inequality is becoming unsustainable. At the same time, the economic freedom of the corporate council is a political flood of social states and citizens as more or less reliable taxpayers. There's a simple conclusion. Fair corporate taxation is the one that preserves the fiscal resources of the social state in the perspective. Business models developed by digital economy icons, from technological and marketing innovations to financial and business machinations, are at the same time subject to business admiration and investigation by market regulators. Tax avoidance is an excellent example of where the main managers and owners are prepared to go in creative accounting. Liberalisation and financialisation of business, however, testifies to the complexity and uncoordinated taxation of global companies at national level. Most of this incredible growth is due to technological innovation, marketing persuasiveness and extraterritorial business strategies. The seat of the company and development remains in one country, the sale moves to another country, the production of parts is distributed around the world, distribution is controlled from third countries and finance is concentrated in tax havens. The formula is simple to look at, and is, of course, very difficult to implement and operationally. None of these companies have a clear tax residence because they exploit the United States tax mazes and, of course, the European Union also has other countries where, for example, different laws determine the head office of the company according to the location of the central management or determine residence by place of business. For the purpose of bridging this corporation, they skillfully distribute costs by means of transfer prices, development expenditure and financial accounts, and profits are generated in tax havens. The tax avoidance cycle is thus concluded. The effective tax rate of the world's most profitable corporations is thus on average between 1 and 2 percent. Digital business giants are a model image of neoliberal capitalism. The huge profits of such corporations have four joint nominees. Technological and business innovation, the power of global demand, wage stagnation and systematic avoidance of tax liabilities. Corporations are large and strong because, among other things, their profits are incomprehensiblely disproportionate to taxes paid. From the point of view of the countries, it is particularly disputed that on what basis tax bases, revenues and expenditure of companies should be laid. Business practice shows that international corporations with a range of related and dependent companies with transfer prices, cost transfers and profits can easily control value chains outside tax systems. Most tax coverage is based on the territorial principle, the principle of separate legal persons, based on the establishment of the company or the source of income. However, it is precisely because of the international linkage of business that possible double taxation is as problematic as tax avoidance. First, it threatens global business transactions and second, domestic budget resources. Members of the DeSUS Group find that we are faced with a double embarrassment. On the one hand is the European Union, which swears on tax federalism. This leaves Member States free to travel and even encourages tax competition. After a long and long time, the so-called fiscal union has only affected the area of budgetary deficits and country indebtedness, rather than tax systems and tax methods. On the other hand, it is the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. This insists that an effective solution must be achieved through a global consensus within the overall inclusive framework, which, due to the different interests, development and institutional structures of the countries, is difficult to achieve so far, has proved to be virtually impossible to achieve. The European Union has already called for an effective and fair tax system suitable for the digital era in October 2017. In December 2017, the Council of the European Union adopted conclusions on the response to the challenges of taxation of profits in the digital economy. The decision stressed the need to ensure that international tax rules are suitable for both digital and more traditional economic sectors. On this basis, the European Commission has presented two legislative proposals, namely the reform of the rules on corporate income taxation, with a view to taxing profits where companies have an important digital presence. This would be achieved by establishing a provisional tax on revenue from digital services. This tax is planned as a measure to bridge the period until we start using the long-term structural solutions agreed under the OECD. The provisional tax would apply to revenue from activities where users play an important role in value creation and which are not adequately covered by the current tax rules. These are, inter alia, revenues from the marketing of targeted online advertising, digital intermediation activities that enable users to interact and facilitate the sale of goods and services between them, and revenues from the sale of data generated on the basis of user information. These tax revenues would be collected in the Member States where users are located. The tax framework for digital services at the level of the European Union as a whole would also avoid unilateral measures that could lead to fragmentation of the single market. Following a discussion at the March 2019 Economic and Financial Affairs Council, there was no agreement on the proposal and the Council decided to adopt a two-tier approach, with the Council and the Member States working together to reach agreement on a global solution by 2020 at the level of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. If it is shown by the end of this year that more time is needed for this agreement – and this has proved to be so – then the Council could start discussing again the possible individual approach of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, the famous logo of one of the digital mastodons is a bitten apple, and the European Union is discrediting itself by such conduct to the level of the tax bite. This is a matter that will urgently need to be changed. Tax legislation harmonised at the level of the European Union shall be adopted by agreement of all the members of the Council of the European Union. There is also one possible new threat. Any change in the current decision-making method by consensus on qualified majority decision-making could lead to a loss of sovereignty in the tax area, which could have a negative impact on the amount of government revenue in the Slovenian case. Why would countries lose control of their own fiscal policy by changing their decision-making methods and leave them fully responsible for fiscal discipline? Individual countries have responded differently and unilaterally to failures at European Union level. Some have already taken unilateral measures or are forecasting them. In the Desus Group, we believe that the national introduction of a digital service tax is an alternative that cannot be excluded. On the contrary, it is increasingly proving to be a viable option, the least bad among the weak. In the event that Slovenia unilaterally introduces a tax on certain digital services, whose payment would be based on self-taxation, there is a high likelihood that we will survive only a minor part of the potential tax liability. It will therefore be necessary to very precisely define or resolve certain uncertainties relating to taxpayers, to the set of taxation services, to the tax rate or to the tax rate and to the collection system. The power of the individual country against the online giants is significantly less important than, for example, the power to force the entire European Union. We are also particularly concerned about technical matters that will need to be regulated, such as the registration of taxpayers, the organisation of supervision of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia and the related implementation of potential criminal provisions. The financial impact of the proposed proposal is €10 million per year, with an undetermined growth in the coming years. By comparison, the tax revenue of the State budget after the final budget account for 2019 was EUR 8 billion and EUR 678 million. These 10 million represent 11 hundred per cent of these revenues. Those more comparable revenues from corporate income tax were reached at EUR 997 million at the end of the 2019 budget. Thus, these 10 million represent about 1 per cent of the total revenue from corporate income tax. All that I have now listed are important starting points for Members of our Member Group, the Desus Group, and the different points between the position of the proposer and those who will be obliged to implement the proposed tax legislation. Our support will be given to that proposal for a digitisation law that will take into account possible globally agreed solutions or upgrade international tax standards. In the event that a global agreement does not take place in a short time, we support efforts at European Union level. In our view, specific non-coordinated national regimes are less effective and can lead to tax uncertainty, double taxation and additional disproportionate administrative burdens, while also risking competitiveness and the business environment. Therefore, the proposals, as proposed by fellow Members of the Levitical Group, will not be supported by Members of the Desus Group for these reasons for the time being. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Mr Luka Mesec wants the text first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. Good-bye! I may also give in the first explanation of the applicant a little context, what we are doing today. The problem we're facing is this. In Europe and around the world, we have outdated tax laws that are not relevant to the 21st century. Our tax systems, as we know today, are based on national level and developed after World War II, when the international context was completely different. In fact, at the time, national countries controlled capital, capital flows were regulated, trade between countries also, most countries had their own currencies. In short, countries have managed capital and can therefore also regulate and tax it properly at national level. Globalisation has turned the issue upside down, and capital is now over and out of the country, and their tax systems, trade and capital flows are free, and politics and countries are increasingly limited and powerless. And that's the context of the decaying world we live in. The growing nationalism driven by fear, anger and a sense of infirmity is due to the fact that capital has completely evolved from the hull of national states. As Comrade Polnar said earlier, the consequences are on the one hand growing inequality, on the other hand, fewer and weaker social states and, accordingly, I add, a sense of powerlessness and anger, as it becomes clear to people that politics in the fight against global capital no longer has much power. That's why trumpets are happening, and that's why they're breeching, so there's going to be an escalation in right nationalism. Unfortunately, we also have an experiment in Slovenia, although, interestingly, to foreign capital, as we know today, is extremely servile. I stress extremely servile because, look at how much they have tried to support at least this minimal step that we are proposing and doing in Levica today. What we are doing today has been adopted, as stated in several opinions, by a decision taken by the Committee on Finance in May 2019. At that time, with the exception of one vote, interestingly, this vote was decided by Andrej Šircelj, who is today the Minister of Finance, to have the Ministry of Finance up to 1. 9. 2020 will pass the Digital Services Tax Act to the National Assembly. Up to one. 9. 2020. Now it's a month and a half and that's why we're in Levica, because the Ministry of Finance didn't have any signs that this was going to happen, we proposed our own law. Then we get a response from the Ministry of Finance saying - what? He said they were concerned, this is somehow an introductory statement, that because of the introduction of the tax, larger taxpayers would significantly reduce their digital presence in the Republic of Slovenia. Well, we went now to check what the Ministry of Finance was in the previous composition, so the end of 2019 was written in its opinion, then the position was the same, but with the addition. At the time of the introduction of the tax, it was not expected that higher taxpayers would significantly reduce their digital presence in the Republic of Slovenia due to the introduction of the tax. It is said that the position of the Ministry of Finance changed in one year, but so much so that the Ministry of Finance first erased the word “not expected”. At that time, they said, "Don't expect more taxpayers to move out of the country" and now they have "not expected" and we have the position of the Ministry of Finance, "we expect them to move." Everything else is copy-paste. Copy-paste. So much is going on with the Ministry of Finance to deal with one of the biggest problems we have, and that is that countries cannot face digital giants who are avoiding paying taxes on the whole line because of the unadaptability of their tax systems. Let me repeat to you the data of the European Union. From 2015 to 2017, Apple paid 0.7% of the transport taxes it created here in the European Union. Jeff Bezos, one of the biggest winners of the cod crisis, his income, his company's income increased by almost 100 percent in recent months, paid, rishi-writing, 1.2 percent of his earnings. And now we are proposing a solution and the Ministry of Finance will bring us copies of the previous compositions of the Ministry of Finance, only with the deleted “not expected”. So much has been done by this Ministry of Finance, and so much has to be taken seriously all the nonsense that the secretary has said before. Don't be shy! Then, when you say so, and we've heard this far too many times that the matter will be resolved at European level. It has been being saved at European level for five years, ladies and gentlemen. For 5 years it is being resolved at European level. And what's the result? Four countries are opposed, Denmark, Sweden, Finland and Ireland. Why are they opposed, and why will they not withdraw? Denmark, Sweden and Finland are on all fronts against the fiscal union. So they don't want the European Union to start collecting taxes on its own, and that's why it's going to be one year or three or five years from now, because it's against their principled position. They do not want the European Union to collect taxes. We have Ireland on the other side. Why doesn't he want to change that? Joseph Horvat said. Because it is their business model to attract Microsoft, Apple, Amazon and so on, with favourable tax arrangements allowing companies to transfer profits from Ireland. And they won't change their minds either, because it would undermine their entire development model of their economy. In short, at European level, forget about such an arrangement, because it will not be because it is contrary to either the principled views or the development models and the existential issues of certain countries. He won't. Then you say, then let's go to the global level. Yes, of course, let's go to a global level. 137 countries, do you think we'll agree to accept this? And the U.S. is in the middle of what's opposed to any taxation of these giants from the start because it understands them as its own companies. That's understandable. Apple, Amazon, Facebook, Alphabet, Verizon, these are all American companies, and of course Americans don't want to be taxed elsewhere in the world. They won't. So there will be no global or European agreement. This is not just us, this is the position of the following countries; Spain, France, Italy, Austria, Poland, Great Britain and Turkey, all the countries that are red on this map are as much a tax as we propose already have. All these countries. We have not written this tax in mind, we have written it on the basis of what the European Commission has drawn up in its proposal, which was rejected by the Council, as you yourself have said, and on the basis of what is applicable in other countries. When you're wondering if it'll be effective. Yes, if Italy manages to collect these taxes, Great Britain manages to collect them, why not our Furs? These companies already have established departments which, on the basis of Italian, French, Spanish and so on, exempt the corresponding taxes from those countries. Moreover, if we are talking here about at least some basic benevolence, but not just mine action because something was proposed by the Left or the opposition, I repeat, this is the first reading of this law. Well, if you think you can write it better, you'll just put the amendments in another read. All the articles are open, we can change everything, everything. It is, however, that we are trying to modernise our tax system to be appropriate and appropriate to the situation in the 21st century. If I go back to the beginning of my debate. We have a problem that our tax systems are not able to manage international capital flows, that they are not able to collect even those taxes that are at our disposal. How do you think Facebook, Google, Amazon, and so on, according to FURS estimates, have generated 100 million revenue in Slovenia? They were created by Slovenian users. With those we pay for Netflix's subscription, with those we buy on Amazon, and finally with all the users we always type in any search word in Google or we have a Facebook profile. These revenues are created on us and these profits are created on us. And I don't know why we would have to limit ourselves and not try to capture this 10 million tax, as we estimate that in the years to come, if you have a legal solution here. Practically half of Europe has already introduced such a solution or is thinking about it, and after all, this is an initiative even by the OECD and the European Commission. We have absolutely no objection to such a tax being imposed at European level. Personally, I am also a supporter of the fiscal union, because I think it is necessary to survive if such a European building as we have is to survive. But I would point out that it will be very difficult to convince those countries that in principle disagree with this or that it is in direct conflict with their national interest to change their minds. However, we can be smart enough in this room to at least try to do this with us, and by doing so, at least one step closer to the solution, when the bezoos, the jocks and the other winners of the new world regulation have begun to pay taxes fairly and when social states around the world will no longer suffer on their profits. And the victims of this are, of course, working and middle classes, who become the only ones who are still paying taxes and who are further away from the new world class of billionaires who have managed to completely avoid taxes and live in a completely different universe.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We are now continuing the debate with Members and Members of Parliament. For the first time, Mr Jani Möderndorfer is given the floor and Mr Miha Kordiš is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you very much. It's a topic that actually doesn't interest those parties. That's not weird. These are the supporters of the Ministry of Finance who have their own minister, and they have rightly avoided this debate, which can make them ashamed and awkward. I will, however, serve with one detail, to which you will in fact be able to respond to citizens, taxpayers, how you manage money. But we're going in order. You can probably agree with me if I say the emperor who can't collect taxes doesn't even deserve it. This has always been true. You need to stay away and pick him up. But if it's a matter of strangers, it's all the more so because I have no bad conscience. In the final stage, I don't know why he would serve in the Slovenian space, but we wouldn't pick up what belongs to us and other countries simply took it. What my predecessor, colleague Luka Mesec, explained, especially in the part where he speaks, what is the misdirection and ignorance of the text and the answer, why this tax is not collected, and this fear and fear you have at the Ministry of Finance, not only is it attracted to the hair, but you simply had to find some formula to simply print the matter out, if it is a matter of non-digaree. And now I'm going to be very practical so that people can imagine. I'm on Netflix myself, and I pay nine euros a month. Madam Secretary of State, tell me what the state has to say about me paying nine euros. Why can't I pay this country any more taxes because there's nothing in there that's charged. Let me explain this very simply. Because at the end of the day, if that's the case, I don't know why you charge services or taxes to others, but not to them. Let me explain. You know, I've been talking to your predecessor before, and with your predecessor and everyone had different views on it, but the common denominator was all the same -- nothing to do in this area. It was a common denominator. I, for God's sake, really don't understand whether you're so lazy or you don't know it, or you don't want it. Let me know once in a while what the problem is. Do you know what my predecessor used to say to me? The predecessor in front of you, sitting on this chair, a warm chair, a good chair, said the following sentence: “We will unify in the European Union”. And when I asked her the following question: “And why don’t we settle the question ourselves until we unify it in the European Union, just as other countries have done? Why do we always have to wait for this European Union, but just copy-paste to do what you're used to looking like, because you're still just doing copy-paste? Let me explain that I will once or that we will all once understand what the problem is. Is it that hard to get that money? Does that money smell? You don't want it? Do we have too much? Is there any way we can get oil running so we don't have to do this or what? I just don't understand it anymore. Then there's one more little thing that my predecessor will have to deal with. I don't know if you've ever heard of it, but I believe you're, by the word of Influenza. Today, every Instagram has on its phone, and on this Instagram, I see a variety of adverts, various drinks, purses, I don't know what they're bragging about. But they actually do promotions, they do commercials. And that's one million and the same. Are they paying any taxes? But this is all a digital service. What's more, they get a sponsor's car, but it's not a sponsor's car, it's just called a sponsor's car, this car's been painted several times, it's promoted. And why would a company be billing for big money there, but if that's what the Influenza can do with famous personalities? They've been taking pictures for hours, and I don't know what else they're doing. Where do you get this? Explain to me where, when. Let me know how Furs does it, where he has a legal basis for doing it. Have you ever handled a case like this? Because once we come to this question, I am counting on these issues to be resolved here in this law. And she was the former secretary of state, she came from the dacar species, because you know her, because you know exactly who I'm talking about, which means she knew the matter. And you know what she said to me? “Yes, that is indeed a problem, we must solve this, we are preparing now.” But how many of you are at the Ministry of Finance? Who's doing all this? Because that's not what the Secretary of State is doing. But it's true what I say all the time. Is that even your priority? Are you even going to do that? Are you even doing anything about it? Are you going to move any further than that? You know, it's called I'm actually disgusted. [[…]] Don't do what's your mother's job. This is to make sure that the money comes in first, so that you can spend it on what is, of course, right to happen. And above all, that we shall all be equal before the law, without one being disturbed, working, paying taxes, and the other being able to do so. Young ladies, I watch them on Instagram, they don't have one hours of work, but they have everything, they have more money than anyone, more than you. [[…]] Because no one's taxing them and they're rewarded. Do you know how these contracts run? It goes to the agency, the agency pays for the services, so keep away from the agency these influents money, they show up in general, you quasi pick something up, you don't even know what you've picked up, but the money goes out fat. Answer me. But it's all happening in digital form. Please also answer specifically whether you intend to settle this issue in due time when you will solve it. Because I know what this machine's gonna do, look, nobody's sitting in there, they don't care, they don't care. They will end up getting instructions on what they must press against, the MF said they will escape, Amazon will escape from Slovenia because it will no longer be worth doing. Well, please, for Amazon, that's the change you'd like to pick up. Netflix, please, that's a change for them. For us, for Slovenia, that's no longer a change, but it's serious money. I'm sorry that Shirtzelj isn't sitting here with us when she's so vehemently responding and so on and then let the poor girl go to war, in which they have to be in a way that they have to move. What is your assessment of the financial implications, how much could you take from this? If you are saying that this could even reduce their presence in the Slovenian space, these legal persons performing on the market. You've probably done some calculations on what that would mean if you were so afraid of it. Come with these numbers a day. Do you have them that you can write in your opinion so vehemently that it is? And one more thing you can explain to me why England can do this, why Italy can and we can't? And we don't know, are we incompetent? I know it's terrible to listen to, it's terrible. But you know, it would be awkward for me to sit there today to explain it to me because it should have been done a long time ago. And there will be no mistake that you will not think that I am directed only against you, because this is the government of Janez Janša, no, I was also angry with the former Secretary of State, the former Secretary of State, and I was angry because of the same question. Because if I can't stand anything, I can't stand someone knowingly giving up something that's been given to him. I would understand if we wanted to collect and introduce some new tax to make redundancies on the market – because of these services there will be no forgiveness, but the treasury will be significantly more full. Well, I'm glad, waiting for answers, if we're even worth getting them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Mr Mesec, the proposaler, made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you. I'd like to add one more thing. We listened to a bunch of views that were like listening to them there in the late '90s, the world will digitize. Please, from the moment they spoke of the Internet as a great hope, some water has passed and many things have happened. And I'm going to serve you, too, with one point of view that might actually be so old. In 2015 in Davos, then the executive director of Google Erik Smith said: “The Internet will disappear.” What did he mean? He meant that the Internet would blend into all times of our lives, that we would never know when we were on the Internet or when we were not. What's going on today. The meetings are moving out of the cafes at Zoom. Volt currently represents a good part of the income for a variety of restaurants in Ljubljana. The store is moving online. Google and Facebook collect about 40% of the market share in the global sense of total advertising, which exhausts traditional advertisers, newspapers and so on. And what are we doing? We're not doing anything. We are looking at how money flows into areas that are beyond the reach of this country and its tax rules. That's what we do. And today the secretary came when we made the marriage, and they didn't do so much at the Ministry, when Levica did their job to write their position, they took a one-year-old position and slightly wiped out the edging of those parts that they ideologically disagree with. That's what you did. In the meantime, let us see what other countries are doing. In 2016, the UK forced Facebook to pay 21 % more profit tax than in 2015. In early 2019, France reached an agreement with Apple to pay taxes for the past decade at a value of 500 million or half billion assets. Last year they also agreed with Amazon, who agreed to settle for the previous 14 years to pay EUR 202 million. Thus, France has recovered EUR 700 million from two tax giants. Some countries are suing them, such as the UK, and Slovenia is lagging and talking, so let's wait for the European Union to make a deal there. In the meantime, tax giants, even now in quarantine, are collecting an increasing and increasing share of revenues in this country and in general around the world, one of them has grown by 150 %, such as Netflix, Zoom, which I mentioned earlier, has gone from 10 million users to 300 million users in almost three months. And we're sitting here waiting for someone else to do something for us. No one else will do anything for us. It's just you who created 10 billion minus in the budget this year and in the next two years, you're not even that much when someone's waving the law right in front of you so that they can bring 10 million dollars a year in there to at least write an opinion on it. No, you come here with a position that you picked up from the dumpster a year ago, and you fixed up a little bit with the edging, so that it's ideologically appropriate for you. This is the judgment of your work. And we're going to repeat that the public remembers what you've been doing in a function that I hope will soon end because you don't deserve it anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Miha Kordish. Get ready, Mr. Edward Pavlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Every poor person who goes to the store in Slovenia buys a loaf of bread, from this loaf of bread pays VAT. The percentage taken by every poor person in this country pays more than global multibillion dollar corporations with budgets that exceed Slovenia's GDP - Apple, Amazon, Google and all. Why? Since the introduction of the privatisation, deregulation and flexibilisation policy, namely the Washington Consensus, which embodied the ideology of neoliberal capitalism, corporations have grown particularly, gained strength and outstripped the power of national states. Under deregulated conditions, they have practically emerged from various footnotes that have ensured that these corporations are financing the social state. Through the political levers of redistribution, every time the government created wealth from companies, from corporations to some common good, to health, education, roads, some other infrastructure of social solidarity and so on. But with the progress of this dismantling of national sovereignty and the progress of corporate power growth, of course, this has become increasingly difficult. And now we've come to a point combined with all the digital possibilities that the 21st century offers that these large, huge corporations are making their profits largely through data processing and online marketing, and there is no way that countries can overtake these profits, as they cover, say, normal manufacturing business, that these corporations are literally lurking on social infrastructure and on individuals, in our case, on two million citizens and citizens. That's not right. If people in this country pay taxes, pay honest taxes, then they must also be paid by business, especially this global huge business. This is not just a matter of basic social justice, it is also a response by the State and its tax regime to the last permutation of capitalism, which we can monitor from 2008 onwards. Capitalism is cycled into crises, after each crisis it mutates in one way or another when it tries to restore its own profitability. The crisis at the end of the 19th century had plunged into World War I, the first world war meant a new distribution of imperial cards, yet somehow it was not enough, and so the period of financial growth that culminated in the black Thursday, the stock market break and the largest or at this point could be referred to as the second largest economic crisis that capitalism ever knew. The political measures that began to interfere with the countries at the time are the measures of the construction of the social state, and attempts to establish a consumer society in this way and to open up new markets with the growth of the standard have not ended well and we have finally received World War II, global destruction. Only World War II really cleared up, in a very harsh way, the consequences of the break of the capitalist regime at the end of the 20th year, which followed the so-called golden period of capitalism, the postwar social state, as historian Eric Hobsbawm would call it. The profits were high, the labour organisation was strong, it threatened the threat of social, even socialist revolution, but because of all the global destruction that the Second World War had brought, economic cake could have been growing steadily, so it also raised the standard of the working class, the countries taxed business to a great extent, and what they derived from taxation turned into strong social systems, including strong social support, not just construction, health, education and so on. Of course, as with each accumulation cycle, this postwar golden cycle of capitalist accumulation was also counted for days. However, the crisis occurred in the 1970s when capitalism was again invented by beginning the acquisitions of the previous decades of the social state on the inside to dismantle and, on the other hand, to take over global markets in a way that we now recognize as globalisation. Health care was suddenly no longer a self-evident public good, and full employment policies changed employment policies and so on. All of this has led to the falling standard of the working class, but of course also the capitalist solution of itself in the race after the restaurant's own profitability had to run into restrictions sooner or later. These restrictions were demonstrated at the end of the first decade of the 21st century. Thus, once capitalism has hit its limits in production, deregulation and financialisation processes have relaunched and, suddenly, profits from speculative investments are beginning to repeatedly exceed the profits that can be generated by some production activity. The balloons swelled, the speculation grew, and in 2008 these balloons collapsed. What followed? With us in Slovenia, also the infamous Zujf and everything else is quite a new history, so this works, I mean, I don't need to renew. I'll tell you what. One of the answers with which he served capitalism to permutate and restore its profitability were the so-called platforms and data use, Airbnb, Wolft, Uber and so on. These were some ideas on how to mobilise private capacities in people for their private use so far and to integrate them into market exploitation regimes. Of course, this kind of activity has begun to take on and grow simply because people have been so pauperized and pushed to the brink. And capitalism literally hacked into people's cars, into their apartments. The second, an important element in this story, is data. Not only is capitalism thus trying to restore its profitability by deleting the boundary between working time and leisure time and thus additionally the hyper-exploitation of people involved in these processes of emergency self-sustainment, it also manages the same processes through huge data flows. This is information about ourselves, about our shopping habits, about our online social practices. And this data turned capitalism into its raw material, for targeted advertising, for example. And that's why he doesn't have to pay anything. On the one hand, because the tax regimes are not adapted, on the other hand, because these corporations are so large that these tax regimes can be played, they move into tax havens and, of course, they lobby largely in decision-makers. And they do business, they do profits, they do hyperwinning even on the basis that the companies from which they draw these profits don't return in any way. In Levica we therefore propose a digital service tax that bypasses data transmission, covers advertising and covers access to so-called webforms, or briefly, which covers marketing and access to data for large, huge corporations such as Apple, Amazon, Google and so on. Not to be said, how do we want to kill and destroy the domestic growing digital market, which has just begun to wake up, let me say that our law is tanning only companies whose annual income at global level exceeds 750 million euros and that it is the provision of taxation services in Slovenia of 150 000 euros or over 150 000 euros. In short, it is hard to imagine that any Slovenian company is seriously affected by this tax. At the same time, these digital giants would prepare our tax to pay into the Slovenian budget and thus finance Slovenian citizens and citizens, our common needs, which are serviced by the budget, and thus return in the form of a social wage to all the people from whom they work business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has entered the floor. Mrs. Stebly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you very much. It's kind of like a red thread through all this debate that's dragging on how we're waiting, what and when someone is going to do something for us. I have already said in the introduction that we participate intensively, but really intensely, in the negotiations at European Commission level as well as in the negotiations or in the coordination within the OECD. And with regard to this analysis, of course it was done, I also said what negative effects were recognized as such. If we compare the estimated revenue of this tax of EUR 10 million, as you have foreseen, with a possible drop in GDP of 1%, then perhaps we should think a little about these figures. Once again, it is not that the Government does not want to settle this, but it is because we are very closely involved in the process of coordinating this at a wider level, we estimate that it is not appropriate at this point that Slovenia regulates this matter in its own way. At European Commission level, it is envisaged that a proposal for a legislative act on this subject will be submitted to the European Commission's work programme in the second quarter of next year. Perhaps just a few more information about the countries that have been exposed and which are supposed to have already introduced this tax. Spain has passed such a law. It is currently only accepted at government level, and the debate in Parliament is still under way. Italy has adopted such a law, but its implementation has kept it to a global solution. Hungary has temporarily suspended or currently the rate of that tax is zero in the period from 1. 1. 2019 to 31. 12. 2022. France has provisionally suspended the collection of this tax until December 2020. The Czech Republic is still waiting for Parliament's approval. Belgium is also awaiting a vote in Parliament, until a solution is reached at OECD level. Austria, by the way, has been collecting it since 1. 1. 2020, but only for advertising. So much for that. Perhaps just another emphasis that may have been overheard in the introduction. At the OECD level, solutions are being sought that would result in amended international corporate income taxation standards and a different division of the tax base between countries. And maybe just a response to one of the statements in the debate. Yes, of course, the Prime Minister of the Government has said that the digital tax is one of the largest resources at European Union level, but I repeat, at European Union level, and solutions are therefore expected to be coordinated on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The applicant also took the floor. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you. And with regard to our income assessment, GDP is falling. Look, we know Slovenia's GDP is falling, but as we say, here we are taxing those companies that are doing their best during the crisis. To tell you the details, Amazon increased its net revenue in the second quarter of 2020 by 40%, Facebook by 10%, Netflix by 25%, Microsoft by 13%, Apple by 11%. All these companies are substantially growing and you can find this also in our proposal for a law graphically shown. Their profits grew even more; Amazon’s profits increased by 99%, Facebook by 98%, Netflix by 166%. That's what we're talking about, and this is where our projections are made. Secondly, when you talk about how the European Commission will bring a new act in the second quarter of 2021. Yeah, I believe he will, but I don't believe on the basis of what I said earlier, it's gonna be different than the last time. The European Union is not a legislator at European level, the European Commission is only proposing acts, but the Council must approve them, and either the finance ministers or the prime ministers of the Member States are sitting in the Council and they will say them the same as before. The Irish will object because this is contrary to their interests. The Scandinavians will object because they are against the fiscal union. It's gonna happen again. And the third time you're talking about these countries, it's true, the laws are in place. We have also written in our bill how implementation is done, some temporarily retaining them and so on. But this is no reason for us not to introduce it or the proposal is prepared on the basis of foreign examples and what the European Commission has proposed. If you have better suggestions for improving the law, there's no problem. We can sit down and improve them. However, it is completely pointless that such proposals, which are well-intentioned and ultimately help to resolve the financial situation in the country in a completely unfavourable way, because no Slovenian company will be taxed for this reason, but we are talking only about large, foreign companies that avoid taxes, although services are provided to us that what you do reject, and with one year old, little heated positions that were actually diametrically opposed to one year ago at the Ministry of Finance. And once again, what we have proposed has been adopted by the Committee on Finance a year and a half ago, and has taken a single vote against it unanimously. Everyone else, regardless of political colour, has supported the conclusion that this is to be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Edward Paulic has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Igor Peček. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, Madam President, for your word. At the beginning of the statement of the Secretary of State concerning the act to be submitted in the second quarter, those words should certainly be taken with great care. The main difference between traditional and digital companies is in the physical presence of the country in which they operate the service. And we all know that larger digital companies such as Facebook, Airbnb, Uber do not have these presences in Slovenia. We could have it, we could have opened a branch, a business unit, but they don't have any interest. And why they have no interest because legislation, as in force today, allows them to somehow circumvent existing rules because the legal basis for taxation is physical presence. If you're not here, then there's no tax. And in this way these companies are in some way unduly privileged. I'd give a few numbers to feel like we know what we're talking about. Facebook uses 2 billion people a day. Through the Airbnb platform, 2 million reservations are made daily. Uber services benefit 5 million people a day. The European Commission also estimates that digital companies are more effectively taxed once than traditional ones. And that's wrong. What is the business model of digital companies? The value of the company is, to a large extent or practically, their user, who is not necessarily a buyer. Taxes are paid in tax havens, transfer prices are used. They sell consumer habits to advertisers, carry out so-called targeted advertising, which means they follow our customs, the advertiser publishes an ad that is adapted to our habits, and thus the likelihood of purchase is greater. If, say, the company rents an advertising space with an online giant, say Google, that's why they pay him. Google ads show in Slovenia, sales of Slovenian users or their habits, and taxes on profits are not paid in Slovenia, despite the fact that income is directly generated in Slovenia. And, of course, it's time for this area to be reorganized. We have already heard that there are some discussions at both European Union and global level, but we have recently seen that the United States has proposed a break from these negotiations and we all know why. Because, as a rule, all major digital companies come from the United States. It was also mentioned earlier that some countries have already introduced this tax; some have indeed frozen it. You forgot to mention Great Britain, at least which is what introduced this tax. And now, if I may go to the motions of marriage. Basically, marriage is a good starting point. It provides for a tax rate of 7 % of the gross revenue generated in Slovenia. This shall be determined on the basis of IP addresses. However, larger digital companies are subject to taxation. In accordance with Article 12 of the proposal, the obligation to pay the tax and also to pay the tax shall be borne by the taxable person or undertaking. Each company knows a set of IP addresses allocated to a given country, so it also knows a set of IP addresses allocated to Slovenia. This allows them to determine the traffic created in Slovenia. But we have some open questions here, the first one that comes to me is how the state will check the correctness of the tax bill if this company submits the tax bill. We know that in traditional companies, an inspector is in charge. In this case, it won't work. And the second question is, what if the company doesn't want to pay the tax despite the law that was passed? Since we need to know that we have in Article 203 of the ZEKOM, it is called the Law on Electronic Communications, the legal neutrality of the Internet, which prohibits telecommunications operators from restricting, retaining, slowing Internet traffic at application level. And of course, the question is why would a technology giant pay a digital tax if legislation prevents us from getting sanctions. What does this Internet neutrality really mean? This means that the costs of telecommunications operators are increasing, thereby reducing the tax paid on profits. Costs increase because most digital traffic is imported from abroad, from the US, from China, so Slovenian operators need a greater international connection, which is certainly costing. Neutrality also means that a telecommunications operator should not charge an application provider, say Google, which means that the actual additional costs are borne by the Slovenian user, the state has nothing to do with this, and it only benefits a global company. Maybe just for the sake of an idea of what traffic these giants are making. In a newspaper, I noticed in a foreign newspaper that in March of this year, Netflix and Youtube reduced the quality of their streams, they claimed their services, just because the European internet did not collapse. So the network can't handle it anymore. In order to adequately increase the capacity of this network, this means enormous costs for telecommunications operators. Video content throughout the web represents 60% of the total data transmission. In view of the above, if this law goes into further consideration, it will certainly be necessary to determine how the country will identify the digital footprint in Slovenia and the correctness of the data provided by these digital operators, which will also be the basis for the tax, and of course it will be necessary to include some sanctions in case a digital company does not report taxes and will not tax itself in Slovenia. This is mainly because we have the legal, previously mentioned, neutrality of the Internet. But globally, this law seems to me to be a good basis for further consideration and it is possible to improve the law in the next stages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Peček has the next word, Mr Starovic is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary of state! Already in the position that we have presented as the position of our Group of Members, I have raised or asked some questions that seem most crucial to us. One of these was just mentioned by his colleague Paulic. But the fact is that businesses such as Facebook, Google and the like practically without physical presence in each Member State are fundamentally moving the borders of the internal market of the European Union. If I said that a little bit more domestically, there's practically no limit to them. They are able to circumvent existing tax rules and tax regulations by which each Member State, in fact, has some legal basis for taxation. But unfortunately, what has already been said and we are all aware of this applies only to those companies that are physically present in countries. This automatically means that it is a privilege, an unfair privilege of digital companies compared to traditionally established companies. And the dimensions of digital giants are virtually infinite. We've heard the information before that only Facebook visits two billion people every day, potentially two billion people every day looking at one ad. It's hard to talk about traffic. We've heard the data of 9,000 billion. Now more than I don't know exactly what the number is, which is the right number, and the fact is that traffic is so big that the stability of the network we are currently using is already threatened. This information is more of a concern to us in some way. And I'm sure that's the last fact we all understand in the same way. We need, no doubt we need a new regime in the field of taxation of the digital economy. Are we speaking to the European Commission or are we preparing this solution ourselves? We know that the European Commission estimates that, on average, digital companies are taxed substantially less than traditional. In March 2018, it prepared two proposals or proposals for two directives, which should be adopted with the consent of all Member States. Mr Mesec said that the European Council was the last instance to be approved by the consent of all Members and that until the consent of all Members was given, the directive would not be adopted. And that could happen in 5 or 10 years. It is difficult to assess when we will reach agreement. We know that when we decide on a certain common thing that is supposed to be common good for all, most of the time, each of us begins to look at himself and his own interests first. And that is why what happened two years ago that there was no consensus, despite the expressed will of individual Member States of the European Union to regulate this tax area. What is the economic value of these companies? Probably different from that production philosophy or the philosophy of the classical economy where the product generates additional value. Here the added value is created by the user himself or we all create it. In fact, it's us, the users we're the ones who kind of know-how, we like to say a little while ago. Know-how or profit formula, which in this case generates data about the user, is called an IP address and a sales function which is a logical consequence of the data that someone is operating with. And in this way, if I could use a little mechanical expression, this production circle would be done. Although I personally advocate solutions at global level and the same rules, I repeat, I am concerned that there will be no consensus so quickly in this case. Let's just look at the case of France. France taxed companies with revenues above 750 million. This is also the case with us, because the difference was that more than EUR 25 million of income must be generated in France, we have this limit of 150 000 euros. But then it happened — what? France has frozen the law, but the reason is known to all of us, relations with the United States, threats to customs on wine, sir, is said to be those classic French products which France exports to the United States of America to a large extent. As far as the fiscal rule is concerned, the estimate is 10 million a year, probably true. Although I am of the opinion that this number will be significantly larger very quickly. Then you might also wonder whether we really need to spend a lot of energy at this point in time for, say, a minor fiscal effect, but I am sure that, not because of this moment today, but because of all the dimensions that will develop in the future. I am convinced that a uniform regime for the taxation of the digital economy has two effects. The first effect is definitely to prevent fragmented markets within the European Union. However, the second effect is that it also prevents the so-called distortion of competition because there is virtually no restriction. Personally, once again, I support the activities that Member States are also trying to regulate this area in advance, and once a global solution is agreed at the level of the European Union, it will only be easier to implement it into our tax legislation. I therefore absolutely believe that the effort in this place is justifiable and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Vojko Starović, preparing Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Your Honor! I was from the very beginning when this Slovenia started and that we will get our country, very happy, eh, but now we can do a little of our own way and make our own decisions. Because the country, we need to know, is one of the most important innovations in history and human thinking. Why? Because, through the country and through its institutions, we provide individual and collective security, we ensure human education, we ensure human health, we also guarantee different human security and we also guarantee legality and good conditions for the management of our territory where we control it. What's happening to us? And we're still acting servile. That's not true. Look, there was a fracking speech yesterday, an English multinational can't do it at home, she can do it with us; but no, no, because arbitration is going to pick us up and I don't know what else. This morning, on the Finance Committee, our own bank gives us a constitutional judgment against our own country. What the State of Slovenia has to do with it if it belongs to the European Central Bank, that it has powers at least. He's just breaking some articles. A while ago, we were all unhappy because Teran defended the Croats so they could name him because that's what they call him 50 years ago. What I know about myself was Teran. And Tokai was at Brice's. The Italians kept the Tokai. No, we could immediately change into the name of the Tour and so on. We want a technology that's more expensive and worse, 5G, just because our brother over there says so. So where did this servitude come from? And why, by God, do we now say here, when we are sitting, also the secretary of state, why are we subsidizing multinationals, other companies, thereby subsidizing foreigners? We are a liberal party, and before that I have listened to my colleague Jožet Horvat to advocate for entrepreneurship, for craftsmen, for family businesses. Why can ours pay a good tax, all these companies, why are they paying a profit tax and not needing foreigners? What are we gonna do? Are we a state or not? Why are we being so servile? I've been writing a long time ago something that our authority is compradorial to work in the interests of foreigners. And does it really feel like I was right because - what are we doing? We're subsidizing multinationals. And not to be said, I don't agree with Levica a little bit when he says they're capitalists. They are not owners, they are managers of these assets, of various funds, even if the pension between them, the insurance funds, the investment funds, these are the managers who, since the neo-capitalism has been on the march since the 1970s onwards, have increased their income in these administrations by a hundred times, while wages are revalued, at the same level, at the level of the medium layer even fell. That's what's going on. Those real owners just lay where they're paid and where they're going. You know, when the crisis occurred in 2008, 2009, Lehman Brothers, who first broke up, picked up three quarters of the entire payroll fund. These are the kings of today's world. And they know how to get close and corrupt to everyone, and I'll say it's easy, even if it's just lunch and they're taking pictures with it. I'm afraid this is happening to us, that we're so servile. Why, for God's sake, did we do our country? I'm still proud of her, and I want to do my best, but let's defend her. Don't kneel in front of everyone right now. What would you say? Which is what the aliens are advising us to do. And we've all been listening to how we're going to privatize. Here, this trinity of God, when we say this now, this trinity, when we pick it up, is this privatisation and the devaluement of finance. We picked this up and we lost, and beautiful companies went to the frags. When we went after one of them, he turned around. [[Incomprehensible]] We don't, I'm afraid we don't have any pride anymore, and we don't have any courage, we just have servitude. The fact that we're taxing something, and that's not what this is about, we're subsidizing. This is the subsidisation of foreigners and the castration of domestics to carry everything. They don't have to wear anything. So I say, I'm for this marriage. This law must be supplemented and continued. And even if we wait a little bit one, three, we don't wait for Europe, because -- do you know how many lobbyists are in Brussels? $80,000, of which there are 12,000 organizations. Who do you think's keeping them? Who's got this money to support it and make us half a directive, regulations, some stuff? 80 grand, over 80,000 of these lobbyists. 20, 30 thousand walk daily in the rooms of Brussels. Yeah, what do you think people do? Their companies, their backgrounds, which have stronger legal services than some countries have together, can do things in their best interests. And let us give more thought to our own country, and let us not be so servile. That's why I, although sometimes they get carried away with them, sometimes they stay with this capital until Marx, and Kardel didn't get to the Left, and I say I know how to play around, but you have to think about these newer times -- where our city is, what we can do. I think it's one good initiative to stop subsidizing foreigners. Let's stop being co-conspirators! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Since there are very few reported debaters, I should read the order of the following debaters. In view of Mr Ljubo Žnidar's apology, the next word is Mr Boštjan Koražija, then Mr Marko Bandelli, Primož Siter and finally Suzanne Le Šimenka. Here you go, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u122	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. First of all, I'm just going to relate to what kind of men are basically running a country that doesn't hope to come to the National Assembly meeting. And then they really send the ladies here, who have to fight or fight for them here. This also tells us much about this government’s pride, or how much of it it has, but in fact, today they have proved one great cowardice. I would also like to commend Monika Gregorčič from SMC, and before that, Moica Žnidarič, who are here, is in the coalition, and I know she will discuss Monica. I think you will or won't you? Okay. Yet they are here to discuss or to be in a situation, on the other hand, no one is there through. No one. In order to at least give us a negative opinion or even a suggestion, I have to commend Jani Ivanus, who is from the SNS and is here all the time. But now let's move on. We talked earlier about who has already introduced this digital service tax, and I've been doing a lot of business with France, because you know how things are going now that the matter is really frozen, but they started this procedure last year to introduce this digital tax. In fact, I will now read what their finance minister Bruno Le Maire said at the time. He said: "France is sovereign and decides on its own tax rules". That is to say, what Mr Starović has already explained is that I do not know why we are so servile or why we are also so insolvent or because we have really fought for independence, but also on the right hand side, these things always come from 30 years ago, do not feel that they really think that we have fought for independence but for a single country because they do not really prove it. Because then we'd be here today, we'd be discussing with us, and we'd be fighting for the country. That's the way it is. When France went to this discourse about this digital tax or digital service, it immediately began to threaten the United States or the United States of America. We all know why. Because this has already been mentioned today because these are the largest companies in the United States. I know Trump was pretty aggressive about France, too. But what's interesting is that when these things happened and even when the US threatened France, the EU actually took the side of France and said or also responded in the sense that the EU would respond as one in this case. So basically, there were things going on about this digital service tax, you've explained before that things have been going on. But what is interesting here is that there was no serious EU intention if France went into this action alone or if it organised it itself or prepared for this digital service tax itself. So I don't know what kind of information you have directly or indirectly in the EU. If such a large country, which is actually a bearer country of the EU, France, is going into a stand-alone version of this digital service tax, then I do not believe that there is any future common tax at EU level, and at global level I will not even explain, because I do not think there is a chance at all. What else would you say? Also in terms of paying taxes, since formerly Comrade Kordiš has very well explained these things as to how our citizens and citizens should actually be up-to-date in paying all the taxes they have, is up-to-date in paying all the bills they have. And what's interesting is that even those people who are actually on the edge, I'm going to say, almost some social existence, are actually the best at paying these particular taxes. And then it's really incomprehensible when you come here or even when you listen to this story, that the biggest ones won't pay anything. And that is the error of capitalism basically brought to a complete end. And I know that you were today, that's how I felt, thrown into this situation to fight to come here, to tell you what they told you to say. Look, I expected Mr. Shircelj to come here, to present the matter to us or to talk to us, to propose any changes, including possible amendments and these matters, and to praise you earlier, which are the ones in this coalition that you at least hope for. The hat's down because apparently the men aren't on the other side right now. I don't know where they are, what they're doing, who they're dealing with. I don't mean to banalize things here right now, but I think every man has to be responsible. When you're responsible for running a government or managing a ministry, it's only right to come, expose yourself, say, even if you don't agree. That's the way it is. What else would you say about this tax? At a time like this, I think that every euro would come in bloody handy, and I don't understand why we wouldn't support at least the possibility of getting a few million euros in the budget, not just the euro and two, but I think that about 10 million would come in at the beginning or come into the state budget. From this point of view, I do not understand the Ministry of Finance how it does not respond or at least offers hands or comes to discuss with us or even suggests a variant. Because, given what we've heard on TV today, we're going to fight for every euro. And if the Minister of Finance and the President of the Government do not want to fight for every euro, they do not want to fight for this country but for our citizens and citizens. That's a fact. The situation is not easy, the situation is difficult, and if you are not going to fight, then throw the rifle into the corn, as you say, and give everyone else a chance to move the matter forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The next debater is Mr Marko Bandelli and then, as the last Mr Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you, Madam President. I don't have much time, but at least to develop a little thought. I don't understand why here. We've been given the opportunity on the tray to cash out something that gives us a clean shot here so that something from this title can go to the state cash register. I don't understand. Waiting for others, waiting for what others will do because Italy is waiting because France is waiting. Italy's been cashing for so long, then she put it on a standby case, she's had it for years. But we have to wait. What are we waiting for? For five years, Europe has not yet agreed on this and it will certainly not agree for another five years because there are different interests here. And we ourselves know what the market is like between the United States of America and China and what it is. Of course they don't. Do you know what Facebook has? I've read 70 billion. 70 billion traffic, 18 billion profits. I don't spit on capital. Thank God we have capital, if we don't, we wouldn't have social security. There must always be so much capital and we must keep it that way. But what's fair is fair. How much is that honesty? Now, at this point, I don't think it's fair because it's disproportionate. I'm giving the Airbnb case; the person who gives the apartment, she gets an apartment that she could have paid for her whole life, has to pay 27.5% of the capital tax from renting the apartment. How much does the middleman who was there pay, and he's the one who's doing the real business? Practically nothing. You know, there's such a imbalance that I think it's right for something to go to the cashier's office. Since I think my dilemma here is always the one, as I say for so many days and months, the state sees no solution to the exit from this tunnel. He immediately sees the opportunity to repay and convince everything, because that is why so many tests are being done that we are as bad as possible that we are the worst, all we can do, we are in an epidemic that we can be in such a place that we can ask again the fiscal world for one billion extra, because we have all the conditions that we can do this. But it's got to be one day to bring it all back. And even if it's small, it's small for you, I don't have much time to get inside that $8.10 million, I don't know how long it's been planned. Do you know how to build a house? Brick on a brick, make yourself a house. You need to start getting in slowly. And even if you can't pick up on such things, it means you didn't fully understand anything at that ministry. You know very well how a man is credited, but you don't know how to get it back. I'm not talking about tax collection, because we're already overloaded, wages are overloaded, everything's overloaded, because we know that, but here we are given, by our own words, on the tray and throwing it out the window. Cash it out, put it in the cultural heritage where you want it, because you can put it in the future. I don't get it. I just don't understand why you're against it. I don't understand. I can see it differently. It is more important to be credited, but in no way to regain funds – this is your policy. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you very much. And as the last Mr. Primoz Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u126	I'm the last one. It is said that the entire government coalition has dropped its participation in the debate. Okay, whatever. I'll start with that mean no. With this proposal in the Levica Group, obviously with the support of other opposition parties, we are essentially giving one such beautiful gift. One such good trophy, which would mean a great deal at symbolic level and would also somehow enrich our state budget. But, okay, it wasn't written by our own, so it's wrong or whatever. I am in my understanding of tax policy, for the first time, I am not an expert, I am trying to understand it at the level of one such household accounting, but in fact that is enough for a citizen. It is sufficient because it is meaningful to understand it in the way that it was described by Ambassador Gregorčič in his position or in the position of the modern Centre's Group of the Parties, where he says that it is essential to create a fair and effective tax environment. I think this is an excellent starting point for understanding how tax policy must work. It is said to be effective in creating an effective tax environment and a fair tax environment. Now, let's define what an effective and fair tax environment really means. I'm a citizen, and for every thing I buy, for every thing I do, every thing that comes to me and involves some transaction, I pay the tax. The tax on every thing that comes through, buys or manufactures, is paid by my mother, for example, who lives on a minimum pension, and by her former co-worker and her neighbor, all the other people who live on minimum pensions or minimum wages or whatever, but still, we contribute, we all contribute. Why? Because the system is designed to create social solidarity. We all put something together, we all give in principle as much as we can give to create a society in which we can live normally, safely everyone in which we can drive on roads, where we can go to a store where we can hang out and where those who are retired can receive a pension and so on. And efficiency in taxation the importance that everyone contributes, everyone who creates something, everyone who receives something, contributes, everyone, no matter how financially, economically strong. And the second part, it makes sense to create a tax environment that is fair. Well, this is where it gets interesting. Why? Because in this work, society demands that everyone contribute as much as possible. So basically, the more you contribute, the less you make, the more society will survive if you contribute less, just according to how much you can contribute. I am now afraid that, especially in the light of the discussion about these technological giants, billions and billions, we cannot talk about fair taxation that would result in some just society. The proposal we have on the table brings about €10 million to our budget. What you might say is that this is not as big as Shakespeare says: “Much Ado About Nothing”, or a lot of noise for nothing. But let's think about it, or let's remember what Minister Gantar is, I think, correct me if I'm wrong, but before considering the balance of the budget that was here two, three weeks ago, he said, "Hey, every euro counts. We will have to fight for every euro in the field of health." Here, however, a law that gives 10 million dollars, which, if the government’s priorities are adjusted as necessary, could easily be diverted to — where? To health care. We still have an infection clinic in a 150-year-old building and homes for the elderly, which I'm not gonna talk about right now. [[…]] So even if, okay, 10 million, which is not an astronomical sum in the light of the budget, even if we understand that such a measure or such a law is more a strategic-political step or an answer at the level of some strategic-political question, that is okay, because we are, in fact, setting ourselves up, as mentioned earlier in the discussion, as to whether we will be sovereign in our relationship to others, to external stakeholders, whether we will stand on our feet as a mature society, or whether we will lie down in the old way, after that method, and say that it will not accidentally scare anyone. Although we have also seen in the discussion, Luke explained in the introduction that there is no logic in such measures to expel anyone from the Slovenian space. Why can't we step up to the visa of these big players who are 170 times stronger than the GDP of Slovenia, and like the UK, which has declared Facebook nicely, and France, which has reached some 700-million deal with Apple? And we're just like, "Oh, they're not gonna say anything. We're small, we're irrelevant." As we speak of the entire digital world, one more thing must be understood: it will be even more clear why these giants, however long ago, are contributing to the state budget. Why? Because we are their main capital users of their services on social networks or on their online platforms. Slovenians and Slovenes, citizens and citizens, residents and residents of Slovenia are the material they take and sell. And then they make money and they don't pay anything back. We can casually think that we are basically users of their services, but we are essentially a product of their services. I, a man of the white race, 41 years old who lives in the Rippers, is married, has two children, is a profile that means capital value, is a product that technology giants sell to those who bring them these huge sums, of which I am then, and I'm not the only one, we're 2 million here, then we have nothing. In fact, me and Madam Secretary, Madam Vice-President, colleagues and fellow Members and all other Slovenians and Slovenians, residents and residents of Slovenia simply sell as one cheap prostitute. That's it. Here we are the main victim or collateral damage. In every normal business, it's decent to get at least some of this. And we don't get any roads, we don't get any homes for the elderly, we don't get any infection clinics, we don't get anything, we don't get nothing. Losers. The biggest loser in this system. Used, stored, sold and dumped — this is the subtitle of the online business of giants. Finding profiles, creating avatars, groups that can then be sold in a nice way to advertisers who bring in the main business. The main affair with Cambridge Analytica and Donald Trump's previous presidential campaign in 2016 is evidenced by sources, documentary films, see and see how this world works. We are not users who are the product of online tools, so it is only logical to see this and, a letter, we draw something from it. Therefore, in the Left Group, we are very nice and well-intentioned and once again trying to tell the current government what is the reality of online giants and their work, especially in relation to our society, and we hope for some wisdom. I have already given up so little in view of this part of the leader's tribunal, which is actually empty, which holds the Ministry of Finance, there is a Member sitting there, and this one has opted out of the debate. But still, the call is here, the marriage is on the table at first reading, which means we can still move it any way, any article in any way. Let's keep some maturity and simple business that weighs billions and billions, 170 times more than GDP in Slovenia, bring to the country, direct or to health, or to homes for older people, or to roads, or anywhere, at least those 10 million that are not budgeted. Why would Google and Facebook and all these giants catch the curves and my mom pays the taxes like everyone else on a minimum pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The applicant also took the floor. Mr. Luka Moon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you very much. These are, in my view, more or less general words, given that there is no longer interest, interesting, on the right hand side, even though we are talking about an influx of 10 million into the budget, which will come in just in these times. There was no interest in a single debate. In fact, I will respond to some of the reservations that have been raised in the debate of those who have debated and thank you for the constructiveness, I will respond, and then I will also have a little more general view of why this tax is needed, too. First, with regard to the implementation of the law, a number of reservations were made, how we will even tax Furs will recover taxes from Google, Facebook and so on, where I would like to say this. As early as 2019, the Ministry of Finance concluded that it is possible to rely on an existing system called the Mini MOSS, which is used by Furs in the field of VAT, when carrying out controls and payments in this tax. And this system already represents information and technical support for the registration process, the accounting process, the payment process and the VAT control process, with taxable persons both domestic and foreign law. This is an internationally integrated system which has been technically prescribed for all EU members. That's the first thing. The second thing is that Furs here can rely on existing good practices, especially in Britain and Italy, where such taxes have already been recovered. The third is that our law gives concrete implementation of the law to the Ministry of Finance and Furs, saying that it gives them room to regulate procedures in a foreign manner, such as those in Italy and the United Kingdom. This is the answer to how to implement this tax and how to delete it. Second of all, you're talking too small. Now I would say this; in a way it is that we are small, advantageous, because these corporations are paying taxes that will fall into Slovenia, change. I've shown you the numbers that France requires, 500 million, 200 million and so on. We are talking here if we take the last one from this list of companies that would be bound to this tax that we have published, this is Trip Advisor, they would essentially devote less than one hundred percent of their total revenue to paying the tax in Slovenia. In short, they have very few reasons to argue. However, if they are going into a conflict, we need to know that we are not alone, but we have a whole bunch of European countries that have introduced this tax for their allies, headed by France, currently in conflict with the United States. And there's nothing wrong with showing our teeth or I think we have to. And here I go to a more general part. We need to show them, for the first time, because these corporations, digital giants, represent a lot of competition for both small digital companies and all traditional companies. Why? Traditional companies are unfairly competitive because traditional companies have to pay taxes and are more difficult to avoid paying taxes through tax evasion through tax havens and so on. If you buy a car in Slovenia, then all taxes on this tax are dropped. If we, as Facebook users in Slovenia, generate profits or income for Facebook and Facebook to pay for it not even a cent. In short, traditional companies are, say, car manufacturers, in a completely different tax treatment, such as digital giants. Secondly, the problem is with small businesses. All small digital companies that are established in Slovenia and are few must pay all taxes in our country. Then comes some Facebook, which is a huge international mastodon, and you can completely avoid paying taxes. All of it. And now, if I might open up a little bit of what Primoz has already started, in a way, a little response to the Private. One of my summer readings this year was The Age of Survey Capitalism Shoshana Zuboff, published in the Financial Times and so on for Adam Smith or Karl Marx, depending on the 21st century angle. And she wrote, for the rest of her life, she was essentially dealing with the question of digital economy or the economy of digital companies and she wrote a very poetic, 600-page long paper on how these companies work and what their principles of action are, how they make profit. She says a little different than Primož said before. What did you say, Primoz? We are not a Party or a product of these companies, we are the source of the surplus of these companies. It shows that the digital economy, which goes to Facebook, Google and hastened others, Microsoft and Apple take over, is invented by Google, based on the principle of behavioral surplus, as it calls it according to Marx's excess value. Here's the deal. When you enter Google searches, Google records all this in a cloud and creates an avatar about you. So there's the avatar Luka Moon, where all my clicks are recorded, at least my interests, how much time I've spent on this website, how much time I've clicked on, which keys I put in Google and so on. And they have a very accurate profile of what I'm interested in. They may see me more in my head than a lot of people who know me well because I'm probably more with Google than I am with any person in person, except my partner. And now what are they doing with this data? They got this source from me, and now they're selling this source to advertisers, selling it, I know, to the fashion industry that shows me the ad for clothes, selling it to restaurants that offer me food ads, selling it without and beyond my knowledge can also to political parties, as Cambridge Analytica did. They are simple, Facebook has data about their users, their interests and so on sold to a company that used this data in a political campaign by sequencing users in, if I'm not mistaken, some over 900 ideally typical profiles and then targeted them, okay, they're susceptible to electing Trump, and bombarding them with such and such messages; they're susceptible to being deterred from going to Hillary and bombarded with certain messages; they're susceptible to being deterred from going to the elections and then bombarded with a third version of messages. It was a big international affair, just as the affair broke out when it turned out that the same corporation was involved in brexit. But the joke is that it's really nothing special, it's business as mental, every ad you see online is made by the same hoof as those ads that they showed in political campaigns. We, Shoshana Zuboff, find out this, the means on which they draw the source of data, which is then sold to their real customers, who are advertisers on the Internet. And we, as Google and Facebook users, really create these big inflated values that we read about. We create them, but we don't have any of them. We do not have any insight into what information they collect about us, not just to reach that information or to influence what they are consciously. If you go to read what we've agreed to, you'll probably get some thousands of pages of legal texts that you've basically confirmed by accepting various digital agreements when you've entered the website and so on. But of course, no one reads it, and these corporations know that nobody reads it, so they don't warn anyone. But we give them the right to essentially follow us at every click, at every step with GPS devices at every moment of our lives. And now, what are we gonna do? Are we going to be quiet or are we going to start at least talking about wanting something back as a country? I think that's the minimum we have to do. However, I agree with this author that the great step that we should take as humanity in the 21st century is to start claiming the personal ownership of these data collected about us. This is going to be a revolution.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which we will give the floor to a representative of the Government and a proposalr. Next up is a representative of the government. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to add one brief explanation to what Mr Mesec has just said. Indeed, this system, which you mentioned for the exchange of data, of course exists at European Union level, but Slovenia will only be able to use it if this tax is introduced at European Union level. And we already have an estimate of how much the upgrade costs would be when it probably happens once, the current estimate is about a million euros. But I stress that the assumption is that this is a tax at the level of the European Union. Only in this case could this system be used by you. The rest, of course, are other relationships if you were to make arrangements in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you very much. You've got your word. There is still time for discussion, so I ask if anyone else wants to discuss it. Mr Vojko Starović, as the only one or if you wish to apply to the debate, also Mr Luka Mesec, as the proponent and representative of the Government, will trigger the list or receive it. Okay, Mr. Starović, here you go, and then like the last Luke Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you for your word. We're a little bit like that, I think we've gone over these taxes. It is quite simple from the modern state forward when it appears that taxes are those that ensure that the country can function, to make some institutions, infrastructure, education, health, whatever we want to mention. This is intended for tax purposes and the basic principle in taxes is who benefits from it, so it can buy, move, second, third, but contribute something to it. And it is impossible that only we domestics contribute to tourists even when they buy. However, those who make excellent profits in this territory do not have to pay the tax. Here, that's what I call, that's subsidising foreigners, that's a compadre state, so that's the country that supports foreigners. As they had in China, from there it is derived from the Portuguese name of Comprador, this is a trader who supported the authorities in China so that the Indian company could export opium from India and that opium was allowed to be used in China. But then there were those opium wars, if you think back to history. So we have someone to create in this territory that we do everything to him, profit, and we don't pay anything for it. But it's not just the digital companies we're talking about, it's a bunch of multinationals, when we also find some tax havens, some transfer prices that we can track in these companies when we sell them to foreigners and so on. They create, and what they earn here in Slovenia, they take it out. That's it. As a sovereign state, I think we need to take some steps in this area. That's all I wanted to say. Anyone who serves here, if anyone else allows it, has to contribute something himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you very much. And now Mr. Luka Moon. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you. I'd just like a sentence of reply to the secretary. I agree that this will cost something, but as we say, the cost of this investment will be approximately 10 times less than the amount expected. That's 10 million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-10-22-SDZ8-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you very much. This concludes the general debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Tuesday 27 October, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the meeting's timing. I hereby terminate this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Have a nice day, everybody!
