ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened on the basis of Article 58, paragraph 1, paragraph 1 of Article 60 and Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and on the basis of a decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly adopted at its 85th meeting. 11. 2020. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member: Mag. Andrej Reich and Franz Kramar. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly shall be announced by Mr Krivec. At the meeting, I invited representatives of the Government to all the agenda items. I welcome everyone here. In accordance with the second and fourth paragraphs of Article 93a of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the agenda for the sitting of the National Assembly shall be set at a distance by the College of the President of the National Assembly with a reference, so we shall not vote on it. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that's a second defensively proposed bill on school food supplements in the framework of a restricted procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with a first-signed Matjaz Han. At its 27th urgent meeting on 12 November 2020, the draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a working mother. Since the Committee did not adopt the draft law after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u2	Good afternoon, everyone. Your Honor! The new School Diet Act, which we are discussing today, opened up to us at a meeting of the parental committee a variety of views on the organisation of school nutrition during the epidemic and at a time when education takes place at a distance. These are circumstances that require action outside of the practice that has been put on the table and point to the temporaryity of the situation in which we are all in the same situation. At times, we meet halfway with different views of a mate’s material. Although we do not then go together to the end, the common goals can be achieved in different ways, and we believe in this topic that we have achieved the goal that all those who need help have already received them. There was a lot of talk at the meeting of the parental committee on the appropriateness of regulating the treatment of matter in the School Diet Act. I therefore stress here that this is a temporary measure reflecting the temporary epidemiological situation and, in particular, a measure that will be regulated in the last anti-Korona law, which we will also deal with today. But let us not forget, the organisation of school meals for students and students who are educated at a distance is already under way. Free hot meal is currently provided daily for pupils who are already entitled to free lunch, that is to say up to the third income class of the child supplement, and for students who do not have monthly income for a person exceeding EUR 382, including the second income class for state scholarships. Eligible students and students take over their lunch personally, but those who cannot take over their lunch personally for justified reasons are provided by the local community. Even after the adoption of the Sixth Anti-Koronic Law, the same solution will continue to apply. At the time of consideration of the novel, there were also suggestions that all children who were registered for school lunch could simply come to the school dining room and have lunch together. In doing so, we have pointed out that by increasing the concentration of people in schools we are doing exactly the opposite of what would be the point of a measure to limit contacts and the initial purpose of introducing distance education. So we're teaching them at home, but we can't keep them in schools. We welcome the willingness or approach of congregations and schools to help children continue to receive one warm meal a day, even during distance learning. It is understandable that no one can function beyond his capabilities, nor can the congregation and the school. Some services of local authorities and schools also operate in a deformed workforce. We are already witnessing different scenarios and different approaches to the organisation of school nutrition during the epidemic. Some schools are likely to be unable or unable to provide free lunch to beneficiaries because they will not collect enough applications. Some small schools have similar problems, but there is also the possibility of connecting schools. In some congregations, even kindergartens were assigned to provide lunch for all eligible students in the congregation. However, we also have such congregations and schools that provide lunch for all students and not just those eligible for free lunch. Finally, let us not forget or underestimate the parents who are home at a time of distance education with their children and regularly cook lunch for all family members. Some children simply prefer to eat lunch from their home kitchen. All the reasons cited were that we rejected the proposal of the law at the meeting of the home committee in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u4	Dear Presidents, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government! In Levica we argue and have opinions and our position that in the social country of Slovenia children should not be hungry, especially when we aim to do so, this is to provide public funds and infrastructure for the nutrition of children in schools and students in secondary schools so that food can be provided to children. For example, in the first wave of the covida-19 epidemic, when we proposed to the Government in Levica, how to regulate the matter or if it cannot logistically regulate the provision of food to pupils and students, it was necessary to provide allowances to families from which they are socially at risk and who are entitled to subsidise school meals. This thing hasn't changed from wave one to wave two. When the second wave covid-19 began, the children and students had a holiday or learning started to take place remotely, the diet was still not regulated. That's why we made a proposal to the Minister in Levica on October 21st to settle the matter. This initiative has been supported by both local communities and schools, and this has been warned by parents by the Ministry, the Government and us Members of the National Assembly. Otherwise, today's the day. In the country, children are in primary and secondary schools, although long-distance education is provided with warm meals because a warm meal is important at the age of primary school to secondary school. Our school system can provide that, of course, if we provide logistics. However, this is provided at this point on the basis of the Ministry of Education district; the circular is an act once in force, and when the time of this district and, for example, the covida, when it is now completed in the second wave, remains unregulated, and in the case of re-education, we will reopen the question whether we have to provide the children with a warm meal or not. What this meant in the first wave was also shown by the budget, the 2020 budget rebalancing, when at the expense of the lack of a warm meal for children, €11.8 million was saved at the expense of hungry children. For this reason, we have prepared a proposal for amendments to the School Diet Act, supported by all members of the opposition parties, in which we have proposed a system-wide diet for students and students at any time when – if it will be in the future – distance education is likely to take place. The matter was well prepared, but unfortunately it did not receive adequate support. Because we believe that it is better to regulate this systemically, so that a warm diet can be provided at any time or in any case distance education, without depending on political will. So it is a little awkward or in Levica we are concerned about the work of this government and the majority vote in this national assembly when there is no problem when it comes to providing money for weapons, and the problem is and there is a deep reflection when it comes to providing food for students. We are therefore sorry that this change has not taken place, but there will be a time when there will be another alternative in power in Slovenia, when we ensure that Slovenia is a social state, food also for students in cases where distance education is carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Iva Dimic will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Free hot meal belongs today in Slovenia to every student or student who is educated at home and where the average monthly income per person found in the current decision on the child supplement or the state grant does not exceed 382,82 euros. Students and students are thus provided with a cheaper and free meal by subsidising their diet. This improves the accessibility of school meals to individuals from a socially weaker environment. Students and students must be enrolled in school meals. Now that the school is taking place from home, the free hot meal is provided by the municipality where the student or student resides, while the price of the meal and the way in which the funds are reimbursed to the municipalities is determined from the state budget by a decision of the Minister. Once again, I would like to point out that since October, since we have long-distance education, a warm meal is being organised for students and students. Schools, in cooperation with local communities where students and students live, provide a free hot meal during distance learning. The municipalities take care of the delivery and those interested in the meals must inform the school and apply there. The criticism that we are Christian Democrats against a free meal for all children is not true. Social Democrats, as well as Levica, exploit and abuse people who have no more school-based children because they no longer have school-bound children, they do not know and they did not know that children from socially vulnerable families were already helped before this law was introduced. This law is merely an attempt to abuse children for political purposes. In New Slovenia we wonder where the border is. In recent weeks, we have witnessed anger, lies, teasing, misleading people with lies, as well as personal verbal attacks. Matjaž Han, a lawmaker, condemned the attack on the director of the NIJZ Dr. Krek yesterday, which is correct. A good week ago, under the pretext of lying, his client colleague attacked the coalition MPs to rip off a warm meal for the students and students and accompanied him in the hall and monitored his work. Is that hypocrisy? Of course, the law is clear. Who's entitled to a warm meal? We Christian Democrats advocate the principle of helping the weak in our society. The poor are always among us, Jesus says, and I live by trying to help them. It is the duty of the State to help socially disadvantaged, especially children or students when it comes to nutrition. As Christian Democrats, we are particularly committed to vulnerable groups in our operations. The abolition of state pensions for rural women in 2011, the suspension of a scholarship for underage students and the abolition of children's allowances for pupils over 18 years of age have greatly affected the social situation of families and individuals and has caused these consequences to be felt today. Wasn't that what I just listed, the work of the Social Democrats who ran the government and the ministry for 10 years? We're in the week of Caritas. The password of this week is, I can hear you. Let it be directed this week to those we may not hear because they are not present on social networks, they do not follow politics, but they are among us and may need us. Since the hot meals are already provided and the weak ones are already being assisted in this way, in New Slovenia we did not support the proposal of a law that wants to change the system law of school nutrition, since we have already regulated it before this law was introduced.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if it happens that someone has a procedural proposal, I ask you politely not to yell when someone is speaking, but to wait for them to carry out their point or say to the end what they are doing, in accordance with the parliamentary hour and then announce a procedural proposal. Comrade Franz Duck, I've heard you want a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Yes, thank you for your word. This is a clear example of the abuse of the Group's position. This was a controversy, a debate, not the position of the Group of Members and you should act, the Presidents, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u9	No, buddy Duck. I don't agree with that. This was a presentation of the Group's position. I will not allow other parliamentary groups to suggest what they should say or in their positions to represent others. I hold to the fact that the position is properly presented, that no one is offended. However, there is no other way to direct their position. Colleague Masha Kociper, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Dear President, in this particular position, the colleague not only presented the position of the Group of Members, but, by name and surname, charged with Mr Matjaz Han that he said this and that and attacked the Social Democrats, and we all know that, based on their position, none of them have a replica, not a chance to answer. But I ask you to be correct, even when it comes to coalition partners. The fact that the name in the position is taken by a representative of one of the parties who cannot respond is certainly not what should be the position of the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u11	Colleague Masha Kociper, I'm guessing it wasn't about any accounting. I think that the gesture that colleague Matjaž Han expressed regarding Mr Krek was actually welcomed by Mrs Dimic. However, it is the fact that colleague Matjaž Han is a bill-maker, so he is here in a specific role. I agree, however, that if anyone else is in the position of anyone mentioned to refrain from doing so. I suggest we move on. Vojko Starović will present the position of the Party's Parliamentary Group, Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Your Honor! In the SAB party, we have repeatedly called on the Government to reconsider distance education, as it is estimated that only education in school can achieve all the educational goals set. Virtual interaction cannot in any way replace live contacts and has a very poor impact on children's well-being, so closing schools should be the last emergency exit. I will not evaluate the decision of the ministries to close schools in this place. However, the fact is that it is important for the development of children to provide and also to provide regular and warm nutrition. And sadly, the reality is that some parents cannot offer it to their children because of their service obligations or simply cannot afford it. In order to benefit our youngest, particularly the socially disadvantaged, we have already proposed, in the first anti-Korona package of measures, that the Government extend the range of measures to other vulnerable groups. When schools were closed down again, we upgraded the initiative with opposition parties with a proposal for a novel of the School Food Act. With the proposal, we also wanted to provide children with a school lunch on a personal basis at school for their education, which is carried out at a distance due to epidemiological conditions and other exceptional circumstances. In the event of the inability to take over a lunch personally, the local communities could, at their own discretion, arrange for the delivery of a school lunch to the home. We are convinced that the provision of a warm meal to all home-schooled children in times of acute epidemiological conditions is an important good and right that can be realized through a well-organised network of school kitchens in Slovenian primary schools. Slovenia is at the very top of quality school nutrition systems in the European Union. According to experience on the ground, humanitarian organisations have also highlighted the importance of adopting such a solution. The statistics of the Statistical Office of Slovenia show that there are 41 000 children under the poverty threshold in Slovenia and that the epidemic is further exacerbating the social distress of these families. In the SAB, we regret that the proposal for a law has not received sufficient support and that the Government has not engaged quickly enough. However, in the SAB, we still insist that closing schools is the last and ultimate measure or exit in force. Nothing can replace live contact in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Jurij Lep will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, nice greetings to you all! In the case of this proposal, the Desus Group assessed that this was another one in a series of incorrect and at the same time inconsistent proposals, which is why we voted against the proposed regulation on the home working body. The regulation of this area will be better and more broadly defined in the PKP6, a free hot meal will also be for students and students and not only for primary school children, as envisaged in the proposal for a law which the competent labour body has rejected. Of course, this does not mean that in our parliamentary group we keep our eyes closed to the harsh reality of the pandemic situation, which has caused a completely different way of life for all social groups and for each individual. Restraining and a different way of life changed our daily lives. In doing so, I hope to say that the school system and everything related to the care of children who are largely left to themselves in these times is still working well. School professionals, parents, volunteers and, of course, the country take care of this with a range of measures that enable this situation to be adapted as effectively as possible. Children are the most vulnerable member in our or every community, so it is only right that they are given the greatest attention in the general sense and at any time, whether they are normal living conditions or the emergency situation imposed by the pandemic at this time. The bill highlighted the problem of providing a warm, healthy meal during distance schooling. In our party's parliamentary group, we estimate that the problems are mainly where the parents of the child are involved in normal work processes at work and are even more present in families that are socially at risk. The latter, despite the possibility of ordering meals in catering establishments that can only prepare food for personal consumption, are difficult to afford, most of them. In the Desus Group, we assessed the need to help those who are genuinely economically disadvantaged, namely primary school children and young people in secondary schools who are entitled to subsidised meals. This is how we follow the principles of social justice. Such a solution will also be the legal basis in the package of anti-Korona measures that we confirm today. Finally, let me say that in practice the provision of free meals in schools and in cooperation with local communities is already ongoing, I have verified this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Nice greetings to all present! The Coronavirus epidemic has also caused many problems in the field of education. Education at home has led to the loss of contact with reality, social contact has been interrupted, research has shown a significant decline in mobility skills and, last but not least, knowledge. School closure is particularly harmful to the most vulnerable, those from socially disadvantaged environments. To many students, the school lunch is the only warm or even the only meal of the day. The start of home education has proved to be a major problem in providing food for students from socially weak backgrounds. A healthy balanced meal is essential for healthy development and it is therefore appropriate to ensure that children or pupils who are deprived of it because of socio-economic circumstances are also provided. The government has already responded actively to the problem. The Ministry of Education has sent the municipalities and schools a district in which local communities are ordered to take over the organisation and distribution of lunches for all pupils who have a subsidised lunch in primary schools and a lunch in secondary schools. Many schools, with the help of the local community, are already organizing a hot meal. In some cases only for students from socially weak environments, and in some cases for all students who apply. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we would like to draw attention to another problem related to school diet. According to the current guidelines for healthy nutrition in educational institutions, education and education establishments should provide a varied, balanced and protective diet. This diet ensures sufficient introduction of all nutritional requirements for normal growth, development and functioning of the organism. While the Public Procurement Act allows priority to be given to food in quality schemes in the selection criteria, in practice it is somewhat different. I can only describe to you the case of a farmer who has a registered butcher shop offering a local kindergarten free of charge for domestic organic beef. You won't believe it. They didn't take home free offers! It is essential that schools buy as much locally organic food as possible, which is healthy and rich in nutrients. During the consideration of the bill, it has also been repeatedly exposed to very few applications for hot meals due to fear of stigmatization. Certain fears of shame will not apply for a subsidised diet, as they do not want neighbors to see children receiving subsidized meals at home. Do you know how many individuals show minimum income just to receive higher children’s allowances, subsidised food and other benefits? Do you know how many couples deliberately separate and are registered at different addresses just to benefit from additional benefits? In Slovenia there are social problems and abroad they have very strong companies, and in front of the house are cars of a higher price class. That's what we can worry about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Tomaž Lisec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, Members, Members of Parliament, and all the rest of you welcome! Today, we have the School Diet Act under consideration, and in half an hour we will begin to consider the so-called PKP6 and both laws also have the intention of saving school meals or a warm meal during the distance education period. But in the SDS Group we have decided to support a better, more lively, fairer and more logistically feasible bill and therefore we will support the PKP6 and we will not support the School Food Act. The intentions of the proposer may be good, but the proponent has forgotten another segment in his mind. He forgot about the students. In PKP6, we also give students the possibility of a warm meal. In short, PKP6 is better, more life, more fair and, above all, more logistically feasible. At the same time, in the SDS Group, we stress: for the first time, that the existing legislation and the circulars allow all children to obtain a warm meal, both with subsidies and others, if they need or wish to do so, either in person or with the help of local communities. There are different good and different bad practices on the ground. Therefore, thanks and thanks to all those mayors who understand the plight of children and students, those from the social perimeter and all others who, due to the current epidemic, do not have the possibility of a warm meal to help schools and kindergartens, that is, children, to establish a warm meal. But in the SDS, we'd like to draw attention to two more things. The first case stems from 2008. In 2008, the leader of the SDS Group, Mr Jože Tanko, I hope to mention him, called Tomaž Lisca, a professional associate, and said to him: "Look, the country is doing well. We've been talking for a long time, and we've done nothing to give the students a warm meal. Let's write the law." But we've been writing it for a while. International comparisons and practice from the field led to how to write it. And the law was passed. But what is interesting is two: the debate and the vote at the time of the adoption of that law, and the second, that in 2010, the SD minister cut off a warm meal for all students. So today, in the SDS Group, we are wondering what would be the debate and what would be the vote if the SDS proposed that law or a warm meal to all students. At that time we heard how SDS splits candy, how unfair it is that even children of parents who drive BMWs and Mercedes can get a warm meal, which is unfair. Therefore, in the SDS we do not support this law and support the proposal in the PKP6, which is, above all, once more, more viable, more logistically feasible and more just to all those who need a hot meal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Aljaž Kovačič will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, hello! In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we called on the Government and the competent ministers in the spring to urgently prepare plans for the course of instruction in the event of a deterioration of the epidemiological picture. The first wave showed a lack of distance learning. The competent minister has had sufficient time to remedy these deficiencies in the event of further re-education. Unfortunately, the story repeats itself. The social hardships of children and the differences between them have only deepened. Therefore, the LMŠ and the other opposition parties decided to assist the Minister of Education and the Government, and we tabled in the parliamentary procedure a proposal for a new law that we wanted to provide students with a long-distance meal for some of the only warm meals. As always, despite our well-intentioned efforts by the coalition Members, we have been overheard. I'm sorry. The pressures of children and their helpless parents are worse from month to month, as pointed out by a number of organizations that observe increasing demand for food in times of crisis. Unfortunately, the priority of the rulings to help in these difficult times is different than they should be, otherwise the coalition would not vote against a warm meal for our youngest. Young children living below the poverty line are 41 000. More than 180,000 children have subsidised diets. We are aware of the pressures experienced by children and their families at the time of the covid-19 epidemic and long-distance education, so we have been alerting them since spring to the importance of ensuring quality access to education for all children, otherwise their difficulties will only be deepened and the consequences will be irreparable. We warn about the problems and urgency of immediate action in the educational field in the List of Marjan Šarc all the time, we support solutions that help families to cope with these difficult times, but our interlocutor, the interlocutor of all citizens and citizens, does not want to listen or listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Matjaž Han will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you, President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I must say that I sincerely thank all the speakers, the speakers in front of me — well, almost everyone. If I understood them correctly, they are in some way the meaning of our common intention that we must do our best to ensure a warm meal for our children even during school at home. I truly believe that in this Chamber, regardless of the performances that have been before me now, there is not one person who would doubt this well-meaning action and who would have had any thought on this subject. Of course, it is politics and perhaps also bad conscience. That this is necessary, if I don't say almost necessarily, I don't think it's necessary to stress. The reason, or even better, for looking at the real situation, what is happening on the ground, how children and families are experiencing these weeks, was presented to us by representatives of humanitarian organizations and people who are on the ground every day. And the situation, respected colleagues and colleagues, is not pink, I can tell you that they are extremely difficult. Instead of rejoicing in the coming December, too many Slovenian families today face unimaginable pressures, fears, uncertainty, unfortunately also with shortages; job losses, waiting for work, working from home, questions about how they will pay the bills, how they will pay the loans, whether they will pay for the chicken, for the warm clothes, for the food. All of this, all of these questions have been deeply cut off in every day by too many families. I am also aware that no one in this room has a magic wand that could have put all these sad stories in a single swing to some distant memory of this ugly epidemic. And I know that's what all of us would want for the sake of the children. As a result, we are even more responsible to do everything in our power to try to make their daily lives easier for families. And sometimes, respected colleagues and colleagues, the answers are in the palm of their hand. They just need to be detected, they need to be recognized, they can be realized without some major analysis, political complications and anything that could have been a week ago, we need to do something good. Since we have an extremely organized school diet network in Slovenia, the answer is how to offer this idea to children who are now home-schooled in essence, in some ways it was self-evident. Of course, this solution requires an organization, which we have seen to be a fine example of past experiences in the congregations if I do not say well. In the municipalities, the mayors did not sit as we did today in a few hours' debates on how this law would work, but they simply went into action and resolved things in their own way. Of course, according to our law, according to the district, it's a matter of no problem of glass. Therefore, we do not have the privilege to discuss in this place and at this time, when school kitchens work in Slovenia, when cooks pack their lunches properly in packages, who said something wrong, who ever did something wrong, who was more disappointed and so on. It's just, it's kind of worked out. We are happy that there has been a circle of Social Democrats, unlike others, we are happy to say that in PKP6, I will say, the article that solves this, of course we think it is necessary to save all children in this country, regardless of social status, because some children do not have this privilege because parents do, and they do not have a warm diet. And there was something else that we thought about stigmatizing when we made this marriage. You know that stigmatization is difficult in this country, and our law would solve this matter. We welcome you for giving the idea about the students. I think it's okay, and today neither of us has the right to knock on our chests, but I think we've all done something good for our citizens and citizens, one with the initiative, one with the law, the other with the circle, the third with the PKP6. Everything else, while some speak, is irrelevant and must say that I understand that some have a bad conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. Agenda item — Second defence of the Proposal for a Law on Interventional Militive Measures to Consequence the Second Wave of the Epidemic of Commodity-19, in the context of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Prime Minister Janez Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. A respected choir! In front of you is the sixth anti-Korona package, a legal package to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, and at the same time a legal package to preserve the condition of society, the country and the economy even after the epidemic. In this sixth package, we propose some measures that are new and propose the renewal of some that have been in force so far or have been reinstated. So far, we have addressed the problems of practically all citizens and citizens in five anti-korona packages; even those who were only born have received specific assistance in one way or another. Many help from various titles, it is said. Let me mention only some that are partially prolonged, have already been partially established and will be partially enforced or will be made possible in the following year. The far most funds were to help those who work and to help businesses to maintain these jobs. Thus, in the five packages, especially in the penitentiaries, we have earmarked more than 300 million euros to make up for payments or wages to those who are temporarily waiting for work. Almost 150 000 employees received this aid directly. In addition, over €110 million of basic income was paid, the basic monthly income for self-employed persons. This aid was granted to 10 000 beneficiaries. In addition to salaries, almost EUR 200 million was paid to those exposed to the epidemic, so that all those who were further burdened were not neglected when it came to payment, according to their leaders. Travel vouchers have been issued to help people, as well as to help them or, above all, to help the tourism economy. So far, more than 800,000 people have benefited from this privilege. Some 125 million euros were paid for this. Those who have not been able to make use of it this year will be able to make use of it in the coming year. We have helped with subsidies for the loss of income in education, in different categories; over 10 000 farmers from different titles, almost the second largest, or if we add it all together, most of the funds from these packages were for payment or subsidies for the exemption of contributions to different social insurance, for occupational insurance, for pension and disability insurance. For example, 151 thousand people were paid these benefits when it came to all social insurance when it came to pension and disability insurance, and almost 500 thousand were beneficiaries. Nor have we forgotten anyone about the payment or subsidies for contributions or contributions from all other categories. The amount of the allowance was increased for the large family and this increased allowance was paid to more than 30 000 beneficiaries. A single solidarity allowance was paid for pensioners, 305,000 and several pensioners with the lowest pensions received this supplement, and a solidarity allowance was also paid for additional other vulnerable groups and these beneficiaries were almost 150 000. In doing so, we have provided additional resources for the protection and other necessary equipment at the time of the epidemic, which went beyond EUR 100 million, and health care is at that time, but all health care providers affected by the epidemic so far have received the costs covered, paid over EUR 100 million, so that this segment has maintained the condition and is also saving us in a much more acute situation of the second wave. The sixth anti-Korona package brings an extension of temporary waiting time. We have listened fully to the economy here, so that there is now the possibility of a 100 per cent compensation for the temporary waiting measure and this compensation can be received by all companies that still come within the framework of the European State aid restrictions; all those that have not so far exceeded EUR 800,000 of the State aid received under this heading are said to be. This cannot be done in this European context. However, those who have exceeded this are entitled to an 80 % refund by the budget. We also raise the maximum amount of the partial refund to pay the salary, on average salary. A measure in the form of partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs is being introduced, a measure which has not been implemented in the spring is now additionally imposed due to the difficulties faced by those companies where fixed costs are high. The proposal of the Law or the Sixth Anti-Corron Package also provides additional information technology for education, for distance education, extension of deadlines when it comes to meeting the conditions for the training of young researchers, subsidisation of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security; co-financing of parental co-operation in a sick child in a healthcare institution up to the age of 14 years; additionally, the guarantee scheme is released, thus increasing the extent to which the company can obtain the State guarantee; extending the moratorium on credit; introducing a measure of non-payment of kindergartens, including fixed costs, or being paid from common resources, but not through parental posts and providing warm meals for parents up to the 3rd grade, is said for students from those families who are socially weak. As one rare or probably the only one in the world, we also introduce financing of protective equipment for athletes in this package. The government is also preparing the seventh package, in which we will try to point our eyes at a time when we believe that the epidemic will be defeated, we hope that this will be a package that will send us out of the epidemic, but we are not talking about the end of this year, of course, but we are talking about the next three months. During this period, optimists can be expected to successfully stop the spread of the epidemic in Europe and even in Slovenia. In this seventh package, we will also address certain problems that occurred only in the second wave, here the government invites everyone to contribute their proposals, including that part of the opposition that does not participate in the Development Partnership, our offer we made in May is still on the table. It does not oblige anyone in this sense to have any responsibility, and that proposal for an agreement introduces a proposal for a procedure that is necessary when difficult legal solutions are being prepared, otherwise it is chaos. All those who have ever participated on the side of responsibility in legislative processes know that, at the last stage of complex legislative solutions, it is not possible to include certain proposals that have serious financial implications without being examined and examined by all other frameworks. However, those who cooperate from the very beginning are, of course, practically equal here with their proposals, whether they are in the coalition or in the Partnership. So the offer is still on the table and whoever has any ideas is invited to accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you very much. I also give the floor to the Minister of Finance of Magi to further explain the proposal. To Andre Shirtzle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Honourable President of the National Assembly, Honourable President of the Government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! With this law, the government wants to prevent an increase in unemployment and wants to keep the economy in a state that, once the crisis is over, the economy will be able to operate smoothly. With this law, we also want to cut into some of the issues relating to the social situation of people, in particular the payment of those costs that are unnecessary at this time and the replacement of those costs that are urgently necessary for people who are essential for the lives of people. There are many changes in both the economic and social spheres. In the economic field, some activities cannot work, we will prepare or are prepared for them, so special solutions are also available for carriers, and they are prepared, which means replacing the revenue they lose because of the fact that an activity cannot work. At the same time, a solution is also in place for all fixed costs to be reimbursed to the economy, i.e. fixed costs associated with the operation itself. These are costs related to compensation for the use of building land, insurance, utility costs, energy costs and so on. On the basis of an analysis carried out between individual activities, the Government decided to do so in some fixed flat-rate amount. The criteria for obtaining this money are such that we expect that all or most of the activities will actually be reimbursed. The criteria are employed and the criterion is the loss of revenue compared to the last quarter of this year as of 2019. This is how we calculate or estimate that individual companies with around 3 million turnovers will have 60 employees in order to obtain, in such a case, if they cease to operate or have decreased by more than 70 per cent, about 100,000 euros. If they cut by half, it's about 40%, they'll be half less, it's about 50,000 euros. Micro, small businesses, for example, with three employees, 12,000 euros in transport, would get around €5 000 400 if the business stopped by more than 70% or half less if they worked in half. From this point of view, companies are in fact assured that they will be able to cover all fixed costs. At the same time, they have the option of suspending taxes. At the same time, they also have the option of deferring loans or paying annuity, meaning in other words that they can actually hold on to the market for as long as the government’s interest and assistance go through the crisis and can operate as they did in the past or without any obstacles. We want to help the economy, we want to help people, we want them to keep their jobs, and we want everyone to stay healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the chairman of the Committee, Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Committee on Finance is at its 49th emergency meeting, on 23 and 24. 11. 2020 as a parent working body considered the draft law on intervention measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave covid-19. The amendments tabled by qualified applicants are published on the websites of the National Assembly. In the opening debate, the Minister of Finance presented the reasons why the Government had submitted a proposal for a law. He cited changes in anti-Korona packages number 5 and number 3, listing new measures and areas affecting the financial implications, as well as the objectives of the bill. The main purpose is to mitigate the impact of the epidemic on society as a whole. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the service had given a comprehensive written opinion on the scope of the amendments to the bill. It highlighted the issue of the source of funding from the European Union funds. It drew attention to some of the amendments tabled which were inadmissible in the light of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. It also listed articles where the comments of the service were not corrected with the amendments tabled. The representative of the Council of State presented the joint written opinion of the two Commissions, namely the Commission for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance and the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, and specifically drew attention to the amendments proposed by the Council of State. In the debate, some members and members pointed out that there were many amendments to the bill and that the bill was not harmonised because it was not in line with the social partners. They also drew attention to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, as the draft law also highlighted the issue of the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum. They highlighted the problem of country indebtedness, with a projected spending of as much as €1 billion in this law. The question was raised as to when the funds contained in this proposal would be available, as well as what happens to the available funds from previous anti-korona packages. They drew attention to the excessive fines for offences provided for in Article 59. However, other members and members of the Committee have pointed out that the anti-Korona package 6 improves previous packages as the epidemic's dimensions are detected from the outside and that everything, including Europe, is surprised by the intensity of the second wave. Therefore, the proposal of the anti-Korona package 6 is an appropriate adjustment to the current situation and is necessary in times of crisis. The fact is that the epidemic will have an impact on the lives of people, so measures such as payment of wages or partial coverage of fixed costs to companies most affected by the epidemic are extremely necessary. In addition, it was pointed out that the situation of deposits in business banks, both households and businesses, was significantly higher than in the same period last year. In the course of the debate, the Minister of Finance answered a number of questions and provided further clarifications. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee has considered all the amendments duly tabled. The Committee adopted amendments to the coalition's parliamentary groups, with the exception of the three articles whose amendments were incorrectly tabled. The Committee also adopted amendments to the six members of the opposition groups. In accordance with Article 131, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee also adopted its amendment to Article 58. The Committee did not adopt any of the other duly tabled amendments of the opposition's parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted and adopted all the articles of the bill together. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Violeta Tomić will present the position of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Greetings to all present! We already have a 6th anti-Korona package to help people, businesses and other legal persons to overcome and survive the covid-19 epidemic and its consequences. Although the government boasts all the time about how it has taken care of all the inhabitants of this country, we know that this is not the case. Many people have lost their income because of the epidemic’s restrictive measures. People are or will still be out of jobs, self-employed people have been without support for much of the year, businesses are failing. At the same time, there is widespread apathy and anger over the bad or wrong actions of this government. However, instead of providing deliberate and targeted measures by the Government of Janez Janša through the CAP6 to mitigate as much as possible the negative health, social and economic consequences of the epidemic as felt by all citizens and residents of Slovenia, it is unacceptable to intervene in the area of the rights of unemployed persons, education and punishment, which do not have any connection with controlling the spread of the new Coronavirus. It is more than obvious that the government is using the epidemic to achieve its class, lobbying, sometimes even corrupt goals. Since the law is adopted by emergency procedure, public debate is denied and the consequences of its adoption will be felt much longer than this epidemic period will take. No, the government would rather take care of its supporters. Thus, past the standards in force, it prolongs the accreditation of the private New University, led by the politically highly profiled Matthew Avbelj and Peter Jambrek. This will be a public fund worth 2 million a year to this university. With such gifts, it preserves the loyalty of the opinional leaders who are employed or who operate at this university. Corruption? No doubt about it. While entrepreneurs are working suicides, the Government of Religious Employees is equal to espies and will thus receive a monthly basic income of €700 per month, which will amount to 1.9 million within three months. Thus, our common public funds will be one billion, which we do not have, but we owe them and will be paid by our craftsmen, so that they will flow into the private pockets of John Janša’s supporters. Corruption? Oh, my God! The situation of socially disadvantaged and materially disadvantaged groups has deteriorated significantly over the past six months, the re-declared epidemic and measures to curb the spread of the virus will further exacerbate the social situation of many vulnerable groups and the Government should therefore take appropriate social measures to avoid major social harm and to prevent a major deepening of social disparities in society or within the framework of intervention legislation. If, on the one hand, the CAP6 does not contain social measures to combat the increasing social pressures it should have, on the other hand, include interventions to the fundamental rights of workers and tighten the conditions for obtaining social rights. The proposed intervention legislation provides for a grave and uncoordinated intervention with the social partners in the Labour Market Regulation Act and the right of the unemployed to choose suitable employment. The Government proposes that the obligation to accept employment should take place immediately after the registration of the unemployed. Therefore, after the Government has not been able to strengthen hospitals and social security institutions in a timely, professional, material and financial manner, in the sixth package of intervention legislation, it proposes de facto forced labour for the poor. In addition, new offences and the increase in fines for offences have also been stolen in the sixth anti-Korona package. In short, fines up to 10,000 euros for calling for a protest against government policy, which is opposed by the majority of citizens. Such a law, which, in addition to some good measures for the inhabitants of this country, adds dangerous, harmful, corrupt and inappropriate measures, leads our country towards an authoritarian non-democratic and totalitarian society. We cannot support such a law in Levic, so we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Jožef Horvat will present the position of the New Slovenia Group - Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues! We found ourselves in the worst corner of the second wave of an infectious disease covid-19. Members and Members of New Slovenia, first of all, we thank the dedicated health and social workers and all those who have been saving human lives and helping the most vulnerable groups of people of Slovenian society for several months. Life in an epidemic or a syndrome is extremely difficult because it is the worst crisis in the second world sea. Therefore, sincere thanks also go to the vast majority of citizens and citizens who patiently and patiently take into account the recommendations of the medical profession to ease the spread of infections. The behaviour of provocationists, even in recent days attacks on health personnel, is repudiated and condemned. While some in the National Assembly have condemned this, the challengers associate with these provocative men and offer them to sign against the Slovenian Army. We have not experienced such a hostile attitude towards the Slovenian Army in its history. This relationship was presented at this year's national celebration on the day of the statehood, when the guard of the Slovenian Army was attacked with hostile shouts: traitors. Action to achieve political objectives, such as the taking over of power through human life, is also extremely repulsive of actions that do not fall within the framework of a civilized political fight. The new coronavirus and wearing protective masks is not a political issue. In order to help people and the economy, the Government has already prepared a sixth marriage aid package, valued at around EUR billion. Members of Nova Slovenije have been actively involved before the reception in the Government in the contents of all five aid packages so far, as well as in what is now being addressed by the National Assembly. It is logical, therefore, that we have supported everything and will also do so in this law. PKP6 is following one of the most important values of the European Union, this is solidarity. The government has been effectively coping with the epidemic since its appearance for eight months. In the National Assembly, we accept effective aid packages to mitigate the consequences of the epidemic, which is also evidenced by ratings for Slovenia. Thus, at the beginning of October Moodys is not the only credit rating house that increased Slovenia's rating by one rate, Moodys, for example, to A3 and gave her stable prospects. This confirms that, even in these difficult times, we remain a credible country for investors. Ladies and gentlemen, New Slovenia has entered this government in order to implement its political agenda with particular emphasis on creating a competitive business environment for the Slovenian economy or to establish a socio-market model for the economy. Only a strong economy is a marriage for the preservation of the social state, only a strong economy can finance the social state. We are grateful to our coalition partners for enabling us to implement our political agenda. This way, together with open dialogue, we will continue to create a better Slovenia. We support order that brings together freedom and responsibility, prosperity and justice, the market and common good. The socio-market economy as a liberal model of the economy and social regulation comes from man. He lives by the principle that each takes his own life into his own hands. An individual can decide for himself what he will do and where he will invest his money. He can also count on us to help him if he can't help himself. This is a recipe for the success of the socio-market economy. The socio-market economy is based on a strong medium social layer. We will also support this in the future. Dear colleagues and colleagues, as we have supported on the PKP6 Finance Committee, we will act unitedly today as a whole of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Dear Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! There's already a sixth antikron package ahead of us. It is also, like all its predecessors, designed to solve the health and economic crisis, and it also has billions of financial implications. The largest financial contribution is intended to solve the economy or subsidise fixed costs. We certainly welcome the fact that the Government has addressed the difficult economic situation and has extended some measures that have proved effective. However, there are still shortcomings in the law and, as always, provisions which do not in any way fall within the intervention law and which have a strong impact on systemic law, some even on the basis of human rights. The tightening of repressive measures by introducing Dragon fines, unjustified measures in the field of secondary education, extended accreditation in the field of higher education, all of which include a proposal for a sixth anti-Korona package. The government has re-established an anti-crisis package with subcontractors following solely the partisan interests of the largest government party. All attempts at dialogue, whether this social dialogue, dialogue with the opposition or proposals, have been complemented, have been slightly rejected again. In the SAB Group, we have prepared four substantive changes, and we have signed all of which have been prepared by other opposition parties. And, of course, none of these amendments were adopted on the committee. Do you really think that all of our suggestions make no sense? Do you therefore find it pointless to extend the annual vignette, given the fact that citizens are almost unable to use motorways due to government restrictions? You think it's pointless to pay Christmas to those pensioners who can't afford their pension even basic goods? Or provide free tablet computers with mobile internet connection to all students and students, given the fact that they have to learn from home? Clearly, this is the case, since you are proving this to everyone by your companionship. Let me give you a few examples. The proposal to amend the Higher Education Act, by which the higher education institutions should comply with the changed conditions only when the second extension of accreditation is extended further, and not at the first, which goes for your New University, which is co-owner of Peter Jambrek and Rector of Matthew Avbelj, is nicely untapped. We have also not forgotten your previous proposals for the expansion of police powers and the idea of restricting and prohibiting the gathering of people in private places and premises. You have now upgraded these ideas with the latest proposal to punish individuals who do not respect restrictions on the gathering of people in public places and those who publicly call for violations of the ban on collecting people or organising them. If your previous ideas have not been adopted, this last and with some beautiful corrections is the prospect of passing through the parliamentary sieve. Do you really think you will increase government popularity by repressive measures? And last but not least, while we are arguing about your proposals, which do not meet the very obvious need for intervention, the health system is beating its battle. The situation of accessibility to health services, which is one of the critical points of the health system and health at all, is still unsustainable. Unfortunately, the light of improvement at the end of the tunnel is still out of sight. In our opinion, however, the real light is not even a national call for the reduction of waiting lines foreseen by the previous anti-Korona law. This involves financing all healthcare providers, including private individuals, from our tax money, without any criteria or restrictions. Therefore, in the SAB Group, in defence of public health, with the support of the LMŠ and the SD, we have once again tabled an amendment proposing a clear order whereby, according to capacity, the public health institutions would first resolve the waiting periods, then the concessionaries and lastly with private individuals, whereby the latter could only participate in the avoidance of public health disintegration within a limited period of time and with limited financial resources. Of course, this amendment, like everyone else, came across deaf ears again at a time when the public health system should upgrade for the sake of the patients and for the sake of the employees but not gradually decommission them. In the SAB Group, we cannot say that certain measures are not good. However, given that we adopt anti-crisis laws as the current lane, we would like to analyse the effects of the actions of the first five PKPs. Many of the measures did not produce the result that you followed through the measures. Much of the funding that was intended to mitigate the economic consequences that this virus has brought between us has not been spent or realized at all. Before adopting the sixth package, citizens deserve a detailed review of the effectiveness of the first packages. A well - known proverb says that repetition is a mother of learning, but all it shows is that, with respect to the Government, you misunderstood this proverb. You repeat your mistakes, but you have not learned much from them. We will not support the SAB Group in all the above-mentioned reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The pandemic is a global monster and has spread worldwide faster than anyone expected because globalisation has helped to spread the virus rapidly across borders. But it is not just globalisation, but the absence of real reactions to its negative aspects. Global challenges can only be addressed through the global action of all participants, nations and countries, as well as the entire network of international institutions. There is a huge amount of information on life and death, medicine and politics, the economy and money. The people to whom the media are built as a chip, without which it cannot survive, are confused to the extent that it is already difficult to tolerate. We don't know anything like that in recent history. Information is launched by passionate and irrelevant amateurs, ambitious and often influential and powerful strangers, as well as top professionals and professionals in their work and professions. Even before the day begins, if it begins at all, when the most basic and most plementary information credibility is needed to start re-create, information manipulation with the people is achieved. The torment is so much greater because it is at the core of all the existential dilemma. Literally. In the perspective of tomorrow, both companies and countries and, most importantly, each individual. Insulations in which we are suppressed by humans are in their own special way the ideal kitchens of all possible earthquakes. It would be unserious to say at our present time how things will turn out, which analysis or hunches will prove right in the near future or in the far future. However, in an ugly sound that seems to be making sense in a small way, it would be appropriate to consider the idea that we have never had so much knowledge of our ignorance. And we have never had so much ignorance about the imperative that we live and operate in conditions of uncertainty. Since March of this year, we have been taking anti-Korona packages of measures. Today we are looking at the sixth in a row. We do not know where this number will stop, but it is certain that every measure is more than necessary and necessary. Each of the anti-Korona packages, also dealt with today, is exceptional; exceptional at the efforts of experts and the Government that invests energy in the preparation, exceptional at the content of individual measures, exceptional at the financial level of all measures, exceptional at the intensity of the hearing in the National Assembly and exceptional at the time of the adoption of intervention measures. Each of the anti-Korona packages reflects an exceptional situation, a reflection of the management of the situation and a long-term reduction of the harmful consequences for the population and the economy. Let's not go blind. There is simply no easier way to take such measures. Let me make sure that some of the measures already implemented are implemented: the exemption from the payment of employees' contributions, up to now, EUR 435 million, the reimbursement of salaries for temporary work, so far EUR 300 million, the hazard allowance and special burdens during the epidemic, slightly over EUR 200 million, and the exemption of contributions to all social security costs of EUR 125 million. If we just add up these four measures, we'll get to the amount of billions and 60 million euros. In today's package of measures, it is also necessary to evaluate the most exposed. Absolute number one is a partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs for companies. Monthly over €100 million, over €300 million in three months. And if what happens is what's the real perspective that the measure is going to be extended to six months, it's going to be a little less than a billion euros. Then there was an increase of EUR 73 million in the maximum level of the partial refund and an extension of the 45 million work-planning measure. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Desus Group, we will unanimously support the draft law on intervention measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the covid-19 epidemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u38	President, thank you for your word. On the proposal of the novel there were several comments, proposals by the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise of Slovenia, the Confederation of Trade Unions of Slovenia Pergam and other stakeholders. Many people lacked social dialogue and more active cooperation. In the Slovenian National Party we advocate freezing the prices of basic necessities of life and to encourage the purchase of Slovenian domestic products. With regard to the minimum wage, employers' organisations have sought to temporarily freeze themselves, which the Government has not included in the current package. There have also been many debates on the topic of buying masks, so it would be wise to set the highest prices for protective equipment, masks, disinfections, sights. The problems of craftsmen and entrepreneurs are still great and we are not aware that the small economy is the engine and driving force of our country. If the last segment goes out, there will be catastrophic consequences for the whole country. It has been said that Slovenia cannot afford the closure of the country once again, as it did in the spring, but we are now on the same track as the industry is still working. A key novelty has been the recovery of parts of fixed costs for companies where they will be able to pay rents, compensation for the use of building land, insurance and energy. In the section for hospitality and tourism at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia predicts a new wave of forgiveness and closures. More and more are deliveries to the home; in Ljubljana around each corner we can also find coffee-to-go. The waste from all this waste will increase again and we will have a problem there. We also agree that a worker who is placed under quarantine at home for coming from a high-risk zone due to an infection due to his leaving the country on the red list is not entitled to compensation for his salary, except for exceptions. They say that penalties must be instructive, and therefore the Sixth PKP also imposes higher penalties on those who will gather in public places during the ban, i.e. for protestors and cyclists. The fines range to EUR 10,000, up to EUR 15,000, and threaten those who will publicly call for protest. But there is no half-deeded, respected colleagues anywhere. In the end, if we do everything together, the current government is working with all these six anti-Korona packages to ensure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are able to cope with this epidemic as little as possible. And time will show how she will succeed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Suzanne Lepi Šimenko will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. We have before us the so-called Sixth Anti-Korona Act, the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the Second Wave of the COVID-19 epidemic. Due to the increase in the number of infected people and mainly due to the increase in hospital capacity and the number of patients in need of intensive care, the Government was forced to re-enact the epidemic on 18 October. In order to re-enact the epidemic, certain legal solutions need to be supplemented, amended accordingly, some extended and some adopted in a new way. The law before us deals to the greatest extent with mitigating the consequences for the economy, in particular for those who have had to suspend or perform their activities because of the measures. The law aims to preserve jobs, many citizens and social and health care. That the measures that we have taken through the PKP1 to PKP 5 packages so far are correct are, in particular, numbers. We have already heard one here today, and I would like to point out some: the exemption measure for pension and disability insurance for workers has benefited about 480,000 beneficiaries, amounting to EUR 433 million; the temporary waiting measure has paid about EUR 300 million; the basic income has been paid at EUR 115 million; the solidarity allowance for pensioners and other vulnerable groups has been paid at EUR 125 million; and the tourist vouchers have been paid at around 930 000 citizens, amounting to EUR 128 million. The key solutions provided by the PKP6 are as follows. In particular, the following are important for the economy and job conservation: partial coverage of fixed costs for the most affected enterprises, compensation for the duration of waiting at home, simplified procedures for applying for work at home, exemption of rentals of business premises, where the owner of the business premises is a country or a local community, extension of the moratorium on credits for one year, decree and interest payment of value added tax, assistance to carriers which did not carry out transport operations. I would point out to citizens the following: exemption from kindergarten payments, if the child does not attend it, a warm meal for students and students from socially disadvantaged families during distance education, exemption from the payment of student homes during the declared epidemic, simplification of the submission of applications for social transfers and other rights from public funds, generation of home quarantine certificates due to high risk of contact, remuneration due to quarantine, co-existence of one parent with a sick child in the hospital; also for farmers, financial compensation due to the loss of income. However, we have not forgotten those who are in these difficult times in the first battle lines, namely, they will receive an allowance for employees who work with covid patients in a gray or red zone. The estimated value of the measures under the CAP6 is around EUR 1 billion, most of which for the measure of aid for partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs. Despite the uncertain times we face not only in Slovenia but everywhere in the world, the agencies still credit Slovenia with a good rating. In October, Moody's even increased Slovenia's rating by one level to A3, which of course means that we are still a credible country for investors, and also that the measures we took in the past this year say. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will be proposing a law that means helping the economy, which means preserving jobs, which means helping citizens, of course, we will support them. Stay healthy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Brane Golubovic will present the position of the Marjan Šarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Dear colleagues and colleagues! If ever, this time the devil really took a joke. The country under this government has suffered the greatest defeat in its history due to its stalemate and non-systemic action. Nine months from the beginning of the first wave of the epidemic, the sixth anti-Korona package has been adopted, but the Government has not yet been able to find effective responses to the challenges for all affected. This is the main reason why the problems of certain groups of people and businesses are only deepening. Even in the sixth package, the service sector is more than forgotten. Otherwise, because of the opposition and the media's pressures today, the coalition is trying to correct the issue, we will certainly help them, and I hope that we will be able to mitigate the service sector at least a little. Let me quote one of the entrepreneurs who wrote to us: "Government measures are set up in a way that the hens would like to feed in a way that gives them corn under glass. It's making the impression that the money is big that the government is working. The truth is that we cannot reach it or reach it in limited quantities, even with months of delay.” We have always warned you about this problem in the List of Marjan Šarca, but unfortunately you did not want to listen in the coalition. If in the spring, waiting for work and part-time measures have achieved their purpose, the second wave is simply not enough. You say you're saving jobs. Nice. In the List of Marjan Šarca, we ask you who creates jobs. You can't do it without each other. Companies in the service sector no longer have their own resources to cover fixed costs and labour costs as they have been facing different forms of limitation for five months. The companies are exhausted. The excuses that there was no time can't be accepted. The truth is, the government forgot or did not prepare for the second wave during the summer. She had other priorities. If the Government were to deal with the epidemic, it would take the summer, based on first-wave experience, to prepare various measures to contain the epidemic. On the basis of these measures, it foresees in advance the consequences that measures to combat the epidemic will have on the economy and will prepare sets of measures to mitigate and assist the economy. The country would be ready, and in particular businesses would know in advance what awaits them and could prepare for all of this. Do you know the difference between the government and the Marjana Sharca List? That we truly believe that the epidemic can only be overcome together with solidarity and the inclusion of the profession. We are convinced in the List of Marjan Šarca that the services sector activities are closed because of the government decision – we are talking about catering restaurants, restaurants, fitness centres, hairdressers, beauty salons, tourism, shoemakers, the entire industry of the meeting and could also list them. These groups are solidarity with the community, with the country, with all of us. They are closed that the second part of the economy can work to limit the spread of the virus and not break our health system. They are solidarity with society, they are solidarity with the country and should be treated appropriately by the State. We need to help them survive to keep their employees. That's what we've been calling on the government in the last few days, and you didn't want to hear us. We have offered you a quick and effective solution following the example of Austria and Germany. All companies that had to close their jobs should be compensated for 80 per cent of the revenue they generated during the same period last year, provided that they retain employees. To those who have only partially lost their income, however, the aid is intended to reduce their income in proportion. I hope that you will take our proposal into account today, at least in part, if not in full. In the letter of Marjan Šarc and in the opposition, we have proposed to the Government that all those working in this co-op crisis in health care or in social protection, thereby endangering their health in order to provide them with an untaxable allowance of not more than 85 per cent, which is also not taken into account in the exercise of rights from public funds. So your answer is no. Let me finish. The time and willingness for the Government to extend accreditation to a friendly and private university in the intervention law so that this college will receive funds, even if it does not meet the conditions. For this corrupt act, which has nothing to look for in the intervention law, the government has had plenty of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Jani Prednik will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u44	Thank you very much. President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues, one good day! We already have on our hands the sixth so-called anti-korona package prepared by the government of Janez Janša with the aim of mitigating the effects of the new viral disease pandemic. The package approach by which the Government, following the example of the infamous Zujf, pushed solutions from many different areas into the same legal text was still understandable in the spring and early summer. The reason for such behaviour was the need for rapid action in a crisis situation. But at the latest in the third package it became clear that the Government insists on such an approach for two other reasons. First of all, because this is a great excuse for all the so-called submersibles that the government has placed in these packages. There's been a lot of build-up going on through the packages. It was also fortunate to include unnecessary content, which has nothing to do with responding to the epidemic. And secondly, because it can be repeatedly argued that it will include in the next package everything that it has forgotten in the present. Of course, planted articles also bring benefits, but not to people affected by the epidemic, but to businesses and individuals close to the current rulers. For example, the last beneficiary would be a private university, which in five years failed to regulate its accreditation. The epidemic, however, is a convenient excuse to operate for another 5 years without the basic conditions being met. It's very strange how a government like this happens in every PKP. That says a lot about her priorities. At a time when all schools are closed, some governments in the field of education seem most important to align graduates of vocational schools with high school students and to enable private universities to continue their work without accreditation. The rulers will, of course, add that some of the content planted by the amendments have been withdrawn. But the problem is not solved. As in this position, the underlings have also spent their share of the time and energy they should use to help people in each other's discussions. Nor is the problem resolved if the Government submits 5 content that is controversial and unnecessary and then expects a medal for wisdom because it has withdrawn one of them. Many also remain after lengthy debates, and this law is no exception. In addition to the unfair advantage for a private university, it also engages in the field of punishment and introduces draconian punishments for all those who would like to criticise the Government's actions. The package approach, in addition to wasting time on the adoption of unnecessary content, also loses its effectiveness because it combines content between itself and unrelated areas. Thus, today's proposal for a law that should solve the problems of economic inefficiencies due to the second wave of the epidemic had to deal with the Committee on Finance, the Education Committee has treated it as an interested labour force because of the content being planted, while the disputed solutions related to the protective measures and the draconian penalties envisaged for their infringement have not been dealt with by any parent labour. All of this is because of the government's decision not only to harmonise the solution, but also to package it into one law, which makes it imprecise, and legal certainty is reduced to a minimum. Dearly beloved, instead of helping the economy to maintain its activities and employment, we have therefore done less and less in detail than would have been necessary. Governments still do not believe that the credit scheme adopted in spring does not work and that it does not provide real aid. They are confident that the cosmetic adjustments of the liquidity scheme will be sufficient to improve our access to credit, reduce interest and extend the handover of loans so that small businesses, which have been shut down by the Government for the second time this year, can secure jobs through these funds. Even a multitude of proposals for solutions prepared by the opposition have, of course, been rejected by the rulings. Therefore, there is still not one measure whose advantage would be speed and simplicity. The government's excuses that it will include in the next package everything it has forgotten in the current package has succeeded. People and the economy simply don't believe, they can't wait for the next package of government solutions. We need a serious focus on employment insurance and the maintenance of economic activity, which will not be sufficient to partially repay the bleeding economy. Although it seems as if they are speaking to the deaf, we must call on the Government again to cooperate. In the Social Democrats Group, the law as it is now, we cannot rely on support, as it is fundamentally under-devoted to the underlying problem, which is the liquidity of the economy. In order not to oppose the law, we expect the withdrawal of content that is controversial and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Janja Sluga will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u46	For the second time this year, we almost completely stopped our lives because of the covid-19 epidemic. This does not mean that our efforts to help citizens and citizens have also stopped. In preparation, there is already a seventh anti-Korona package, which will particularly address vulnerable groups and those most affected, and today we are adopting an extremely important sixth aid package, whose main objective is to respond quickly to the problems posed by the second wave of the epidemic. Even though we have been able to predict with certainty in the summer that a second wave is threatening us, it is impossible to take action in the autumn months. The situation is changing, the virus is still spreading, and measures must also be adapted to this. If we could at least take a little breath in the warmer months, unfortunately, the second wave struck us with twice the power. We found ourselves again at a time when every day we count the number of infections and the number of deaths. On the basis of these figures, the Government must take measures to protect the health of all citizens and citizens and aim at bridging the spread of the virus, and the National Assembly must take measures to mitigate the consequences of the virus on health, social security, society, education, the economy, agriculture and our lives at all. There is no doubt that the consequences of the measures taken are reflected in exactly all social areas. PKP6 brings a series of measures to address all of this and to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic. Today, we have a law under which entrepreneurs will receive partial replacements of fixed costs; business entities operating in state or municipality premises will be exempt from rent payments; on the proposal of SMC, rent payments will also be exempt from sports organisations which will also be eligible for co-financing of protective equipment; further subsidisation of waiting and moratorium on credits; financing of allowances for the most heavily charged workers and financing of protective equipment is provided. And we are pleased that, on our proposal, the main nurses and professional hospital directors will also be entitled to work in the risk situation among others. The measures are good. But our citizens need them and expect them. The perceptions that the Government is responding too slowly, unsuccessfully and ineffectively, have become a constant. The criticism of the opposition and the general public is, of course, always admissible and legitimate, but it is only right to look at the situation realistically and, above all, rationally. Believe me, we also wish that the adoption of measures to limit the spread of the virus would no longer be necessary. We too would like the intervention laws we want to help our citizens to be less or less. This would be a good sign that the epidemiological picture is improving and that we are returning to normal life. Therefore, rapid responses to the new difficult situation cannot be compared with scheming. Should measures be taken only when the vaccine is available when there is so much damage that it will no longer be available? In the SMC, this logic of action is difficult to identify and not agree to, mainly because of citizens and citizens, entrepreneurs, self-employed people, farmers, socially disadvantaged people and everyone else who still need to take action. In the SMC, we are aware of the importance of timely response to the current situation, and we will therefore unanimously support the bill's proposal because it is our duty to respond to the challenges posed by the virus and to ensure that people are safe and in need of stability.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. However, before we go to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, I inform you that the services have asked me for half an hour of recess to review the amendments recently tabled. That's how I interrupt the session until 12.20. (The sitting was suspended at 11.51 and resumed at 12.23.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Dear Members and Members! I am informed that the meeting will continue at 12.50 p.m. Thank you so much for understanding. (The sitting was suspended at 12.24 p.m. and resumed at 12.51 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Dear Members and Members, we continue with the adjourned meeting. We are moving on to the debate on articles and amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] They were published on the e-club. [[…]] [[adverts from benches]] Is it possible to have a general discussion? Yeah. I see it's an interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. Please. The first one has the word "Jura Ferrjan". Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament and all those who accompany us are most warmly greeted! We have before us a new anti-Korona package of measures, which, like the other five, we have already adopted in this temple of democracy, is addressing the Slovenian population and, of course, the economy. I am pleased that many of the measures in the previous crown packages have worked well, and it shows that Slovenia, the Slovenian government is successfully facing the so-called coronary crisis and one of the responses is, of course, ahead of us today, that is the 6th antikornit package. In doing so, I would like to highlight some of the key elements contained in this anti-Korona package. Certainly also from a financial point of view, aid in the form of partial reimbursement of uncovered fixed costs is an extremely important shareholder of this package. It is 300 million euros for a period of three months this year and, of course, for the first half of the year, an additional 600 million euros, a total of about 900 million euros. I am pleased that it is also being extended with regard to the waiting for work, that the Government has actually listened to the economy to a large extent here. Here is the estimate that some 45 million euros will be earmarked for this measure next year. Then it is also about raising the maximum amount of partial reimbursement, payments, wages to the average wage – also, of course, an important measure. And if we go back to the economy, here's one of the measures that will also help many in these difficult and difficult times. Then, in the area of agriculture, it is about covering the loss of income in agriculture, and around EUR 10 million is allocated here in this package. Nor has it been forgotten about the supplements for those who are even more burdensome in these times. Here, in particular, we can also say that the provision of supplementary funds, as far as the public sector is concerned, is around €70 million. And one of the extremely important areas that have been discussed in this National Assembly over the past few weeks is to provide a warm meal for both students and students from those socially disadvantaged families. This is about those classified up to and including the third income class. For this purpose, more than €15 million of the budget will be allocated. I am also pleased in this area with the provision of information and communication technology for distance education. It is estimated somewhere at €19.5 million. Then there is the coverage of student home services – almost two million euros, and of course the protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security – over 600 000 euros is earmarked for them. Of course, it is also extremely important that this is also about the exemption of parental pay for kindergartens, both public and private, at a total of almost €18 million, which is of course also important assistance. Of course, we could go even further into the details here, perhaps even further in this discussion. The fact is that the whole package brings about a billion euro of additional aid, which is primarily intended for the Slovenian population and the economy. This is a clear signal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to fight with all consciousness, with all responsibility, for Slovenia to bear this epidemic as well as possible. And of course, as has been made clear in the introduction to today's presentation of the sixth anti-Korona package, there are seven anti-Korona packages already being prepared, for which we all want to be able to focus even at a time when we can talk about economic recovery and when Slovenia will – and I hope that Europe and the world – too – have slowly begun to pick up from this epidemic. Allow me to say a word, two thanks to all those who face the Corona virus epidemic in the first place and help all patients get adequate care, that gratitude is never too much and too much. So thank you once again for the work you are doing in these difficult times. At the same time, of course, I would also like to be able to unite somehow in the fight against the epidemic in this Chamber of Democracy, both in the coalition and in the opposition, as it concerns the adoption of legislation in the National Assembly and our example of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, because this is a common fight. I'm sure we can do it together, and we can do it together. That is why I am pleased and really support the sixth anti-Korona package, which will continue to help the Slovenian population and the economy, mitigate the consequences of the epidemic and, of course, lay some groundwork so that we can come out of this crisis normally and that we will ultimately be winners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Thank you very much, chairman. Yes, if this were a truly common battle, as my predecessor said, then perhaps the coalition would have accepted at least one of our amendments. At least one of them. We've been investing them in dozens, hundreds of them all the time, nothing, total zero. Unfortunately, despite many good solutions and beneficial solutions, this is undoubtedly true, the anti-Korona package six unfortunately proves that the arrogance of this power is actually becoming unbearable. You reject all the opposition's proposals; you even reject any dialogue with the opposition, professionally, the social partners, and in the anti-Korona package, you have six corrupts, as in all anti-Korona packages, who do not really have the slightest link to the epidemic. But now you're going one step further in your arrogance. Now you dare to push yourself into an anti-Korona package to supplicate Article 57, which without a shadow means only one thing; if it is voted, it means legalisation of corruption. As in all previous anti-Korona packages, the anti-Korona package 6 contains, of course, significant hoyssisms, this time in the form of Article 59 and its related articles, which mean, in fact, destruction, death and even the end of democracy in that country. With crazy penalties, penalties that fly to the sky, up to €10,000, up to €15 000, anyone who dares to demonstrate against this increasingly deranged and autocratic authority or even who dares to write this saving power down on social networks will be punished. With crazy punishments, that's how you want to kill democracy. Now you're imagining some poor guy. Just for a second, imagine him for a moment. What are you gonna do? You're gonna move him out, move him out of the apartment to pay for your hoys? Not to say yours, I know it's a harsh word, but still, an autocratic orgy. In the antikorona package six you also push the matter as if you were comparing religious servants with espei. Just like that. What, then, if the Roman Catholic Church is the only organization in the country that does not pay taxes? What, then, if he owns a lot of what should be social property? Cynical, arrogant and extremely arrogant! Arrogant as we've never seen before. In his third reign, Janša now, after a good half year, surpassed even himself and followed Orban’s path steeply. Although Janša’s government has always done a great deal in the past. The former Higher Education Secretary Borut Rončević and Dusan Lesjak received their own colleges and Foreign Minister Rupel, as well as ideologist Peter Jambrek. And Peter Jambrek now appeared as a boy in a six-pack of antikoronics. For the arrogance of this authority goes so far as the coalition imagines in all its power that it will just legitimize corruption in the form of Article 57 of the Jambrek. Legalized corruption, Your Honor! Because it's a personalized article addressed to Jambrek University, it's a money parking lot for Jambrek's friend, because that's exactly what's going on. This university will thus, although it does not meet the conditions for re-accreditation, receive EUR 175 000 of public money per month per month, or that you will be able to imagine it more easily, amounts to around EUR 2 million per year. And at a time when every euro we need bloodyly for many other things! In the opposition today, we will try, at least, to ease this disgrace, this abuse, to reduce this crazy fumigation of public money for universities that the Court of Auditors has labeled as something that reduces the level of knowledge and reputation of our Slovenian universities, because it doubles, thus producing the personnel that we do not need, and which then cannot get jobs in the labour market anyway. In opposition parties, we will also fight against the crazy penalties that I have already mentioned, which are intended for violators of the restrictions on assembly in public places or those who, God forbid, criticise this power on social networks. One more time. Imagine the poor thing that's about to happen. What are you gonna do? They took his apartment, his house? Throw him on the road to pay for your madness? So what does all this stuff have to do with the epidemic I mentioned? So, the accreditation of Jambrek University. What does this have to do with the epidemic? None! In 2016, the Government of Mira Cerar adopted a law stipulating that an institution called the University should cover four classical educational areas in Slovenia of six defined by the Frascata classification. Since Jambrek's faculties cover only sociology and humanities, but not science, medicine, technology, agriculture and so on, it is clear what is the problem of our Jambrek, who on 27 October has enjoyed lobbying and lobbying at the Ministry of Education and has carved his 57th Article. In short, the University of Jambrek does not meet the legal conditions necessary for obtaining this accreditation. Instead of complementing the public higher education system, the practices described are to evaluate the selection mechanisms. As a result, there is a general classification of diplomas and a study as such, especially in the field of sociology and humanities, but of course this is not of interest to you. You will give a smooth €175,000 to so-called universities that are not at all able to obtain accreditation. And that they can't get it – it's not because of the epidemic situation. It was written in 2016, not written this month in March. They're such empty excuses. I'm going to say one thing: that you're so shameless now, you're legitimizing corruption, it's absolutely unbelievable, it's a crime. And those in the coalition who support this crime are just as guilty as those who staged it. We know who the master creator is, whose friend is Jambrek, whose man is Jambrek, but those who support it are no less guilty. That is why I call on you, honourable Members and Members, you cannot and must not allow this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The sixth CAP is intended to mitigate the consequences of the covid-19 crisis. How much the previous PKP has alleviated the crisis, we see from the figures. We can also monitor abroad what quick assistance means to the economy when economists say that within one week they get the money in the account, but with us it lasts, lasts and lasts, and businesses actually fail. As far as another matter is concerned, individual ministries. The task of ministers and ministers should be or should be to represent, defend and seek solutions for their areas. I will speak on my own about the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, because there the Minister is doing everything else than what I have now listed, which should be her task. Educational institutions are in fact closed. Gardens are closed. Many parents have no place to give their children. The distance school, despite the actual warning in the List of Marjan Šarc and in fact the entire opposition, we also called committees, it still does not work, many students still do not have Internet, no computers, not to talk about children with special needs. Parents are angry, parents are in crisis, and in fact we cannot even say what these parents and their children must spend together. They don't have physical therapy, they don't have individual learning aid that children with special needs actually need a day to get through their lives. Students were thrown out of college homes, unable to work through student travel, not losing words at the level of the attitude towards Slovenian sport. And the government boasts that there will be no payment for kindergarten and student homes. Now I'm wondering, what are you talking about? You've forbidden someone to take their child to kindergarten, you've thrown a student out of a student's home — and you're telling them that now you're regulating the law so they won't pay for it. Yes, of course they won't pay for it! Then who would pay if they didn't have their child in kindergarten and someone didn't stay in college homes? Then why would I pay for it? Can someone please explain that to me? As for the two articles I will talk about, which also show the attitude of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to the area it represents. The first is Article 56, which has been withdrawn, but we will not just sweep it under the carpet, because the equation of general and professional graduation was very close, although the difference is obvious, the goals are different; it is said that after primary school different people choose different schools, for different paths, which then has different graduations, and this is due to the completion of education. And although this matter has now been withdrawn with the coalition Members, I wonder, and I think this is of interest to the entire Slovenian public, how the Minister of Education, Science and Sport at the government meeting, where the laws are voted on, has confirmed such nonsense, such a violation of some basic educational processes. I don't think a man like that should be in a ministerial position. The second article, which the coalition does not wish to withdraw so far, is Article 57, which speaks of granting accreditation to higher education institutions. Here it is necessary to clarify first that in Slovenia we have a national quality agency in higher education, the so-called NAKVIS, which grants accreditation. It is said that it grants or examines whether a higher education institution has the conditions to educate students. In the first phase, it goes through paperwork, if I may put it that way. Check to see if there's a school that's got enough high school teachers in it, see if it's got a library. And then, over the years when the accreditation review takes place, it's also in practice, it's said on the ground that it's assessed whether a university has all these conditions. Why is that being checked? First of all, it is checked to assess whether students studying a program at this university have such conditions that when they study, they will have a quality education that they will be able to get a job or find themselves in the labour market and will be a quality staff. So it's an emergency, it's for the students. And you would now withdraw this matter, this verification, and you would actually extend the matter for a few more years, whether universities are of quality or not. Let me say that the accreditations currently take place at the two largest universities, both in Ljubljana and Maribor. It is said that despite the epidemic we have, accreditation at universities takes place and there is no reason not to. If you do not believe us or the entire Slovenian public that this is again an article that does not fit this law, we are at a meeting of the committee as an interested working body, so the Education Committee has also heard the opinion of the professional public. NAKVIS, where this matter is actually being handled, has also been said to mention that there are many systemic problems, but that they object to the fact that this systemic problem is being resolved in a law of exceptional nature, which has no connection with the epidemiological picture. So, NAKVIS advocates systemic solutions, and you're saving your friends again. If you do not believe the opposition, believe at least three rectors of the three largest universities in the Republic of Slovenia. I will read part of their letter, says the Rectorial Conference: "The Rectors of the three public universities are surprised at the content of Articles 56 and 57 in the draft CAP6. We estimate that the above-mentioned articles do not address the current problems of coronaryism in any way, have a lasting impact on the umbrella system legislation in the area of higher education, even for the post-crisis period, and, most importantly, do not contribute in any way to raising the quality of higher education." And if you don't believe the three rectors, the Ljubljana, the Maribor and the seaside, then I don't know who you're going to believe. Here I will upgrade what the rector conference says. Not that you will not contribute to raising the quality of Slovenian education, but that you will lower it. Which is sad, especially if this is advocated by the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. It would be a waste of time to urge members of the SDS and NSI to support the opposition's amendment, but I will address members of Desus and SMC not to support this crazy matter in this law, which has nothing to do with anything, but at least with the improvement of the quality of Slovenian education, and to ensure that the Slovenian public education, which we also advocate in the LMŠ, will continue to be as quality as it is today, and to show support to all these teachers, professors, university teachers who are fighting in this way and in a different way today, that at least they are trying to solve what the Ministry has undertaken to bring some knowledge into the homes of all these students.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! While the CAP6 contains some good measures to help both people and the economy, it unfortunately also contains content that does not fall under intervention legislation. This is not the first PKP package containing such articles. We have already witnessed the enema, the pair and so on, and even in this law today there are still articles of a repressive nature in the law that was confirmed yesterday on the labour force, the Committee on Finance, that there is still a criminal provision that a fine of up to EUR 10,000 can be imposed on someone who, for example, will write a call on social networks to someone to do something. The fact that you wish to legalise the undemocratic hunt for influenzars in this article has confirmed in its debate that the coalition MEP, Mrs Monika Gregorčič, himself. She said this with the following words: “This article on high penalties is written to limit or prevent the influence of so-called influenzars.” Now, the very call for violations of some of the rules is defined as a single-handedly persecuted act only in the worst – beware – in the worst crimes. This is, say, genocide or a crime of war crime. And today you're making calls to a variety of influenzaes. So where do you want to bring this country? Many legal experts remind you of the danger of such a criminal policy. For example, Dr. Petrovec, a criminologist and professor at the Faculty of Law in Ljubljana, expressed this in the following words: “This is a completely uncivilized and reflects the aggressiveness of lawmakers. It is about subjugating citizens with fear." End of quote. That the proposed sentences are disproportionately excessively high, Mrs Katja Filipčič from the Department of Criminal Law from the Faculty of Law, Mr Aleš Završnik from the Institute of Criminology at the Faculty of Law and, last but not least, Mr Miha Šepek from the Department of Criminal Law of the Faculty of Law of the University of Maribor said in their legal opinion. If I can just show you a little more plastic. What you want to chase, that's someone to do something, is the same as chasing someone's call recorded on a social network, that tomorrow all traffic participants instead of 50 through the village drive 70 an hour. It's exactly the same, identical case. Given that we have all these warnings from the profession, the legal profession, given that the dispute in this article has been pointed out by our legislative and legal service, which has warned that there is too much arbitration when it comes to assessing what action, which calls for it into this legal norm and which does not, or has warned the CPS that the definition of this new offence of calling on people constitutes a grave violation of the restriction of expression of freedom of opinion, freedom of speech. We know it's human rights. And now, in view of this, not only of what I have just said, but also of the fact that such a provision, as I have already said, is not a repressive provision in intervention legislation that tries to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic for the economy and for people. This is the purpose of this law, which we are considering today – even as a result of such repressive provisions they have nothing to look for in this socio-economic law. Therefore, in the LMŠ, together with the opposition, we also propose today – we are already yesterday and we have been voted on – we propose that this article simply be deleted from this law. A well-respected coalition, if you do confirm this kind of sanctioning of your citizens, you will only point to what kind of policy you really want to take in this country, and this is a policy of repression and an authoritarian policy. And respected colleagues of the coalition majority: no, on behalf of the epidemic, everything is not allowed!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The word is Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for your word. The purpose of the law is clear: to eliminate the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic. It is a shame that this law also has a number of subversives that cause a loss of focus and in some ways confuse some good solutions to the law. But still, there's a few words to be said about these hoodlums. What, for example, does the equalization of a general and professional prom have to do with the purpose of marriage? What does the decree of accreditation have to do with the purpose of the law? What does lowering environmental standards have to do with the adoption of municipal spatial plans for the purpose of law? On the Committee on Finance, the opposition has tabled 74 substantive amendments with which we have pursued the objective; it is said that the consequences of the second wave of the epidemic will be eliminated. If I give one example, we have proposed that the students be compensated for the loss of income due to the inability to perform their student work. The amendment was defined as inadmissible on the parental committee and was not voted on. Twenty-one of the 74 opposition amendments were inadmissible. At the same time, the Legislative and Legal Service made comments on 95 of the 140 articles of this Act, explaining that some of the articles in this Act do not belong either to the content or to the intervention – some of them I mentioned at the beginning of the debate. However, these articles were not considered inadmissible or withdrawn. They were voted on and voted on by the coalition. You create your own opinion. If I'm going to the content now, which I think is even more important. The difficulty of the situation can be illustrated by the situation in the meeting industry. I am talking about congress tourism, the organisation of events and the like and so on are also elsewhere after other activities. The meeting industry had €270 million in revenue in 2019. A survey was carried out on more than 300 companies to assess what the revenue shortfall will be this year and estimate that the drop will be between 70 and 85 per cent, which means that the situation is critical. Of course, it is necessary to distinguish between the activities that were closed by the decision of the State and those that can operate, although in difficult market conditions, but PKP6 treats all companies equally. It should be known that companies or activities that are closed by a decision of the State allow other companies to work and allow the health system not to collapse. But this solidarity must be two-way, so we in the LMŠ have proposed that companies closed by the decree of the State cover all fixed costs for the fourth quarter of 2020. These companies have virtually been inoperative for 7 months, covering both their fixed costs arising to them, even though they do not work, as well as part of the remuneration for workers to wait for work and are completely exhausted. For other companies that will achieve or will have a turnover drop of 30 per cent or more in the fourth quarter, we propose partial coverage of fixed costs in a way that allows them to be classified into three classes and, depending on the fall in income, they will be reimbursed some of last year's revenues. These percentages are higher than the proposal made by the Government in the PKP6. We also propose that the country should pay the employer 100 per cent of the remuneration paid by the employer to the worker waiting for work. This amendment was rejected on the parental committee yesterday. I've noticed before that the coalition is proposing the same amendment. I'm surprised, but I welcome your kind of listening to us. I will also touch on the invitation to tender to co-finance operational costs for tourism and catering companies during the first wave of the epidemic. It is an invitation to tender to reimburse a certain part of the fixed costs to undertakings which have suffered a significant loss in the first wave. But if we look at the terms of this call; the condition is that the company had EUR 50 000 in 2019, 4 employees and that, on the day of submission, the settlement applications have all the obligations towards the country, which means that small enterprises will not receive this aid, companies that have gone into difficulty and cannot pay all the obligations to the country will also not receive this aid. This indicates that the Government is not fully addressing the problem and that is why we have proposed amendments to the LMŠ, which will at least address this issue in an appropriate manner. In view of the state of the epidemic, it is important to be aware that the consequences will not disappear overnight. And even though by 2022 we will have a net debt of an additional 10 billion, that is, EUR 5,000 per capita, I wonder who will repay these debts if the economy does not survive this crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. It's normal for everyone to look at the packages from their point of view. Usually the most critical are those who had certain obligations under this heading in the past, and they were not too great. I don't have the habit of dealing with one or the other, but I want to be real in particular. I think that all the measures so far and also the current package are intended to control and mitigate the consequences which covid-19 unrelentingly leaves behind. Almost all citizens received state aid. Socially weak, particularly the most vulnerable, has also been treated extremely well. The economy was protected so that it could survive. In the first place, health care, which was further targeted, was at both human resources and accommodation facilities. Therefore, allow me in particular to thank, on behalf of Members of our parliamentary group as well as the entire party, the employees in health and social institutions, where the burdens in these difficult times have been greatest; all employees in trades, the public sector, who are concerned that our lives have not been completely halted; all volunteers and good people who are and still are at this time, and who show a great deal of responsibility and self-sacrifice, some even heroism, and in particular every individual who respects the opinion of the profession, and who contributes to the incurrence of this virus. Appreciation for the garage work on measures to limit and combat the epidemic goes also to employees in the Government, the Government itself, even in the National Assembly, including all employees in the National Assembly, who contributed their share to making this crisis easier to overcome. The dark side of every effort and sacrifice of all those we hoped to take responsibility for, to practice in the most difficult moments, is unfortunately for me the unreasonable thinking of people who still doubt the virus and are convinced of the conspiracy theory and who feel that the state is not doing well and the state is spending billions to help people and the economy. Therefore, all the incidents that we have witnessed in the past are incomprehensible to me in these critical times. Like all ignorance, the bans of contacts, which are really based on the professional recommendations of our doctors and doctors, even if we ignore government decrees banning collection and there were no such ones, I fear that even the requests of those who actually have our lives in their hands and listen to them 24 hours a day, many do not want to hear. It kind of saddens me. Some people are just in the country who thinks that way. In the first wave of the epidemic, we were all afraid, and as a result, we respected what was recommended by experts, says doctors and doctors, and then we abandoned ourselves or people somehow. The result of all of this is that we still have relatively large problems at this point in time with the epidemic. Indeed, taking measures is opposite. It adapts to a situation that changes from day to day, even from hour to hour. It may also be disturbing that the aid measures themselves are taken in such a mass way that sometimes we don't even know how to follow it, but I am sure that the aid has not been overlooked. Today, we confirm the sixth package of emergency response measures to the epidemic. These measures focus on the economy, businesses, entrepreneurs, employees on hold to keep jobs. The adoption of all these measures will be adopted without consideration or I will vote in favour. Tomorrow's a new day. On our tables we will soon receive a package of new measures that will be refocused on the widest; on the weakest – especially pensioners, disabled people, older farmers and other vulnerable groups. This is something that we will take on in our Group of Members. We want these people to get help, too, because they are also affected by the epidemic. We hope and want to get out of these abnormal, inhuman circumstances as soon as possible and finally return to normal everyday life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, President, President, I apologize. Nice greetings to all present! The law that we are considering today is PKP6, so I can say calmly, without a bad conscience, that one of them is usually broken. Why? By yesterday, you were correcting as many as 41 articles out of 134 of the newly adopted PKP5 law. You have submitted 105 amendments to your marriage today, resulting in complete confusion, intransparency and intransparency. It is hard to imagine how all officials, ministries, businesses and individual citizens and citizens will be able to go through all this bureaucracy and all this confusion of all the PKPs from 1 to 6 and all the other ones will be announced. We have considered the law on the Finance Committee for two days in order to pass through all the amendments of the coalition and the opposition, which together were close to 200. When dealing with almost every article, we listened to warnings and comments from the Legislative and Legal Service about the dispute and also about the non-constitutionality of the articles, but obviously there is no need to take this into account. You have not accepted any of our amendments, and to explain to you, these amendments did not grow into our heads, but they are the needs of the people and the economies who called us and wrote: “Help us”. They are in very difficult social and economic distress and I fear that, following what I have already said, this law will not work in practice, that people, businesses, self-employed will not get help or at least not in time and not all who should. In addition, you have also considered several of our articles inadmissible by reasoning that they are not based on the objectives and principles of the bill, which meant that we could not vote on these articles. Even with the PKP6, you have not failed as you have with all the PKPs. You have reintroduced articles that have nothing to do with covid, you have included some controversial articles, such as the equating of general and professional proms, excessive penalties for protestors, the extension of the deadline for the fulfilment of the conditions for accreditation of higher education institutions, which in fact also constitutes a corrupt act. This is paragraph 57 of the Controversy. I can only repeat or quote once again the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which states, quote, "There are still content in the bill that goes beyond the framework of the mitigation of the consequences of a natural accident, for which there is no justification for how they relate to the purpose of the bill. Therefore, the content does not constitute an intervention, which is controversial from the point of view of the proposed exclusion of the rights to a legislative referendum." End of quote. The law also contains good solutions, which we support in the LMŠ, but there is no way to ignore that you have overrun all our amendments that could improve the law and help the needy. Let me mention what we have proposed in the LMŠ, for example, the 100% refund on fixed costs to all those who, for reasons of government, stress government decisions cannot carry out their activities. Furthermore, you refused to help health and social workers, where we proposed a higher allowance that these employees deserve, a 100 % refund of the compensation paid for the temporary waiting measure and could also list. Aid to people and the economy is therefore not appropriate, but measures do not work as the Government wants to show, and I am particularly afraid that it will not be timely. We are no longer in the first wave, and at that time the government had sufficient time to prepare adapted measures based on the experience of the first wave. The measures are indeed, and the most important is the apparent praise of this government, how many PKPs we have already accepted to be adopted by seven. Thus, we are talking about quantity, not the quality or effectiveness of measures. Obviously, we do not all have the same goal of helping people and the economy, Slovenia, to feel as little of the consequences of coronaryism as possible and to recover as soon as possible after this crisis. However, it must also be said that the CAP6 was adopted without social dialogue. The partners have learned about the measures from the media, and this is the modus operandi of this government – an underestimating attitude towards the social partners. If we are still talking about the financial assessment of these measures, it is a billion euro. I also did not get an answer to the question asked by the Minister of Finance as to how much they expect to spend on individual measures. Otherwise, in today's debate, I have heard one of my colleagues from the SDS that €10 million will be earmarked for some agricultural measures. Now I don't know, obviously we don't all have the same information, and I didn't understand what a single measure would be meant for. And we owe each other everything. And praising the Minister of Finance and SDS parties, even today we have heard in the party's position that we have a good rating from Moody's, really not the most fortunate. In fact, we can probably all remember that Lehman Brothers had a very good credit rating in front of the bankruptcy, but we know what happened later. As a result, I am rightly afraid that the aid will not come in time and that the law contains controversial articles, articles that do not belong to this law, so I will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca the Boxer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Thank you. PKP6 provides many good solutions: in the middle of 2021, 90 million is allocated for partial subsidisation of part-time work; in order to extend the waiting period of 44 million in 2021, it allows parents to stay with a sick child and allocate 4 million or more; in the form of partial reimbursement to enterprises of uncovered fixed costs – 200 million; in order to cover the loss of income in agriculture – 10 million; in turn, it allows kindergartens to return money to their parents for kindergartens, which is 17 million; in the case of public kindergartens and in the case of children involved in private kindergartens. And here, of course, Mr Aljaž Kovacic needs to be corrected. This is not a reward for parents, it is a payment to kindergartens that can function so that they can work so that they can keep their jobs. Protective equipment for students in the health and social profession, which is now being sacrificed to hospitals and homes – 675 thousand; a warm meal for students and students – 15 million. In doing so, I should point out that the idea of SD is also commendable for all to receive free food, regardless of which income class they are in. The current PKP6 gives those who are socially deprived, at this moment, these are the most needed assistance. But I certainly hope and believe that we will come out of this comfort and we will be able to put food into the education programme, just as we all have a paid food meal a day. But they don't have kids. But we all have employees, regardless of our wages. But right now, we need to take care of the most vulnerable groups. In order to provide information and communication technology, 20 million are earmarked so that all students and students can work at a distance. But where there is no signal yet, because the operator does not allow it, I know from the information of both schools and students, that they also receive written material from schools, that they are teachers on the phone with them; in short, no one is forgotten. That's what you need to know. Free nutrition is therefore one of the measures for the socially disadvantaged. However, since this was provided before the law that the congregations and schools could arrange, no one defended them so that they could do so. And they did, with my own eyes, I was able to see before the district you were talking about. Of course, the ministry has provided instruction to schools with a number of districts, constantly caring for schools, interested in them, listening to them, and listening to their parents. An ugly lie has been said today about accreditation, the extension of the accreditation deadline, which is also in the CAP. How easy lies go here, it looks like, through these microphones. It's not about Jambrek's college, it's about 14 colleges. Among other things, they are Physiotherapy, Physiotherapy, High School for Physiotherapy, High School for Construction Engineering, High School for Regional Management, where they study logistics, and others. It is about the fact that in 2016 a law was adopted requiring them to complete their programmes. If he rejected anything, he rejected all of our normal lives, so the school calendar was changed this year for primary schools, and probably something else will be changed. The evaluation system has also been changed because it is impossible to obtain as many assessments as the rules impose. Thus, of course, we also have a problem with universities and private universities, where programmes should be complemented in these years. This system and this process are not easy. If you look at, say, in 1704, 1705 was established the predecessor of today's Ljubljana University, four chairs were established in two years: logic, church law, physics and mathematics. Only 60 years later, a chair for mechanics was added. 60 years later! The perfect university was founded in Napoleon's Illyrian provinces, and then in the Austrian age, it was again changed and restored to its former state. And in 1919 she became the University of Ljubljana, which had a university of law, a Faculty of Philosophy, technology, a university of theology and an imperfect medical college. But she could have operated! And 2016 the law which has imposed additional programmes on private colleges, which are then assessed by accreditation – of course this law, this provision is checked right now in the Constitutional Court. And it's 14 colleges. And they don't take anything from this college. The Faculty of Physiotherapy is extremely, extremely important, it is a deficient study and, of course, we still need these people. Then we had a provision, but with the amendment to my regret, it was withdrawn. It was a matter of allowing an expert degree and a fifth subject, an additional subject, to enter all study programmes. What does today's marriage say? Today’s law, which this part wanted to fix, says that one can go to college without – I mean, without being restricted by anything but success – writes the one who has a general graduation. The one who has a master's degree has to do the fifth class, because the professional, that is, the professional prom, has four classes, and if you do the fifth class, then you meet the conditions for admission to college. But not every college, but from the same field of expertise. Now, let me say again that I know some people who have secondary education, have done the fifth class or have done these things in the past, in the past, when there was not yet such an arrangement, but have also completed humanities colleges. I know a double doctor of linguistics, a history that, according to basic secondary education, is a machine. You also need to know that many parents who have directed their children to secondary vocational education have done so in order to provide their children with a complete education. Probably because they didn't know if they'd be able to train children at the university. So this measure helps all those who are now deprived. It helps all of us, all of us, who would be able to create or register those who would join today’s deficient professions into the professions that we urgently need. These are medicine, science, medical techniques, or nurses. So, I don't understand that you're opposed to this, but that you're opposed so strongly to the party of Marjan Šarc, and I understand even less. Now I don't know if you know that you wouldn't have a premiere at all — probably — if he wasn't a woodchopper at some other time who could have joined the gaming academy. We'd have a premiere of a woodman or, at best, a forest engineer if he could be. But no. I'm saying that Prime Minister Marjan Sarec, the former prime minister, had a secondary vocational education, he was a lumberjack, and he could join the acting academy. Today is just you. Can you let me say it all the way?Oh, my God! [[…]] Today this very party, your client denies your own prime minister. What a pity he would even say, even finely, it would have been better if it had been like today, but I'm not like that. If we compare the effectiveness of the measures with Germany, my data is informal, it's from friends, acquaintances, relatives. Germany has not reacted as quickly as Slovenia has in certain cases and has helped people as much as Slovenia has. Slovenia is really good at this. As far as punishment is concerned. Look, we've all changed our way of life. We all sacrifice ourselves, live and work differently. We've been wearing these masks all day, and we have no contact with friends except on the phone. I have contact with my own family and with you, colleagues in this National Assembly and professional colleagues. I can't visit my children who live abroad. And believe me, I don't like the Influenzars who call for protests that I don't like the Members who are still attending these protests. And what he did, say, Mr Zlatko Čordić, who was harassing Dr Milan Krek a day ago, who was unable to walk freely or walk on the sidewalk, is unacceptable. It is also unacceptable that I have to follow all the rules, but when I pass the supermarket, there are men sitting in front of the supermarket without masks, laughing at each other and drinking the beer they bought in the supermarket. And then we wonder where all the infections come from. When I say, gentlemen, wouldn't it be good to have masks upstairs, they laugh at me, and I have to live with limitations. That's why I support these penalties. They're very, very late. PKP6 gives and gives to people and businesses. It is concerned about our health and also about Slovenia's economic survival and progress. Moodys has made a good assessment, although we are in crisis, we have good grades regarding the economy and banking. Therefore, I think it is necessary to support PKP6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Procedurally, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Thank you very much. President-in-Office, I know that the law is very important that we have to adopt it quickly, but I really have a hard time discussing it – although I know the law because I have dealt with it for two days on the Committee on Finance, I know that there have been 190 amendments – but I am having a hard time discussing it realistically and not euphoricly if I do not know what amendments have been tabled for this law right now. Today, even today, this moment — at least for the moment — may have come just 10 seconds ago — I do not have a review of the amendments. I don't know if any of the articles we're talking about right now are going to blow up here, maybe be withdrawn or not. Therefore, I would suggest that before I have a proposal or amendments on the table, it is difficult to discuss, I will say normally without euphoria and so on. I think we need to wait a little longer until we get a review of the amendments on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Thank you very much for your procedural proposal. I'm informed that the amendments are on the e-club. I've got a copy of these here. When I counted them, there were 25. So I suggest we move on. I've got three reports on the replica. The first was Aljaž Kovacic. Here you go. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Do you have a procedure? Please proceed with procedure, Andrea.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, chairman. I would like to ask if you can remind my colleague Škrinjar, under Rule 75 of the Rules of Procedure, that the speaker may only speak on a matter on the agenda. I don't think today is a debate about what kind of education some individual Member or former Prime Minister has, but we're talking about PKP6. Everyone we have discussed so far has been properly debated and we have not discredited anyone personally. So I'd like to ask you to warn your colleague the Boxer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u69	I fully agree with your proposal and the second paragraph of Article 75 is clear. I therefore call on all Members and Members to discuss the agenda. But I am allowing a broad debate on my own, and that is why this is happening. I hope and I believe that this appeal will be for all of us to discuss the point on the agenda of what has contributed. Mr. Aljaž Kovačič has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. Of course I have a replica. My colleague is surprised that we do not understand the LMŠ; obviously we do not understand it at all. About kindergarten. I wasn't even talking about what she said I was talking about. I was talking about, logically, that parents who can't put children in kindergarten now, and those students you threw out of college homes won't pay. What would they pay to have a room about 50 meters from home or what would they pay for? As far as college is concerned, you're talking about 14 colleges. It's interesting that only one college had a visit to the secretary. Interesting! She only had one. Only one Peter was with the secretary. And as the former secretary of state, we should probably know that the registration conditions from year to year have also changed. When the former Prime Minister graduated, I have no idea. Most likely, however, there were different conditions. But if you've already mentioned AGRRFT, you may know that they have entrance exams there, which is again one of the differences, so not all colleges are the same. Not everyone has the same entries, so it's sad that the former secretary of state at the Ministry of Education doesn't know that. As far as the Influenza is concerned, I'm disturbed, too, but I would have turned the picture around. Ask yourself why people believe more in influenza than you do. It's a problem that you don't trust the people, that someone who has 5 minutes of time gets a little shot, and more people believe him as an expert, and that's why, on this occasion, I look with sadness at the professional public, at doctors who have studied for years and years. For 40 years, the director of the UKC has been working at the hospital, and fewer people believe him as an influent because you and your rhetoric have gotten people to believe you no longer. That if you say it's nighttime, they think it's daytime.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I see that some Members and Members of Parliament on my right are very impatient. Let me tell you, the replica goes at the same time. Mrs. Tina Heferle has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mrs Škrnjar, I have been talking about these criminal provisions which have nothing to look for in this intervention law. And yes, I agree, all citizens are limited to certain contacts, both with friends and with families, not just you. But I spoke in my debate about the fact that, on behalf of the epidemic we have, this government should not dare and allow it to shut the mouth of citizens who disagree with it and who wish to express it publicly, in any way: either at meetings or on social networks or in any other way. You have dared to write this down in an anti-Korona package that is supposed to be social and economically oriented, and you have inserted in a repressive provision that is sanctioning someone's call itself, and this is extremely distorted for some democratic country that we want to be, and I hope that we will remain.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Thank you very much. A representative of the Magi's proposer took the floor. Andrey Shircelj. You have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I will also patiently answer some of the dilemmas that have been put here, including some claims, in fact, even in the context that someone has already been guilty of something and that there has already been almost acknowledgment of guilt and blame here and so forth. So from this point of view, I'm not going to go to this level, but anyway, I think there are some things that need to be pointed out here. I think it's mainly in a patient way, because the situation is such that it requires patience and requires accountability from all of us. Of course, certain provisions, which also concern certain other areas in this law, not only economic, social and so on. Certainly because this law and these laws regulate things completely. Of course, it means that the epidemic affects the lives of all of us. And the events are connected. Restricting the virus, suppressing the virus requires a number of measures in different areas. There is something about mitigating the effects of the virus in the field of the economy, the second issue is mitigating the virus or mitigating the effects of the virus in the area of social issues, and the third is, I will say, a health issue and all those issues that are also related to health activities. It's preventing the spread of the virus. However, economic measures or measures in the field of the economy are mainly and mainly important. These two also include the financial most important measures, namely the extension of the payment of the remuneration for waiting for work and the second coverage of fixed costs for companies. These are also the two most powerful measures that I can talk about as a price, and I will now say again about the price totaling around €900 million. Why the price, 'cause then someone's gonna ask me, 'cause that's not worth it. Because companies have to report these costs, they have to apply for reimbursement. There will be a great majority. Here we have, for example, when we gave in the PKP, I think that one, to students a certain amount of compensation, we have estimated how much financial impact this should have been, but because it has applied – I am only talking about the application, the application, the name and the transaction account number – significantly fewer students than we planned, and even how many students are actually, so this amount is so much lower. This, of course, does not mean that now this money has gone to nothing, but here there are purely real estimates on real assumptions. But as finance minister, I have to take into account, I'm going to say, the optimism or the probabilities that are likely and that there is no greater amount than planned. As a result, there is a difference between the realisation and the assessments we are talking about. I gave a very simple example as a symbolic representation of what might happen. Here are the measures still based on the application and on certain criteria: the number of jobs, the number of workers, when talking about fixed costs, the level of traffic. That's actually what it depends on. But these criteria are professional, the expert committee has prepared them to assist this government. So from this point of view, of course, this matter is the way it is. Any change, because some expressions have been used, which I don't think are real. For example, slave labor. Look, no one's intruding any slave labor. I understand the full right to freedom of speech, but I also have to point out if there is some inaccuracies, especially if some words are repeated and then someone will think it is something like that. Here it is simple to say that if someone is unemployed, then the law provides that if work is available to him, then he must take over. This does not mean, of course, that he cannot continue looking for another job. That doesn't mean he can't look for a more suitable profession on his own, but he's actually given a job here and I don't know what's wrong here. I don't know what slave work is in here if he's given a job. I think the first thing is that someone should be happy to get a job if we're talking about it. But if we turn this around now, he has to take it, but he can keep looking for a job, a second, more appropriate, better paid and so on. So, I think that's how the world spins. This isn't about any such activity. And that's what most countries, including democratic countries, actually have. Then we have a general view that the service sector is forgotten. I always say that the service sector is the most affected here and that is why all the measures are also intended for the service sector and also for the structure of employees, the structure of the work processes in the restaurant, tourism and so on, that this service sector can get as much and keep it alive. But it will always be, I agree, a case that will be removed or incorporated by law. Even those who didn't do so much business last year will be taken care of. And now, based on one example, of course, looking at the whole marriage, all the solutions, look, it's hard. We will adapt as much as possible within the framework of legal options. All the jobs. All the jobs that are actually gonna check it out. Thus, from this point of view, we are also aware and repeatedly emphasise that the service sector is – if you want to be more precise, tourism, catering, transport, hoteling and so on – to compare this sector with 2019, we are comparing it statistically. This sector will take longer to reach the 2019 level. Even if we are looking at international transport, for example, and if you are looking at what the global air carriers say or how many billions will need to carry out such frequent transport as in 2019 and in this way. Maybe it won't be like this in the next few years. Not because this government would not want to, but because these are the effects of the pandemic at global and European level. We are not the only ones here, and we are aware because of the second wave, that recovery will be later, that recovery will be postponed to 2021, even though the whole of Europe was on the right track for this to happen at the end of 2020. That can't happen. This is the real situation, and everyone is talking about it if you want, and everyone is taking certain measures. These measures, taken by this Government and proposed to the National Assembly for admission, focus on direct aid to companies. As many direct aids as possible; or by paying workers to pay salaries, according to the household, or by paying certain costs. In one of the previous discussions, the opposition demanded the payment of fixed costs. I recall these discussions when there were discussions about the payment of rents and similar matters. We're doing it now. From those discussions. Partly. I'm not saying it's about perfection, but once again, businesses don't have to pay for workers if they're standing, they don't have to pay contributions, they have taxes and contributions, they have a suspension of payments of credits and they pay fixed costs. So a few simple things to say. Both variable and fixed costs. Of course, anyone can say about any activity whether it is the right amount for each company or not, or whether someone will get even too much, the other too little and so on. It is hard to imagine, of course, what would be the answer to the criticism of the opposition if companies sent invoices to the payer for individual bills for compensation for the use of the building's land or position, but to be more accurate, for rents and for the payment of utility services and electricity and so on, and then someone would calculate and so on. There is certainly a question between simplicity, administrative simplicity on the one hand and on the other, between exactly how much each gets. If we look now at these economic and economic measures that we are giving here, which are all estimated at a billion euros, and I also said what measures are here most, there are, of course, other measures that actually prevent the spread of the virus; they prevent actions that would cause the spread of viruses. At the same time, I am fully aware that we are in the field of human rights, and I fully recognise the human right to freedom of speech, freedom of association and the right to a healthy environment and the right to health, including human rights. In Article 72 of the Constitution, this human right is also constitutionally standardized. At the time of the epidemic, of course, I will ask myself, if we limit what is contained in Article 59, this is a public call for violations of the rules and regulations restricting the spread of communicable diseases, this article speaks about, and if such gatherings or calls are in some way or sanctioning and not automatically with EUR 15,000, but between EUR 5,000 and EUR 15,000, this is a proposal in Article 59, or if we do not actually prevent the spread of the virus and thus protect people who have the right to a healthy environment and to health. Or do we not protect healthy people that those who call for public breaches of such regulations could do so and, of course, potentially spread this virus. We are talking about human rights, about the different human rights that are internationally recognized. Now here I think that in this situation, when we have an epidemic, when we have a virus, we need to protect healthy people. I think it's a basic matter to protect healthy people and thus actually do it, in my personal opinion. This is also done by some other countries, the so-called democratic countries, which we are all talking about as democratic countries. For example, France, for example, Britain, where old democracies have so-called old democracies. They also work in other countries. And we're talking about the range here. You're all talking about the maximum amount, we're talking about the range. Some even talk about crimes, we talk about offences in this law – I speak as a government. So, of course, from this point of view, people need to visualize what is actually written here. It also needs to be, I think, a little bit more accurate about it. I quote from the law what it says. We are obliged to protect people’s health — at this point yes — and to prevent anyone from deliberately influencing the fact that people do not have health protection. That's what these articles are for, I'll say. I think people here are counting on the state to take care of their health as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have a procedural proposal first. Dr. Franz Runk, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Thank you for your word. Look, the situation is a little weird. The Minister of Finance, as referred to in Article 14 of the Constitution, is not under his authority, and with all due respect for him, is not an expert on health and health issues, nor is he responsible for criminal policy. I mean, if so, then let the minister in question and the minister in question come from the government and explain it. Let's be a constitutional-parliamentary democracy. Procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Now, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Minister represents the Government and today we have Minister Shirtzl here, so that I cannot do another in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Now let's move on, first with the replica. Mr. Paulich, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Mr Minister, in the introductory debate, you mentioned that the law contains one very important article which speaks of covering costs and that all costs will be covered, all fixed costs. In your final debate, if I understand correctly, this claim has been softened to cover in part, part of the fixed costs. And even after my assessment, this proposal will cover a good half of the fixed costs. The problem is that I have already mentioned in the debate that in one basket companies which are closed by the decree of the State and those who operate on the market are working harder. That is why we have proposed a provision to reimburse those undertakings which are closed by the decree of the State for all fixed costs. And the solution is very simple: these companies can apply to cover fixed costs first on your proposal, get a well-reimbursable half and later prove actual costs and pay the difference later. It's a very simple solution. Nevertheless, it is important to look at neighbouring countries, and Austria has solved this even more easily. She decided to return a percentage of last year's revenue to the company and they would cover all their expenses with this money. A much simpler solution and much faster.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. One more time. Of course, I also allow such a solution as you have proposed; I allow it in the sense that it is one of the possible solutions. We've discussed this a lot, too. Once again, at this point, we have made it easy, even on the basis of a recommendation from the expert group and on the basis of separating these companies into two groups; on those whose turnover or income has fallen by more than 70 per cent, and on those by less than 70 per cent. The amendment was also adopted by more than 30%. That is how we propose such a solution so far also for this to be done quickly. However, we will examine this and if any measure is to be corrected or supplemented or anything else, it will, of course, be complemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u81	Thank you very much. I see it's an interest in the debate, so I'm starting my application list. Please sign in. We have 12 interviewees reported. The first one gets the word, Mr Marko Bandelli, prepare the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u82	Thank you, Vice President. I will only begin by saying that in the six anti-Korona packages of 240 opposition amendments, none have been accepted. I think that information says a lot. Now we get an hour ago a message from the President of the Government that we should make proposals for the seventh Crown Package to help with this too. Then I wonder who a man thinks he is. After 260 amendments to the opposition, when we always give our hand to each of you smart amendments, he tells us that in the seventh crown of the package he wants to invite us along. I mean, I don't have words. In six marriage packages, individual economic and economic activities are expected to be solved. That's what this sixth package is supposed to be. Personally, as you know, Minister, I've always been a skeptic since the first and I'm still. Of course, it helps, and I am also very pleased that these packages have saved many companies, but a larger company. Which are still problematic and in difficulty, but there are small and micro-enterprises that cannot use these measures in any way. They are still practically self-sustained, but they also come from these own resources. So what's it gonna be? But the crisis I predicted will be in January, February, when you see how many unemployed there will be; and I guarantee you that they will be. From experience, from experience. Partial replacement of fixed costs and this is exactly what I discussed on Monday, if you remember, and I am very pleased that the Government has probably heard some of my appeals just by reducing from 40 per cent to 30 per cent is out of revenue in the eligible period. That's what I've been talking about, and I've been talking about it a lot. We're talking about 110th Article of the Law. I repeat it very quickly, that I hope, because in this way it can fall into the ear a little bit more than it should. I still miss the right, concrete measures for micro and small enterprises, because I think they are really the ones that are the most beaten and risk bankruptcy. They're risking bankruptcy, Mr. Secretary-General. They can't use a shorter work schedule, you know that. They can't. They can't work from home because a lot of people can't because they're not officials. They can't take advantage of the possibility of a shorter working week than they did once in the beginning. They can't do that either. So their fate is on the rope. Interestingly, the government has made it possible to cross the border. I've mentioned this to you, but it's nice to have our audiences and audiences listening. The government has made it possible to cross the border for two hours after purchase. This is pure discrimination against one's own economy. Pure discrimination against one's own economy. It shut down trade and trade in general and sends them abroad after purchases. What's the logic here? You tell me where the logic is! Where's the logic? We shut down our stores, border stores, everything we need, and give the opportunity to go to a hairdresser on the other side of the border for two hours, to go to shops – furniture, technology, technology, everything that we have here is closed at the moment. That's very clever of the government, a really good move. We've proposed quite a few amendments. The professional services rejected them and assessed that we had interfered with the content of the law. At the same time, however, we see how many of your coalition amendments have entered the law without any difficulty, if you say so. In particular, such articles, which are inhuman, I think are also harmful. Harmful for the population, for those who are practically fair to disagree with this government. You know that. I'm talking about the 59th article, which I've heard something about that's changing, but still, if we just bring it down from 15,000 to 5,000, which is the basis here, we haven't solved absolutely nothing. Absolutely. You know, your campaign was very interesting. Your campaign, when you were in the election phase – and we also put this amendment on the table – that we will provide 500 euros each year for low-retirement pensioners. We've made this amendment, but unfortunately it's also practically exceeded this permit, the content, if you say so. The marriage was then rejected. Do you know what it says below? Warning: “As the left government is recycled in power with the supremacy of the party of Levi, the pensioners will not be given Christmas until further notice. That's your leaf. They won't be getting Christmas till later. Now it was a chance to give the pensioners a Christmas present, which is really enough to make it by the end of the month, if you say so. But you see this. It's an eclectic case. Now you had a chance to show it, because you helped everyone. But that's proof if one's spoken and the other's working. In that sense. He mentioned something about vaccines this morning. I didn't see anything in the marriage, in the sixth package, if anything changes slowly and there's something wrong with the law in this sense as well as with the vaccines. We've been here I've been waiting for some speeches on this. [[…]] I've also asked quite a few questions. But I got such answers that it's better not to tell them publicly here because they were really -- what do you care about, do whatever you want, deal with but I'm here to ask because people are asking me. [[…]] And if you don't give an answer, we just have to ask the Members. We have to ask. But we don't get any answers. So much for that. I've heard about some companies, I've already realized, even on TV they've already said that practically some companies will have to pay back money. Very interesting. This is Lunos, for example, to give you an immediate example – which has fallen into the difficulties that have developed, has employed people and has done everything and is still working and what needs to be done, but has not reached the parameters that you have asked for, so now it will also have to pay back 50,000 euros. That's what they said. I don't know if it's true. We'll see what happens. The most interesting thing is that Austria, you know, is making the biggest effort mainly and only in entrepreneurship. And it gives high compensation to the economy – and no bureaucratic obstacles! I've got a case of 50,000 euros myself, over the SID bank to another bank, waiting three months for the paperwork. We're very bad at this. Fair enough. There's something you need to do here. So you bragged about debirocratization! I hope that this debirocratization will come slowly. Yesterday, Beovic said — to me personally one shameful statement — that it was the people’s association that caused the loss of their jobs. Are you crazy? People lost their jobs because some people hung out. I think so! You know, I'm telling you, it's only because you practically blinded, stopped businesses, craftsmen, shops and life. That's why. And you know why you did it? I'll tell you the reason. Because you haven't stopped the spread of the pandemic in time, especially in those categories, in those nursing homes where the highest concentration of all of this is. Two thousand 200 people are in their homes. When the first epidemic was declared, when you spat so much on the previous government and then on Shartz, 74 died in nursing homes. There are 574 of them today. Now tell me how successful you were. There are 574 in nursing homes today. It's probably more than that today. For me, if you'll excuse me if I tell you about the incompetence and because you haven't acted in time, we now have an economy on our knees. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister has signed up for this. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Vice-President, for the words and thanks also for the explanation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, by which you have allowed me to discuss all the issues, even though as Minister of Finance and a representative of the Government, even if they are not directly related to the finances, and indirectly they are. I'd answer to Mr Bandelli, Ambassador Bandell. I replied to him yesterday or the day before yesterday on the Committee on Finance about who is allowed to go into trade in a neighbouring country. The one who has no store or pharmacy in the congregation that is a district congregation. And, of course, it is probably closer to getting medicines to a pharmacy in a neighbouring country than, for example, spending a lot of time, money and so on to go to the congregation in the country. And in two hours. Thus, there is now no question of opening up to some and allowing purchases abroad and so on. Above all, we have the social situation of this individual, who, for example, needs medicine and is closer to a pharmacy in a neighboring country than in a congregation in the country. That's all it's about, that's all it's about and no big purchases and so on in two hours and so on. You mentioned Christmas and how it's not in PKP6. Look, it's still PKP7, and I think it's 29. 12. Retires pension in December. So let's just wait a little longer. Let's wait a little longer on that, too. Even with those signs, how. However, we have already given those pensioners who are in the worst or worse social situation a certain amount of money according to the pension they have. I think it would be right, in my personal opinion, to do so even for Christmas or new year, at least for some. Let me also mention or give answers to some of the questions you asked earlier when you were defending the position of the parliamentary groups or representing the position of the parliamentary groups on tablet computers, and your Sab client proposes to purchase tablet computers and so on. This provision is already in law and also in the budgets, the 2020 budget balance, for 2021 and so on. This is how we cannot accept your valuable proposal because it already includes documents, both budgetary and PKP6. We are also thinking, of course, that I am in contact with the Minister of Infrastructure, about the question of the eligibility of the extension, mainly from the point of view that people are unable to operate or cannot move freely from the congregation to the congregation. So thank you for this suggestion, too, or this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u86	Just a second. Really. Yeah, what you told me, I'm happy. Thank you. I don't know why you haven't accepted the amendment about the vignette yet. You've also rejected it. But I'm interested in something else. I have a real question, Minister, which is what you've been talking about. Just one question. Can you tell me if the family dies in Nova Gorica, according to your household, the washing machine, can you find it in the old Gorica, elsewhere? Tell me. That's what it is now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u87	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. The next one is mag. Dejan Židan, prepare Mrs Violeta Tomić. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] How about just a moment, if [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u88	I don't want to disturb Mrs. Irgle or Mr. Badelli. I have a word, can I?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u89	Yeah. Please, if you'll excuse me. Here you go, mag. Thirsty.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u90	Then thank you very much. Dear Vice-President, Minister, distinguished Members, Members of Parliament, the other members of the House are warmly greeted! Four points, four facts I would like to say in today's debate. Some of you call this PKP6, I'll just say the crown of the 6th marriage. First of all: the fact is that we talk about this in order to help people, to help the economy, to help society as a whole because of the epidemic. I think there's a consensus here. And that we also help because of the failure of the rulings, where I think that consensus will be only on the middle and on the left of this House. I must say, today I have extremely bad feelings, Mr. Minister. The fact that you're coming to this Parliament before you get married, that you're already speaking to the government, yes, because we're coming with a new one, so seven. So before we get a six, crown six into parliament, you promise another seven. This means that your approach cannot be systematic, it cannot be analytical, that it is some kind of, in narrations I say, hashish, and often also happens that information in the government is different in the morning than in the evening of the same day. Now, why is this important, respected and respected? Legal instability is a serious threat in every country, and you're causing it. But all of this deepens the mistrust that is too present in our country. Lack of confidence is also a reason, perhaps because we do not control the epidemic at this time, because people simply do not trust what you say or say by what you do. We're here today at six, and we're talking about seven all the time. That's just terrible. Do you know what it feels like to be an opposition to us? That, in fact, more than an analytical, systematic approach, which is so much needed, is a collection of measures that you have, work, for the first time, of course, of some thinking you are – but I don't want to do anything wrong or say anything about it –; secondly, that it is probably the result of people who visit you, but you try to help them with some of your powers, but it is very far from a systematic approach; and thirdly, that you want to help your friends in some way – in the nicknames of the University of Jambrek. This, of course, does not solve the problems, it deepens the crisis in our country and this means a potentially irrational spending not only of millions, but also probably of billions. But those who have not been given to us, ladies and gentlemen of honor! All these billions that come with every crown law are the billions that we're going to have to one day, and we're going to have to return our children, maybe even our grandchildren someday. And each of these billions should be 100 percent rationally invested, but not just like that, somewhere. And once again, listen. Today, when we take six, we're talking about seven. That's unacceptable to me. Have you ever listened to the debate in the serious parliaments of neighbouring European countries? Have you ever listened to them talking in there? How they think about measures when they come, but come with a strong action that works. Not that we have a marriage before us and then we get letters from economists, where in their cases they explain to us how the law will not actually work – just like the guarantee scheme of the first CAP. And this first one was the most resourceful. You've actually had a very broad group, and there's been a lot of public debate, and you've even given us one chance. We have prepared a proposal and handed it over physically to your Prime Minister of the Government, but it has not been felt that this has been respected in any way and even less taken into account. Now for something. That's what I'm afraid of because you're doing it with billions that aren't yours. If I move on. I don't understand how you're not ashamed of being set up. How come you're not ashamed of the underdogs? What is it with you, in fact, that you are trying to change some of the rules of the school system by law that has to help people, the economy, the society, the institutions? I'm not saying that everything is as it is now, that it's good. I'm not really an expert here. But what does this have to do with crown six? Or another, which I fear even more, and we must be like the opposition, and I believe that those who have a voice of understanding in this strange coalition are very careful that you and the underlings want to change the foundations of our society. But the fact that we are going in a democratic direction is not really from God and democracy has never really been fully achieved. Every step we take is to fortify her, fight for her, or lose her. And with every setter who is also in this law, when he looks instead of respect for people, you want to bring in additional repression, you do something that is simply not worthy. It is clear that this is the way Parliamentary Law-Legal Service speaks to you, but it is not worthy. And there's something else on my mind that I need to tell you. Mr. Secretary, I never doubted your well-intentionedness. As far as I know you, you never lied to me, in your words I often also feel some basic primal honesty, even respect for us all who are in here. But there's something else I need to say. Do you remember last week when we witnessed the Prime Minister's replies to the parliamentary questions? Where he spoke again, let us now cooperate, cooperate, as I understood why he spoke. The pressure was immeasurable last week. Your epidemic got out of control, your economy broke. Of course, it's the most common thing, let's look for a broader consensus, by the way, let's share the guilt a little bit. But we were ready, we were fighting for a week. Only the Social Democrats made 15 proposals, along with the other opposition parties there were 50. But you know that not one of your Members and Members felt the need to speak to us and accept it. Not a single one! 15 we put in alone, 35 together. And there was even some optimism, because on Monday this impulse “let's work together” was so strongly emphasized, and again it was just cynical words. Today, again, at ten o'clock, Mr Minister, not from your mouth, but from your President's mouth, "let us work together." I have to say that now it's all a little sad and funny. Cooperation always shows one who is stronger, always taking the first step. Not words, words are too much, words deceive, words cause mistrust, steps need to be taken. Today, some of these plant species that we will try to eliminate are extremely important. First time. This system, in pronunciations, your universities, your friend's university under special rules. Here's your chance to move it away. The amendment's been tabled. Another time. Today, too, you have the opportunity to accept our amendment and together – together, I am giving you a hand in cooperation, together – we are talking to our citizens and citizens: be careful, wear masks, physical distances, do everything to ensure that the disease does not spread. I am really ready to do this with you, but not in a way that you will today accept additional threats to our citizens. That's wrong. Both of you can't do it at the same time. You can't build trust at the same time and threaten people. Mr. Secretary, you have a chance today. If you accept two amendments that are so important, that is, the unprivileged position of your friends' universities, not an additional threat to the citizens, but an example and an offer of time, you will experience, on my part, that I will not oppose your marriage. There's only two things you need to do. Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u91	Thank you very much for your discussion. We're moving on. The following is Mrs Violeta Tomić, Mr Marijan Pojbič being prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u92	Thank you for your word, Madam President. As my predecessor has already mentioned, in PKP6, we have one billion of our money on the table. Ours, which we don't have, but we'll be in charge of it, and that money will be returned to us by the craftsmen, our children and our grandchildren. Therefore, your responsibility before Slovenia and your descendants is enormous. And it's not the money of the coalition, it's not the money of the SDS, it's not the money of Janez Janša, it's the money of us, all citizens and citizens. Therefore, it is unacceptable to share the money so arbitrarily in essence with companies close to the SDS party. You're calling for help from the economy. Every time you reject, from the first to the sixth PKP, the opposition's amendment, which speaks, retains jobs until one company receives assistance from the country, is not to fire this worker for three months after that. Not once have you accepted this amendment and, while receiving help, very high aid, many workers remain on the road. It's completely incomprehensible, that's, I don't know how you don't take it, because I really can't understand it. On the other hand, John Janša stood here and said: “We are open to cooperation; if you have any good suggestions, just give them to us.” [[Laughing in the hall]] Hey, you're making a fool out of us! Not just us sitting here, really. From the citizens. As we suggested, colleagues said earlier, 240 amendments were made by the opposition, only in the PKP6 50 – none of them were worth considering, because you just press the “against” button. Some, however, were rejected as inadmissible. Although the coalition has tabled 105 amendments to its own law. What kind of law is it that you have to amend it for each article? And it's totally distasteful to listen to members of the coalition who all the while thank the merchants, traders, health workers, workers, and they wouldn't be paid for it. Thanks, you know, nothing goes in the pot. Health workers employed in DSD; in short, we proposed 85 per cent of the untaxed allowance. The amendment was rejected. Knowing that the second wave of the epidemic has found you completely unprepared and that you have neither physically nor humanly strengthened the health sector. In short, health workers burn out and, of course, endanger their health and the health of their families. Let me read to you; Kacin speaks one way, your government spokesman, and young doctors have said that there is a completely different situation, as Kacin explains: "The proportions in hospitals and inadvertent clinics are unsustainable. The hospitalisation criteria shall be increased from day to day. Many patients who really need hospital treatment are sent home with instructions on how to act if the situation gets worse. The paramedics are moving patients from one region to another and looking for the last beds available. At the same time, entire regions remain in the middle of the night without ambulances and ambulances.” Young doctors said. And then yesterday, NIJ found out – I mean, I'm sorry, really, Minister. We have known each other for a while and we understand each other quite well, but this, constitutional right to health, human rights, and you would therefore sanction those who express opposition to this government. I mean, that's totally unacceptable! Yesterday, NIJS revealed what the main source of infection was. Yeah, well, I think you know that. And I really think you're saying different than what's true — I don't know, it's really bad karma. In short, NIJZ said over the past week, 900,000 working residents, 70 percent of whom are still working. But the government's finger points around who's to blame. Kacin counted Ljubljana's registrations on the Coast and Šmarna Gora, young people were guilty in the summers, Beović blamed the loss of jobs on private associations, which were in three percent of the sources. In short, why not punish employers who demand that employees continue to work even though they may be sick or infected? Because the machine has to work. In short, look. It's a matter of trust, measures are as successful as the people trust you. And they can't trust you if you give 10,000 or 15,000 tickets, if you see, I don't know, Kacina, who walks without a mask around, Dr. Kreka, who wears it under her chin, Minister Logar, who goes by waiting for test results, probably not too healthy, which is in the gallery, Mr. Koritnik goes to the pedicure and so on. I think so! Citizens get the feeling that they are actually first- and second-class citizens. But those who punish everyone can do what they want. In short, while many entrepreneurs have already been told that small and micro enterprises have been abandoned, while many entrepreneurs take loans to keep some employees when they take loans, so that they can pay rent, and unfortunately many come into such severe difficulties that they take their lives – we know how many suicides were at that time – the government cynically equates religious employees with espies. I think so! It gives them €700 per month of universal income, which will cost us 1.9 million in three months. We were hoping this would be withdrawn, so you spoke, but apparently someone else is over this government that decides for you. And that's how you finance your ideological supporters or electoral bodies. Everyone else, we mentioned the meeting industry earlier and the performances can't work, but it doesn't matter. And we mentioned the New University, which will annually receive two million of our money, total money, even though it does not meet the required standards. But this is a college that's close to SDS. And it's about grading knowledge. The university is supposed to cover four areas and, of course, the New University does not. It's legalized corruption. In short, Janez Janša gives us every ten years when he comes to power, owes us, strengthens his electoral body, rewards them, and then we swim for ten years in that clone we came to. Through his media, he discredits all political opponents. And that's why Slovenia can't actually move anywhere. In the end, I'm going to touch these suckers, who are the worst of them all, and these are new offences, or fines, there's 10,000 euros. And me – I mean, it is quite obvious that this is primarily an attempt to criminalise any protest against the authoritarian government of Janez Janša. We know that there was no infection there, everyone has security distances and masks and it's simply that you don't want to and you're afraid of any protest against government policy because most citizens oppose that policy. This is the case in public opinion and their number is increasing. That is why the government is trying to prevent any protest in any way, as it knows that most are looking forward to the end of the SDS government. In short, during the insult of political opponents and social minorities, she refers to freedom of speech and, on behalf of freedom of speech, your media spits at everyone who doesn't like it, but here only criticism would be sanctioned by as much as EUR 10,000. In short, you know well that no one can pay for such a dragon's punishment. And what will happen to those who will not pay the penalty? Are you going to rent them out of the apartments? You're going to lock them up? What are you gonna do? Let us remember what it would be like if, when John was in prison, your supporters protested in front of the courts and put pressure on the judges if they came with water cannons and blew them off the sidewalk or gave everyone 10,000 euros in fines. You know, there's no epidemic and there can't be some excuse to increase the repression. So you know, I've already compared this law to the government of Ceausescu in Romania. And you know exactly how he ended up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Replica first, Mr. Ferrjan. Maybe if we could all calm down a little bit earlier in the hall. First, he's got a replica of Mr. Ferjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u94	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. I would only say to Mrs Violeti Tomić that the difference is probably why there were no water cannons when there was a protest against an unjust and unconstitutional judgment before the Supreme Court, in that then the protesters were not or were not throwing a firecracker under the police and so on. What we have seen — today we live in the 21st century — is what anyone with a phone can record and publish — what happened there. That's the key difference. Not to be too long, much has been said on some of the working bodies of this National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u95	Thank you very much. There's also Mrs. Boxer's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u96	Thank you. Besides, I'd like to say what my predecessor said, but he's already done the job. Thanks, buddy. We protested peacefully, politely, disciplinedly. We have protested against an unconstitutional, illegal accusation that our President has been imprisoned and there has been no incident. Here, and in these protests, a police officer was wounded, a cameraman was wounded, property was damaged. That's an essential difference. Of course, it's also a lie that it's one college in terms of accreditation. Accreditation is an evaluation and it's 14 colleges that have a problem because of this crisis that has occurred. These are small colleges. It took her 60 years to make the fifth chair in addition to the four capitals. 60 years! Well, today is a different time, but there are other conditions, and for these colleges it's a problem. There are 14 of them, including the Faculty of Physiotherapy, and we urgently need physiotherapists in addition to another medical staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I would only warn all the debaters that the replica is intended to explain what you were not aware of when you were discussing. Part of your replica, Mrs. Boxer, it wasn't, but I didn't interrupt you because I was right. Let this warning continue. Now, Mr. Minister has made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, I have some claims to answer. For the first time, I would like to say that the claim that basic income is given to religious employees is not accurate. If we look at the report of the Committee on Finance and look at page 67, honourable Member, then we see section Provisional measures for religious servants. Article 114, line 115, line 116, line 117, line 118. I'm sorry, but your claim, at least on this and I think any other claims were incorrect. [[…]] I'm just looking at 67 pages here, so I think it's right that we're talking about accurate data here. Once again very briefly. We are not talking here about banning mergers or anything, bringing people together as such, but we are talking about imposing penalties, not of €15 000, that is the maximum penalty, but of the thousands of 500 to 15 000 who publicly call for violations of regulations or regulations. These regulations are designed to limit the spread of communicable diseases. The spread of infectious diseases among people and protect the healthy. We protect healthy and protect human health in accordance with the constitutional provision of Article 72 and in accordance with human rights. However, I agree with you — and we are aware of this — with both speakers now the last — that billions are not ours and that we will use them in some way responsibly. That is also why we look at every euro when we owe ourselves. We see that we owe ourselves at the most favourable interest rates, that we owe ourselves so that the effects of this debt will be as low as possible and that we will therefore have as little debt or debt costs as possible. And we're really aware of that. This is also acknowledged by some other international experts and recognised – recognised statistics. And if you look at the debt costs, then the debt costs go down. That's the interest payment. They are significantly falling from year to year statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Violeta Tomic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u100	I'll replicate all three replicas. Minister. He remained an essential article that equates religious servants with cultural workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u101	Wait a minute, Mrs. Tomic. You can only replicate to the minister who discussed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u102	Of course, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u103	Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u104	Yes, Mr Ferrjan has already abused the replica because I did not mention it in my debate and I would just like to say that you say you are protecting people's health, Minister. The Internet call does not endanger people's health, and I believe that nowhere has it been proven that the virus would spread by clicking or sharing. Yes, the Internet virus, but not the covida virus, so please, let's be correct. On November 5th, throwing a firecracker, which I must say, were people that Friday's protestors didn't know. Whoever sent them, the research, the independent, will find out. And when you calmly and politely demonstrated before the courts, respected members of the SDS, it was collateral damage just to beat the bastard Tončko, the deceased who died last month because he said Janez Janša was a thief.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Yes, Mrs Škrnjar, I will also warn Mrs Tomić. If you'll excuse me. Let us all focus on replicas to explain how you were not understood in your discussions. If we continue with such replicas, I will have to stop you during the implementation, and let's all stick to one rule. Here we go, Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor and the mags are being prepared. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First, I must say that I must respond to the debate of my colleague Tomic because I am in the debate, I have this right, or Left. Today, we did not hear anything from them except demagogism, ideology, smooching, and instigating and lying. This is a left-wing strategy that I won't waste my time on because it's a shame. Because it is simply not a political factor that could in one way or another decide how this country works. All she can do is hurt her, and that's what she does. And that's what most citizens and citizens know. This will also be clearly demonstrated in the elections. Trust me. They don't like extremists anywhere. And the Left is a pure extremist in this national council. A pure leftist extremist. And that concludes with Levi. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I expected that there would be a great deal of agreement on this debate and on this law that we are talking about today. A great deal of consensus because right now we need solutions. Employees or on hold, businesses, craftsmen and everyone, all other systems in this epidemic need solutions. And we have adopted five, now we are adopting the Sixth Anti-Corron Act, which is helping all groups, all subgroups, all generations in our society and our country. We are doing this; we are doing this with a goal, it is done by a coalition, it is not done by any individual party. However, those who had this opportunity, when the rifle was most important, thrown into the corn, would like to be the most important, important, and helpful advice on how to react in such circumstances. I can't get past the certain things I heard here today. Above all, I have to respond in two sentences to the debate in LMŠ, which I have heard, among other things, that the difference between the Government and the LMŠ client, as Mr Golubović has announced, is not a waste of my time because I think it is a waste. However, I will say the following, which is important, but the difference between the Government and the LMŠ party is that this government and this coalition are working. Working night and day, solving people's problems. He can never save everything, but he works. While the LMŠ party threw the rifle into the corn when it was the hardest. And the Left. The LMŠ and the Left party are guilty of the situation as it happened. These governments, like today, wouldn't be if they weren't. And these two parties have to take responsibility, not send the brains to us who work night and day to help people and all those groups that I have just talked about. We are still aware that we need to stick together, that we need to help each other, and that is why I started this debate in this way. They can't be more important than the goals we have to pursue than the problems we have in the country we have; they can't be more important than the epidemic that we haven't invented; none of us sitting here is a citizen and a citizen of our country. This problem has a whole Europe, almost three quarters of the world, but we are solving it in given circumstances, as far as possible. We're trying. We will never be able to do all things as people expect us to do, but it is crucial and important that we know what we want and that we know that we need to protect people's health in the first place. Then I heard from one LMŠ debater, who said, among other things, that parents who have no place to give children when they have to learn at home and so on are in distress. Of course they are! We are all aware of this here, and there is none if any government were here in the National Assembly, so in Slovenia, at this point – what do you think would be the choice? [[…]] Look at the neighbouring countries. Each government should start to restrict human association and everything that is involved. Whether this is right or wrong, in these circumstances this is the only solution. We must in any way and if we place on the scale of human education and on the other hand human health, tell me what is most important in these circumstances. [[…]] Tell me what. If you ask your family when you have a sick child or a very sick child, what is prepared by any family, regardless of the political color, to do for your child — anything that is possible! So for me, for all the families in this society, all the political options are key and most important to human health. And we need to make sure that everything at this point is at our disposal to protect that the hospital doesn't fall apart from the stitches, that what we're about to do is not happening to us, despite the fact that this government has been doing all six, seven months a day. Night and day. And this coalition, of course. And it wasn't demagogic and it wasn't exclusive, it was trying to do everything possible to help people, like I said, to all groups, to all generations. And also through PK1, 2, 3, 4, 5 to this point helped, proven to help. People don't forget that. The first government in the history of Slovenia, which at some point was also prepared to help virtually all vulnerable groups in such circumstances. It is never possible to help everyone as much as possible because we, too, have the resources we have in the budget, we can borrow so much and so much and the facts are clear. We must act in this context and this government is working in this context, this coalition is working in this context. What is this PKP6 doing? We are all aware that the economy is crucial. If we keep the economy and jobs alive, we can talk about the social state. We can talk about everything that comes after it, but first we need to be able to create and pay debts and everything that goes with it. All of us — at least in the government, the government coalition — are aware of this. And we work this way and work primarily for the benefit of and for the benefit of everyone and everyone, but by no means separate people from the first-class, second-class, privileged, unprivileged, to the political red, green, yellow, whatever you think, but for all who live and who are citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is the goal of this government through this legislation. I will not repeat this because Mr Minister has said today, and the President of the Government, Mr Janez Janša, is absolutely all that was necessary. He said what objectives we are pursuing, what is crucial to what we must pursue, and he also said the following – which today was a lot of resentment on some sides, because the government, which is also thinking a step further – how to react also after this crisis, and therefore was forecast by the KPC7. Some of you have been explaining this to yourself and trying to abuse this story. It was very clear what it was intended for, what it was for, and which direction it was for; to awaken the economy, we are now living it, and then we must awaken it. This is a common goal; it should be the common goal of all political options, not demagogy, but big words, and especially scribbling. Hustling! That's the worst thing you can do. Today I would not be discussed in this law on any penalties if the political parties did not scold, rode by bicycles, without masks, MPs and members within the group. If it wasn't for throwing dice at the police and all that stuff I heard today, it wouldn't have happened. But someone is trying to get such a low profile statement that he claims that someone who has been so low profile with the police has destroyed Ljubljana that it is someone who has fallen out of the air or who doesn't know where, look, a lie from a lie, a lie from a cup. We have had a great opportunity now to see what Mr Krek was doing and harassing. Who is this man? He's always been everywhere. Who's funding him? Mr Čordić, if I am not mistaken, if this last name is correct – who is financing it? This nation that works for him. Slovenian people who work for a minimum wage, Slovenian pensioners who receive pensions of 400, 500, 600 euros – for such people who then throw, I don't know what they do, they harass people, they harass people on the street, they can't go from A to B. So they destroy Ljubljana. Ljubljana is ours. We finance it together; we, who create it. I have also worked many, many years in the real sector: night, Sunday, holiday and so on. Those who have not put up with this, be silent because you do not know how to fight in life and how to create. But I didn't want to say this, please, then at least don't talk nonsense, lies, deception, don't push, don't push, don't be corrupt. You can't make political points at the expense of this epidemic. This is unacceptable, it is extremely inappropriate and rude, no matter what political option it is, which party it is, because it is unacceptable. In the coalition, I must say, I can commend all the parties operating in the coalition very, very creatively, even sometimes in some matters, we need to formulate positions that are our common ground, and we do not agree on any matter immediately. But they work creatively, responsibly and primarily for the benefit of our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and do not make a difference between people. That's why I don't want to say what they have. Thank God, people will be long-term, and they're proud of them now. Most people support this coalition and do not support what I have heard from the Left. They're flossules, they're lies, they're deceptions and they're manipulations. This is the only thing left to maintain at the political level of the Left, which has, since its accession to the National Assembly, shown which party is inappropriate because it is damaging the development of this country and its future. This can't be happening, I'm sure people will be punishing it in the next election. That is why I am proud of all those who have prepared this law, the Government and also all Members and Members, who today will also support this sixth anti-Korona law because it is for the people. Not one, not the other, but the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that, I trust this government, I trust this coalition. We are confident that we will bring this ship by the time the new elections are held. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Reploco has Mrs. Violeta Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u108	Thank you. Mr Pojibič has major problems with mathematics. 200,000 SDS voters are not the majority. What's a million 800 doing? This government is opposed to Janez Janša! Second thing. You say, we work night and day, some of them, of course, have made a lot of money at that time. I would like to know who will be responsible for the tragic balance, because everyone else who died after the fellow, Mr Pojbič, was from the home of the elderly. We have 19,000 people in the nursing home, and 5 thousand 460 of them have been infected, which is 30 percent of all the elderly, you know. And when you say you want to protect people first, protect the health of people who are constitutional rights, of course we have heard many times today, but protect where infections spread. Just a minute. You say triage patients. It is necessary to protect people here, because it says here by Mrs Renata Salecl, a philosopher, that ideas are emerging, that young people should be saved first, because they have a greater chance of survival to give priority to workers working for a society of emergency professions, or that they should decide on who to give priority to. Please, there's a really big moral question and an ethical question about how you're going to save lives. Just that, more experts remind us of the over-focused attention in covid, as they identify some countries with which you obviously do not communicate, that statistics for each hospitalised patient with covid-19 have remained untreated by 28 non-visible patients. And this is where we lose our lives. Protect them, please, but not to give us implants in anti-Korona packages.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mag. Marko Pogačnik has the floor, Mr Vojko Starović is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u110	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, good-bye! Once again we could come to the realization that covid-19 is not only a health hazard, but that covid-19 is also a danger to the economy, the economy and not least jobs. The government of Janez Janša has already prepared the 6th antikron package; the 6th antikron package brings the key issues mainly to those most vulnerable groups that covid-19 most affected. I am convinced that all the measures taken and proposed by the Government are aimed at bridging the spread of the virus and, of course, at helping people and the economy. The key solutions provided for in package six are to extend the remuneration for the period of waiting for work, to postpone payment of liabilities from bank loans for a further 12 months, to financial compensation for farmers due to the loss of income. One of the key issues, however, is that partial coverage of fixed costs to the most affected companies. Warm meal for students and students from socially disadvantaged families during distance training, financing of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security. Kind of stuff. The Committee itself, the parent working body, the Committee on Finance has made some adjustments with the amendments, certain changes that I believe are still improving the package, by reducing the threshold or falling revenue for companies which will then be eligible for fixed costs from 40 per cent to 30 per cent. that there will be subsidised waiting for work of 100 per cent to be resolved here mainly by small and medium-sized enterprises. I'm sure such a package is right to go in the right direction. I would say once again, here has been proven that the Government is aware of its responsibilities and that it is aware, I would say what measures today must be taken at this time. To all those who dispute these packages and that the Government has done nothing, you could only read a few numbers that all of these packages were highly social-oriented and very helpful to the economy. For the main objective of all these measures is to maintain a functioning economy, to keep businesses safe, because without businesses we cannot have jobs either. By 19 November, due to established packages – anti-coron packages, from one to five – paid for salaries of more than EUR 300 million, the payment of contributions for all social insurance of 124 million, the exemption of contributions to pension and disability insurance of more than EUR 430 million, the exceptional support in the form of basic income of more than €82 million, the single solidarity allowance for pensioners of more than €66 million, the hazard allowance and special burdens during the epidemic – more than EUR 200 million. Now these numbers speak their own and I think that the numbers do not lie and that all those lies, deceptions that were by opposition Members and Members in relation to not helping people not to help the economy, not to take care of those who are too burdened at the time of covid-19. I think these numbers speak for themselves and these numbers say that they help people. I really don't understand, or perhaps the opposition doesn't understand, and here, in particular, is that part of the difference between the government of Janez Janša and this coalition and the opposition that this government understands the situation. Today, I would say, you're making fun of matters, the Prime Minister of the Government has announced that this government has announced that the coalition MPs are already predicting package seven. Of course he is! And that is also true, because we are solving problems in a timely manner and we are currently solving problems and we are aware of what measures need to be taken at a given time. This virus has not stopped, this virus is spreading, from day to day we have a number of infections that are worrying, Europe is among the most affected parts of the world and here, I would say, we cannot move. And the right thing to do is to accept package seven. The measures should be adapted across the board. I am convinced that 80% of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia respect and respect the Government's actions. But that's not enough to contain covid-19. Covid-19 doesn't choose. No choice between the opposition, no choice between coalitions, no choice between left and right. Here you need to shrink the species and in particular do everything to stop this covid-19. This government has proved that it can take care of the most vulnerable groups even at the most difficult times, that there has been an increase in pensions here, that pensioners have been provided with extraordinary payments, those with the lowest pensions, to take care of the economy here, to take care of the employees. Finally, the government's actions are said to be appropriate, and the Moodys rating agency's report, which increased Slovenia's rating by one degree and thus, I would also say, expressed a positive signal to all investors that Slovenia is a credible country. Because the fact is, when the covid is defeated, we will only have to deal with all the consequences that covid-19 will leave behind or leave behind. I am sure that we should talk about the solutions, about the problems that Slovenia actually has, but not, I would say, attacking who is responsible for what action here. In fact, these attacks are mainly politicized. [[…]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, Comrade Koprivc, who you're talking to in the middle of the day, you're the one who was waving a mask on his finger here in May and calling on the president of the National Assembly to stop this masquerade. Comrade Koprivc, I think you're among the last in this national council when you can tell someone this. The fact is that maybe we should talk about other things today; look ahead. We know that the health systems are breaking through the stitches, that the employees are over-burdened, but no one is concerned that we today have about a thousand people in the Department of Unemployment in the healthcare profession who do not want to help, to work. These are problems and I think we need to think in this direction too, so at this point I would like to thank mainly health workers, those who operate in nursing homes and especially those who have decided to go to the field and help in this crisis situation. But thank you to those who, above all, respect the measures that are prescribed. Colleague Tomić – this hall has left – and I think she mentioned the protests, the protests in front of the courts that took place View colleague Tomić, you can't protest and the hooligans can't compare in November with the protests before the court. [[…]] Last but not least, the protests before our President's court for protection were all reported in accordance with the law, and they were all reported. For this reason, and I would also say that the judgment at the end as it was proved that all these protests were more than justifiable. [[…]] Respected opposition, I think the situation is too serious to be accused here in the long run, but not looking for a solution. I am sure that all these measures are good, perhaps some do not take them as they initially imagined, but the goal is, to help people, to help the economy and to stop the virus.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u111	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr Vojko Starović, prepare Mr Igor Pecek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Today we also face bets more or less all day; one left, right coalition, opposition and so on, but let us listen to something to do! You admit there are more truths, there is more than one truth. As Democrats, we should know that no one owns all the truth, but we share it, and because this truth is actually distributed, only dialogue can lead to it, said Albert Camus, one of the greatest thinkers of the last century. So let's be aware that the truth is not a fact, the truth is what we think about the facts. Look at the dictionary, and it writes what is supposed to be true and one of the greatest thinkers and minds of all time Albert Einstein said: “How many observers, so many truths.” I'm the only one who doesn't believe in something, so forgive me for talking to you today that only one group of people can be right, and the other group can't. One group is right, knows everything, knows everything, the other, but the opposition is wrong, or the other way around. This has been happening to us for many years, and that's bad. Instead of establishing dialogue and finding good solutions here, hundreds of amendments, as we have seen, have already been given — none have been taken into account. And that's true. You're asking us to cooperate, and you don't want us to cooperate. You also tell us sometimes that I say that we have not adopted the agreements offered to us by Mr Janš in the adoption of laws and other acts during this period from 2020 to 2022. But that's also where it's written. Why? When we look at this agreement, it's impossible. To commit ourselves not to comment at the time of the adoption of the law until the end of the coordination meeting of these groups. We didn't even expand in any way outside the parliamentary group. So we could just talk, the five of us from the SAB, about what is being proposed, we should not have any professional assistance or anything else. A few things like this are in there when it was unacceptable for us. But it is normal for different ideas to meet here, in our Parliament, to say that there are different experiences, different views, different knowledge and to form a common solution. But no. When it's obvious to us, all the signs are here that we failed with this fellow-19 in this second step. We failed because we're almost champions in the world. But this is our common burden that will strike us all. From the fact that they have not accepted it in time, and that we will strike at how corrupt they are, this government and everyone in it together — I would not fully agree. You wouldn't. They try, they do, but why don't you listen to the others here. We've given a lot of advice to facilitate, simplify procedures and to come up with better solutions. Now we must be aware of what is happening to us right now. As has already been said, there will be no reflection this year. This means an even deeper decline in growth, an even deeper decline, even greater to work. We're also saving with this package, and I'll tell you that we're also saving a clinically dead company. This is happening to us, and we are not saving one sector at all – I always say cultural people and civil society, which is actually the basis of the creation of this Slovenia, as we are, and of this constitution and so on. I don't think that's right. And about when I'm talking about second-raters. We don't really respect people, we don't trust them. We don't pay attention, we don't call them for help. Every single one when we look at it. What we reject is opposition and what comes from the base, but the undeniable fact is that this crisis is also controlled from the bottom up, not from the top down. And the government – I do not agree with the claim that it is good to share. He's sharing what we're increasing public debt for. Gross public debt is increasing in Slovenia, I say again. If we didn't increase this debt in some years unwisely, really unreasonablely, because because of 1995 we had under 5 billion debt, then we grew to 2000 to 10 billion; 2005 we grew to 40 billion in the Janša government. [[…]] And we've been carrying this 40 billion gross external debt all these years. Now we're gonna make it bigger. Now we're gonna make it bigger. Let us be all, and on the left and on the right and on the upper and lower, moderate in how much we owe ourselves. I'm just looking at it as an economist so a few debts can bury us. Let's not get too carried away because this resistance to economic growth is not going to happen. Let's be very careful and not cheer, not share money where it's not needed. Where necessary, I agree, we will give; if we have economic growth because of this, all of this will be covered, that is fine. Only signs and directions in this direction, some exit strategies I do not see in all the preparation of these laws. I really can't see. Output strategies, how we will come out of this, from this additional debt. We have to have this in front of us. Seriously, this isn't a joke. We're in danger of our sovereignty. Because the last time we were in a crisis, when we went into bigger debt when we had to be in debt – you know what we had to sell, what we had to do. That's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The replica has a mag. Mushroom, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u114	Madam President, thank you for the floor. But now I had to react, because, indeed, what colleague Starović is doing now in the last week of the National Assembly, I think it's really misleading. See, colleague Starović, you are talking about the debt and the economy and the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia. But you can, Sir Starović, tell me what the government has to do with Janez Janša's personal credit. What does the government of Janez Janša have to do with your company's credit? Nothing. And you're charging these 40 billion, the debt of all citizens and citizens, and the republics of the economy, I'd say, over the last two months. Dear Members and Members, Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, those who ever follow! Slovenia was in charge of 7.68 billion euros with the first Janshea government. At the end of the term of office of the first Janša government 2008, however, the country's debt was 8 billion 28. This means, for one 600 million euros, the state was in charge during the first Janshea government. The governments then, your current presidents, went there: 25 billion and 30 billion. Don't fool around. You really need to stop this debt and who's in charge of this country. At the very least, it was the first government of Janez Janša that commissioned the state of Slovenia. No, she was, she was, she was the first. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u115	Mr. Pogačnik, I have to interrupt you here because I warned you earlier, Mr. Pogačnik, if you'll excuse me. [[Keep talking.]] I'm Mr. Pogačnik, if you don't mind. [[…]] Before you were in the gym, we had a couple of replicas that weren't there. And I listened very carefully to your debate. You didn't talk about borrowing a country from years ago, so that's not a replica that comes up in your debate. I warned Mrs. Škrnjar earlier, I warned Mrs. Tomić and I am at all the warnings Can I please have some peace? [[…]] Let's act like gentlemen and ladies, please, no. On previous warnings, Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, you were not in the hall to be explained. I warned the three Members that they had replicated that they had exceeded the contents of the replica. That's when I announced that when the next debater exceeded the contents of the replica, I would break it. I did not interrupt Mrs Škrynjar, who has overstepped her gravely, I did not interrupt Mrs Tomić, but now I have interrupted the mag. I'm asking you to follow all the same rules. But I left you half the time of your replica to tell you what you had, and then I figured it was enough. Mr. Starovic, there's no replica to the replica. Mrs. Anya Bah Žibert, but you have procedural procedures, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u116	Respected! You said I wasn't in the hall. But you cannot conclude from this that I have not listened, and I ask you first to apologize to me for this, because all Members of Parliament can meet from their offices and therefore I ask you to apologize to me, that is the first. And then there's the next one. Who, then, can answer when it comes to inaccuracies, about the government that we have composed, and who can be responsible for it at all? Can anyone answer if my government is mentioned?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u117	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u118	And I can't talk about it, in your opinion, I can't. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u119	Your procedural proposal is?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u120	Listen, let me speak!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u121	Give me a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u122	It's not over yet. President, now calm down. It's not over yet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u123	Please, if you have any respect for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u124	My procedural proposal is that you conduct the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. A replica is if someone is misunderstood – is that right? — and if so, it follows absolutely that it was not properly understood. The fact is, Mr Starović obviously does not understand the matter and needed to replicate it on behalf of the government we led. Otherwise, we can no longer talk about the past – according to you. Because it is no longer possible to give replicas. But that's not how it works!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u125	Mrs Anja Bah Žibert, the matter is quite simple, and I will explain to you now, and I believe that as a long-standing Member I should know this. It is clear to me that you were able to follow the debate from your office, so I do not want to apologize to you, nor does the Institute of Rules of Procedure justify it, so that this part of your procedural proposal did not comply with the business rules applicable to the procedural proposal. If we move on. Replica, I will read to you, “Every debater has the right to reply to the debate of another debater, this is a replica as far as this debate relates to his debate, if he thinks that his debate was misunderstood”. I believe that you listened carefully to your fellow Member in the debate from the office and Mr Pogačnik did not talk about the indebtedness of the country from years ago, which Mr Starović pointed out in his debate. That's why my warning to Mr. Pogačnik was completely in place. But it is simply a matter of saving by applying for a debate. This is an option you have all day long and if you estimate that which discussions are incorrect, you can answer them in the context of discussions, not in the context of replicas. Now, if you'll excuse me, let's end this circus and proceed with the debate. Mr. Igor Caver has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u126	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We're talking about the sixth antikoronic package. The fact is that they are intertwined and complementary, you say so yourself, that they are adapting to the current situation. But that is why many are vague and incomprehensible to those who practice them, and even more so to those who need them most. I will not state the facts that give me such an explanation. I just got one question today about the rent. I simply cannot get rid of the feeling that the measures are being prepared without a real currency; first the causes and then the consequences of the measure in question. I am of the opinion that an impact assessment is needed before the action is taken, and then a measure is implemented. It is urgent to check what these consequences will be, and to anticipate them, to reconcile them with those most affected or most affected. Otherwise, every so long, you really remind us that together we need to solve this crisis that we are in. I absolutely agree with that. It's a serious matter. But on the other hand, sometimes I really don't know if it's a mockery or not, as one of the previous debates said. In fact, you can't accept any of our additions. You, Mr Minister, are commenting on this, yes, perhaps this is one of the solutions, but we have decided differently, but perhaps in the future we will change that. But someone who thinks otherwise or has a different proposal, you can't just by default, as we like to say, have the wrong idea that his proposal is wrong, but I'm not going to say that you think he's an opponent, that's not. I really don't. However, I personally believe that most of the measures envisaged in the proposed law are prepared for the right purpose. At the same time, I have opinions and it is more important or important that they do not follow enough in certain parts, but that they are underfocused on the key objective that we want to pursue or that is intended to resolve this difficult situation in which we are. Firstly, these are the problems of health workers – here I am thinking mainly of those who work continuously or occasionally with covid patients – and secondly, the difficult liquidity situation of micro, small or medium-sized enterprises, especially in the service activity that I think we have taken too late. Moreover, I cannot go beyond those things that absolutely do not solve this situation, in which we are and are caused by co-vid and are not even part of a proposal called “intervention measures” and three pickets in its head. One of the key concerns of economists is that measures are taken in many ways to surprise them over and over again and at the same time prevent them from being properly prepared for them. The second point is that they are under-selective. What do I think here? For example, for craftsmen such as hairdressers, shoedressers, tailors, jewelers and the like who had to close business premises on the basis of a government measure, there is no evidence that they constitute a serious source of possible infections as long as they respect all measures. On the other hand, I find it equally difficult to understand the prohibition of the sale of non-food products in shopping centres, which mainly hand over foodstuffs. I don't understand this, because after all, customers go to these stores and wait outside the stores like they do in the post office. The proposal in the basic solutions follows previous measures and focuses largely on mitigating the consequences of the crisis by subsidising part of the fiscal costs incurred by businesses and entrepreneurs, and to a lesser extent on the effect of mitigating the effects of direct income losses and improving the liquidity situation of enterprises. These measures have not yet been brought to life, alone or confirmed that the solution was inadequate. It is true that you are simplifying it a little now, but I hope that in the future its effect will be significantly better than it was before. The fact is that liquidity problems will not be solved at the first day of the end of the epidemic, but it will take time for businesses and entrepreneurs to return to normal frameworks. I am not sure of your statement, Mr Minister, that companies in the service business are easier to resolve than companies in the production of activities. The biggest problem that companies have in service activities is the staff, because they are also key, and the staff also represent the majority of the costs. At this time, however, the cost structure has changed significantly in service activities. We are no longer talking about 12, 15 per cent of fixed costs; companies had to turn around differently. If I just take it as an example of food-delivery services. The export costs alone represent 30 per cent of the cost in the price calculation, and companies provide this service for only one reason and only one reason to retain their employees because they are aware that the employees are key to their ability to carry out this service or activity. Covering the work of fixed costs or loss in higher income falls is certainly a step in the right direction, in my opinion, but I certainly think that the 40 percent you set at the beginning – I welcome the reduction to 30 – but in my opinion the threshold is still too high. I don't understand the direct correlation between fixed costs and revenues. To some extent already, but for this, to cover fixed costs, it is first of all an important scale. Unfortunately, with incomes falling, fixed costs remain in the majority, in many cases almost at the same level. Another aspect we follow too slowly is the effectiveness and speed of the aid given. Entrepreneurs need help right away, not in two months, three months. They already have no liquidity assets, they are afraid to rent, some can't even rent them, because they are dealing with a loss or maybe they haven't settled — not because of speculation — all obligations to the state. The fact is that if I take only the guest sector, where 40,000 people are employed, the economy is one of the most affected sectors at all. Most of them are on the brink of existence. They won't be working for more than five months this year. Because entrepreneurs in this segment had to close their trades, they in some way made it possible to operate in another part of the economy. To limit the spread of the virus in order to prevent a breakdown of the health system. And here the country's assistance to these companies should indeed be possible in the form that we have proposed in one amendment or, as colleague Paulič explained in one of his discussions in response to your comment, Mr Minister, explained. What I miss most personally in the proposal, and then I finish – solving liquidity problems, I mentioned. I believe that raising the amount of loans and simplifying the terms of the guarantee scheme should be agreed with the SID Bank. Although I have no idea, I have to be honest with you about how to convince the SID bank of this, but I think it's necessary. Commercial banks will not want to do this work with the private sector. That's what I'm hoping you'll see through, or you'll figure it out. As far as compensation for part-time or waiting for work is concerned, absolute waiting for work in those companies which had to close their activities due to the government's decision. I personally do not support this other work, but this is my personal opinion. Because I don't think waiting for work is comparable to working hours, except in the case I mentioned. This and these companies should be reimbursed in full. The fact is that they have ceased their activities because of the Government's action, not because of the changed market situation. However, in these changed market conditions, some companies want to survive in their own way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u127	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mrs. Susanna Pretty Šimenko has the floor. The next one should be Mr Jože Lenart. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. Introductoryly, I would like to thank the Minister for being here with us for the third day now, and I am pleased that only the opening presentation was given by the President of the Government himself, which, of course, weighs in on the law that is before us today. There was a speech here today mainly by opposition Members on areas that we have actually removed from the law and are no longer in the PKP6. I understand in some way that not all members of the Committee on Finance have been able to follow all the changes that have happened to this law in the last two days, but still somehow there has been enough time to familiarise themselves with the report of the Committee on Finance before the debate they have had. It has been said that we boast of the number of PKP laws, that it is important to talk more about quantity than quality. I can't agree with that. The figures are those that talk about the quality of the measures already taken in PKP1 to PKP5, and not least, we will probably be able to talk about PKP6 within a month or at least at the beginning of next year. Although they have already been mentioned here today, it is more than obvious that we need to repeat these numbers. Temporary waiting for work – more than 300 million euros; exemption from contributions for all social insurance – around 125 million euros; exemption from pension contributions, disability insurance for workers who work – 435 million euros; exceptional support in the form of basic espionage income – 83 million euros; a single solidarity allowance for pensioners – almost 67 million euros; a supplement for risk and special burdens – more than 200 million; tourist vouchers – 127 million and so on. These are the numbers that speak of quality. If our solutions were not of quality, the citizens and the economy would certainly not benefit them. It was mentioned with regard to the payment of the kindergarten that it is in itself conditional that if the child is not in kindergarten, then it does not come to that and that now we are bragging about this measure. It is not in itself reasonable, for even if in some other circumstances the children are sick for a month and are at home, the parents are still forced to pay for the kindergarten, and on the other hand, the difference that they themselves do not pay is paid by the congregation. In this case, when children are at home — of course those who can — provide protection for those who cannot, protection in kindergartens is also guaranteed, no extra fees will be required. These measures were said to finance our ideological supporters. Yes, if so, then the coalition of these SDS, NSI, SMC and Desus parties has nothing to fear, because in the elections we will get 100 percent support. 930 thousand people have benefited from the vouchers, 150 thousand have benefited from the temporary waiting for work, 305,000 have received the supplement. If they're all our constituents, if we're funding our constituents, then we're really not afraid of our future. I'd say it like it was said. The virus doesn't choose, it doesn't matter which sex it belongs to, who it supports in the elections. Last but not least, Slovenia is not an island where we could isolate ourselves and we would say no one goes down, no one comes up, we'll all be strict and we'll get rid of the virus. We are a small country in the middle of Europe and how much we depend on other countries, especially economic ones. We are an extremely export-oriented country and simply things, as we somehow could have stopped them in the first wave, we cannot in the second wave, no matter what measures are taken. And here in the National Assembly, we do not take action, although even a number of citizens think that we are the ones who decide, I do not know when schools are open and when they are closed. It's up to the government. But in the government, they decide on the basis of the opinion of the expert team, which is based on what our healthcare currently goes through, what is the burden in hospitals, what is the burden on intensive care. This is crucial for individual decisions. We here, in fact, are merely mitigating measures, helping the economy, helping people to maintain jobs, and helping citizens, the most vulnerable groups. And in a way he's not afraid. If anyone else is on the right hand side, we are still aware that a well-functioning economy depends on what our education will be, what our health system will be, what social systems will be, and what they will be able to afford in the country. It is therefore crucial for us to maintain the economy in some way, to help it, if possible. Unfortunately, it is no different than the fact that at a given time the state has to commit itself, but it is important how this money is then distributed and to whom that money is distributed to help them. To keep the maximum number of jobs so that people can keep their jobs, because only in this way will they be able to maintain themselves, their families, and not least help to maintain the whole system we have. There were also some criticisms about the amendments that the opposition amendments had not been followed. Nevertheless, many amendments were heard, some even very similar to ours. Thus, in a way, many of these, including yours, amendments have been taken into account. Otherwise, as our Prime Minister has said, the seventh PKP package is being prepared and it is right to prepare, because, last but not least, it is necessary to respond to the situation we are in today. Today is not the same as tomorrow or the situation in one week. Unfortunately, we can't talk about some normal situation, we have an epidemic period. And you are still called upon by the well-respected opposition to participate in the drafting of this law. No one has said no to you, even today you have been invited, let us cooperate, give your good suggestions, and I believe they will be taken into account. Of course, I will be happy to support this law myself because I am convinced that it contains really good measures that are really going in the right direction. The partial coverage of fixed costs to those most affected companies that have either had to stop or implement it to a substantially reduced extent seems crucial to me. It's not enough. I believe a lot of other economists will say, yes, that doesn't help me enough. We cannot completely resolve the situation, but we can also mitigate the situation by delaying its payment of contributions, taxes to exempt them from rents, unless they have their own premises, of course if the owner is a State or a local community, but the rest is, of course, the lessor and his good will, depending on how he acts in the given situation. Reimbursement for waiting time at home; some for quarantine, one for child protection. People are in difficult situations. A lot of people work from home, have a lot of work to do, and on the other hand, they keep their little baby, and they help another one who's in school. Today, the situations we are talking about are difficult, and it is difficult for the Government to deal with what to do next every week, but it is crucial when they look at the picture in health. Probably a lot of people find this hard to imagine, but talk to people working in UKC Ljubljana, UKC Maribor, what a real picture it is. I believe that in the first wave it was difficult, no one knew anyone, hardly anyone who knew anyone who had ever been ill with a fellow, today we know a bunch of them. Many, fortunately, get over the disease without major complications, and some of them are very, very seriously ill, and they are also among those who have not had any more serious diseases so far, and they would say that they are healthy, fit, sporty. And the situation is more than serious. I think it's a good idea for us to really get together here today. I was extremely disappointed yesterday when we voted on the law on the Committee on Finance. Although most of the opposition abstained in the vote, which I think is correct, as with all the PKP laws so far, Levica objected. We will divide more than a billion euros, and it is really difficult to understand that someone is opposed to it. I understand that you have reservations about individual measures, about individual solutions, and I respect, even if you abstain from voting, but that we are opposed to helping an economy on which your constituents, your supporters, ultimately, are difficult to understand. As I say, I will be happy to support this marriage myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Chairman. Yes, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I have a feeling that we are living somewhere in two worlds, listening to discussions today about the effectiveness and inefficiency of anti-Korona measures. Some of the coalition seems to really believe that the measures are successful, that we are flying perfectly in this crisis. Unfortunately, people and the economy clearly warn us that this is not the case. Every day. People, entrepreneurs, the economy are the ones who expect from the government a clearer picture of where we are going tomorrow and, above all, want to know how to get help or how long we can expect it. This is the aid that the Government is presenting today in the sixth anti-Korona measure, and you say how successful the Government is in doing so. What, though, are the reactions of the respected Government on the other hand? In billions we measure Slovenia's indebtedness – we are the sixth country in the European Union family after increased debt to GDP in this year, during this period. It is said that the assessments of the competent authorities in the European Union are very beneficial for the actions of the Slovenian Government. Is that true? Each new package brings additional complications. How can you get help, who is the share of the aid, and who has been forgotten? All of this brings so much dissatisfaction among people, among entrepreneurs, in the economy, and especially in health care and home for older people, where we have practically people or employees, left the whole team to a standstill and are now being resolved by a healthy farm. Yeah, it's true, firsthand, they're making room for each other, putting up containers, moving patients. Really, public health is saving you today. Where were you after the plane took off until the second wave arrived? I'm serious. At that time, in health care and in nursing homes, as governments have done in Austria, in Germany, that health care and nursing homes have been much better prepared for this second wave, unfortunately not for us. Why did the economic liquidity guarantee scheme work in Germany already in March, why is the PKP2 still not working to a sufficient extent or almost not working today? Why so many questions, the dissatisfaction of entrepreneurs, that they don't get help, subsidies for employees on hold, at work? We must be aware that people are monitoring how the aid is done in Austria, Germany, where many of our relatives are serving bread, and then they have very good information. There's help in a few days, with us in a few months. I will repeat: in Austria and in Germany, help is provided when they complete the form and send it in a few days, with us in a few months. I got a letter yesterday about the one I gave. People, the economy seriously wonders why you're sitting in debt billions, talking, and people and the economy can't get help in time. Answers are not received or repeated to delay due to technical problems. These answers are kind of standard for everything. This is the eternal problem of Slovenia, this bureaucracy, the ineffective functioning of the policy, which appears everywhere, and that is why both people and the economy can no longer accept and tolerate and therefore are increasingly loud. Of course, there was a bit of a quick one-off after a few hundred euros. This is not the kind of aid needed to sustain the economy. They were just fast candy, and we really can't brag about it, at least not in front of a professional, respected colleague and a colleague. However, what is important is how companies in charge of yesterday should survive today, for example, for development projects, for the expansion of markets, for the growth of production, and also for the opening of new activities – young businesses. We must be aware that these are the companies where tomorrow we will rebuild GDP, the added value and, of course, have filled the state pension, health and municipal cash registers. Entrepreneurs, the economy just rationally asks you and ask you to give us help, quickly if you're already saying that money is enough for everyone. Then where's the money? We have also heard this several times in the public media, that you also talk to the Prime Minister at the head of the government that enough money is enough. Although we today have no choice but to survive in debt — today, no — we need to pay more attention. Where are the right paths to work tomorrow after which the economy that bears the burden of rejecting today's debt increase of Slovenia? The economy needs to know what the government's strategy is from this crisis. Are there new jobs in the woodworking industry? Where's our fortune? Since we have this wealth in raw materials, of course, we do not know how to use it. Are these self-sustaining jobs related to co-natural tourism? So we're missing this strategy that we can trust and then we'll decide on the right path. That's what we need. Not just those measures from today to tomorrow. People need to know, the economy needs to know which way to go. Entrepreneurship expects the government, from the policy to help them to stand by them, today and tomorrow, in the long run, this is particularly important. Entrepreneurship will keep jobs, people will have jobs, that is, respected government. This is also the essence of the proposal of Article 107, the amendment tabled by the List of Marjan Šarc, to act effectively and quickly, as other governments do, where measures are effective and people and the economy trust these governments much more than we do. Dear Government, both our generation and future generations will follow us on this path and if we deviate too far from these true paths, we are all in no way well written. People don't forget, we have to remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Member Alexander Reberšek has the floor. Here you go. Ah, first of all, Minister Andrej Shircelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Member! I will now apologize to those who listen to this, and to those who have also listened yesterday or the day before, because I have already responded to your allegations very identical, I cannot be certain that even the same claims you have just made on the Committee on Finance cannot be held to account. That's why those of you who need to listen to this answer twice now are solely because you ask the same questions twice. Also, it says where they get the money and how they get the money, who gets the help. In this regard, I have also received information from the Employment Office that they have paid everything in hand so far. It was a specific matter and they paid it all in time to all those who had submitted the applications; at least so proper that it could be paid off on this basis. So from this point of view, the laws when you ask questions — whether it's rhetorical or not — who gets it, how gets it, when gets it, and so on. All hands are fixed and all is paid in hand and these hands are confirmed here. The Employment Service, according to my information I received when I first answered your questions, has no delays in that regard. Of course, I can't say, just in case, whether it was right or wrong, but you're only mentioning one case. The next question is, who gets help? Most of the measures are designed to help companies in all organisational forms, whatever they are; whether they are shareholders, whether they are companies with limited liability, or companies with unlimited liability, or independent entrepreneurs and so on. These measures are addressed to these companies or to these companies. Thus, from this point of view, the law is the law, and all the laws we have so far have been absolutely clear about it and there are no problems. There are also measures in these laws addressed to individual groups of people: whether they are students, pensioners, independent entrepreneurs, religious employees and so on, cultural workers and so on. These too are precisely addressed, and who knows exactly, gets help on the basis of these measures. There are no problems here, even in practice so far. About the debt you're mentioning. Yes, transparently, we are in debt, the state is in charge of these measures, the state is in charge of financing healthcare in particular, I say state, I will be more precise, the government in this case, and the government is in charge of covering primarily the costs of health care and helping businesses. What costs are needed for this, transparently, reports are received by the National Assembly – I apologize for the delays if they have ever been. The Commission shall examine these reports for the supervision of the public finances of the National Assembly so that transparency is ensured from this point of view. The Fiscal Council has warned us that we need to be even more transparent here and that we will be even more transparent in the Ministry or in the Government, with no problems. For each expenditure or expense, documentation will be provided to the Fiscal Council, the Court of Auditors, the Public Finance Supervisory Commission, so that there is no problem with this point of view. Next. You're referring to the insurance scheme. We are extending the guarantee scheme so that they can now receive 25 per cent of the revenue, in this context it has not been used and has not been used. You can take this as a bad thing, which means that companies give less guarantees; on the other hand, from a financial point of view, this is good because liquidity is satisfactory. And if you're asking about those companies that are in charge of development and so on, you've also mentioned how to do business now and so on, we've found a solution for these companies, so that they can postpone loans or the payment of annuity. And we're extending that now. I'm telling you again. They can postpone payment of taxes, they can postpone payment of annuity, they have compensation for workers who are unable to work now, businesses, and they have PKP6 compensation for fixed costs. I think here a very large part of all costs are borne by the state. It's a very large part. I have listed variable costs, fixed costs, credits, taxes; in short, these are those costs in the company and they are intended for PKP measures if you want. I'm not just gonna say one or more. I am pleased that you have once again asked me the same questions so that I can answer again in the same way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Member Jože Lenart has asked for the replica, only before I give you the replica, I suggest that the replica is in line with the rules of procedure, otherwise it is better to apply for the discussion, which will be next. So there won't be any dilemmas about polemics and things like that. You want a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u134	Dear Chairman, enough with the replica, yes. It's very specific. Thank you for having also replied once again, knowing that the List of Marjan Šarc mainly alerts me, too, personally, to the delay in the deadlines that people and the economy do not receive and a lot of these conditions that you are putting in, which the economy has not been prepared for. In particular, this is the case when you initially said it was one case. I just gave you one case so I don't expose them here 10, 20, but I can send you an e-mail to check it out because it's a really bad thing to say here. Look, yesterday this entrepreneur replied to me: “I listened to the Minister’s reply. Our role is perfect because we've got everything confirmed, so don't hold what he said. Other major salons in Ljubljana have the same problems as us. It has already been exposed to POP TV. The big problem is that when we put papers on the portal, we should at least get a contract signed by the institution within 15 days, and that only comes at the end of two months. I'm personal "and so on [[…]] [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u135	Comrade Lenart, where did the Minister not understand you correctly? It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u136	What I'm saying, he's gonna do differently and now [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u137	This is gonna be a debate, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u138	I guarantee from the written evidence of entrepreneurs that it is in practice different. [[…]] And if you don't hear entrepreneurship, then the dissatisfaction will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u139	This is a debate, this is not a replica. I suggest you stick to Article 70 of the Rules of Procedure and nothing else. We're moving on. Now let Member Alexander Reberšek have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u140	President, thank you very much for your word. Yes, with the five anti-korona packages adopted, the government helped both the population and the economy, and the logical consequence is the CAP6. The main objective of the package is to respond quickly to the problems caused by the second wave of the epidemic. This package, which we are considering today, weighs as much as 1.1 billion euros. We therefore have a PKP6, which represents a package of assistance to employers and thus employees in terms of job protection. At the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities, the preparation of the measures was based mainly on three priorities: a responsive labour market, care for the elderly, transparent and user-friendly social system. The key measures set out in this package are: compensation for working time of 100 per cent and no more than 80 per cent, as has been the case so far; deferment of 12-month bank loan liabilities, financial compensation to farmers due to income losses, and also the coverage or partial coverage of fixed costs to the most affected companies. PKP6 imposes the obligation to accept adequate employment immediately upon entry into the register of unemployed persons and not only after the expiry of three months of registration, as has been the case so far. I welcome this change because we have a lot of people at the Employment Institute who don't want to work, and some are taking advantage of this system. Because of these people who are healthy, able to work and do not want to work, there is a constant foreign labour coming to us, which works for minimum wage, and they are also exploiting our social system because of the constant inflow of cheaper labour. The wages and standards of our citizens simply cannot grow, which is why, of course, I support this measure. A healthy, capable person needs work, not financial social assistance. However, the measure that I most look forward to in the PKP6 is that from now on parents of hospitalised children will stay in the hospital free of charge, namely those parents who have children under the age of 15. So far, this has only been the case for parents under the age of 6. In Slovenia we have many families with sick children, many of these families regret the income and the financial situation does not allow parents to, say, pay nights and be together at the most difficult times with their child when he is lying in a hospital. In New Slovenia we listened to the parents of these children who are being treated in hospitals. According to our proposal, the government in the PKP6 introduced a solution so that parents of all sick children can stay free of charge with their child in the hospital by the age of 14. Actions – I often say when, if not now, and let these actions be as many as possible – are considered, but not a good word, and in New Slovenia we are aware of it. And those acts when you're in power don't count for a nice word when you're in opposition. When I am in power, I would simply like to say that the SD's minister abolished a warm meal for the students in 2010, and this minister, Minister Igor Luksic, simply said that the money for lunches for all is gone and abolished the 100 per cent funding of lunch for the students. Minister SD. Today, his client colleagues are putting in legislation on free food, although they know exactly that it is us, this government has already regulated in the PKP6. Exploitation of children for political purposes. You show concern for your fellow man and your actions when you're in power, not when you're putting in like, populist legislation or proposals in the opposition. However, in many better times, when you were in power, you abolished state pensions for rural women, and that was in 2011, you also suspended scholarships for under 18-year-old students, and for students and students over 18 years of age, you abolished children's allowances. Although you bear the name social in your own name, your actions show exactly the opposite. For the past 20 years, you've run 14 different ministries and you've been in the government, but you've never done anything wrong. Take responsibility for your irresponsibility. But I want to go back to PKP6. This government gives back to children what SD took from them in 2010. PKP6 introduces a warm meal to students and students from weaker families at school. Practically, this government only gives, including the local community. Well, respectable citizens and citizens, if you don't believe me, ask your mayors, ask the mayors of your municipalities, when did they have so much money in this government or during the previous government run by Marjan Sarec? Let us also consider the fact that times are extremely bad and that someone has had significantly better times or conditions. But it grieves me, and it truly grieves me that the opposition is always and again diverting attention to some universities, punishments, and I don't know what else. In my opinion, this is just for one reason: attention is being paid by the good work of this government. I also owe an answer or comment to Mr Jožet Lenart, Member of the LMS. With all due respect, I don't mean anything wrong, I don't want you to get me wrong, but in your client you have the answers and the suggestions for all the solutions in the country, the answers to all the questions – why did you then throw the rifle into the corn? I know it's not possible to replicate a replica, but I think I'm going to deserve a replica right now because I think I've upset a lot of people. I've only told what lies on my soul, and what I personally feel, but especially I don't like lies, manipulations and deceptions, because the story I follow here on the first page of the National Assembly is very different than I see in the media at night. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Only Bevk has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President, the well-respected assembly. I didn't think it was worth it with the predecessor, and I don't think it's worth having to argue, because what someone did right or wrong, they're going to judge and tell history. So casually shake some of the impressions of a political party, you can make each of us, but it seems to me that it is beneath the level and it is not the content of this law. Let me start by saying that I will not oppose the proposal of the Sixth Anti-Koronic Law or the Law on Intervention Measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19 epidemic, which is adopted by emergency procedure. Under the urgent procedure, legislation on a proposal from the Government can only be dealt with if it concerns the security or defence interests of the State, the removal of the consequences of natural disasters or the prevention of severely remedial consequences for the functioning of the State, and this must be thoroughly substantiated. If we now put on the left-hand side weighing measures that actually meet the conditions for handling the law by emergency procedure and on the right-hand side the so-called planted articles, then it is clear that the articles which address measures to mitigate the consequences of the Coronavirus epidemic are being considered. The fact that Prime Minister Janez Janša said at the presentation of the bill today, I state, "games for a package of measures to preserve the condition of society, the country and the economy even after the epidemic" and specifically highlighted the measure of extending subsidisation of waiting for work or as a novelty mentioned the partial coverage of fixed costs for companies and announced the seventh package, which will address the period after the epidemic was defeated. He did not present with a single word why the government included in this package so-called planted articles that had no connection to the epidemic. Therefore, I propose that all the so-called subordinated articles in all anti-Korona packages be reviewed at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, from 1st to 6th, so that we can clean up this legislative virus, which has caused a situation where many people in the country no longer trust this government. It is also because of this that it no longer trusts measures to mitigate the covid-19 epidemic as in the first wave of the epidemic, when we were able to model the whole of Europe. Unfortunately, at least from the third package, the government has decided to pursue completely selfish, political and clientistic interests and to use the state-of-the-art stance during the greatest health and social crisis in recent decades to settle services to various stakeholders or even individuals. Therefore, the Constitutional Court should be determined by the so-called "substantiated" articles. However, I will not object to this law alone, for it still brings more benefits than damage. I believe the Constitutional Court will clear the weeds. And a post-scriptum at the end of my short contribution. This afternoon at STA, I read a contribution that Dr. Aleš Rozman, director of Golnik Clinic, had long received threatening letters. I must say that I am appalled that an anonymous group is getting into health care workers who, in addition to other related professions, are paying the biggest tax in the fight against the Coronavirus and this major epidemic. That's why I explicitly condemn this doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The last to be reported for discussion is the Member of the Committee of the Regions. Franz Ducky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u144	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listen to the representatives of this government and of the coalition, the last of them from the so-called Christian Democrats, "when you are in power, this government gives" or earlier by Mark "who is responsible for what is done, we will not ask ourselves" or by the Minister himself "the government owes itself, so there is no problem, you will get". Then what does KNJF get? Some piece of paper on two sides that says we're in debt for so many and so many billion. This isn't a report. This is what I read in the paper. If we ask ourselves questions that the editor of the Sabbath annex, who rules, answered nicely some time ago. Who rules in constitutional parliamentary democracy? Janez Janša? A scarf? Cerar? Damian? I don't know, Eva Irgle? No, there are laws. Or at least we should rule the laws. We're supposed to be taking them. My colleague Vojko, whom I affectionately call Socrates, said what is the essence of constitutional parliamentary democracy. From different positions, from different life experiences, in the human language, more people should know what is always not true. Are we talking about these laws here? We don't talk most of the time. It's some kind of embezzlement of two old married couples who should have divorced 15 years ago, who's more guilty of not getting divorced. Now we have this sixth marriage in play. I've been thinking about this for the last few days and I've remembered one meal that I can't eat anymore because of allergies. It's called a pusher. Even if you're a vegetarian or a vegan, you know what a pusher is. You can't squeeze everything alive into a pressurizer and spice it up with anything else. But as he said very well, in these PKPs something is being pushed that is not to be accepted in this way in the National Assembly. I didn't think of it, that's what some team of parliamentarians remembered before a fellow Tank who's been here for 20 years, and they wrote it down. And then you wonder why we're upset about it. Because they're not some kind of emergency. Okay, everybody knows someone, and everybody has a friend, and they always have something inside, but that's not how serious parliamentary is. On the other hand, this PKP6, with all due respect, probably even the minister no longer pilots it, because the amendments are flying up and down. I will not cry now how many amendments we have tabled from the opposition, but you have not accepted any. In fact, you're one, the one from the SAB, but then you should accept another prison amendment, and you didn't. In that PKP, I don't know about two, three of us have problems from which date this applies. If we have such bloatedness on one side, we are the best in the universe, on the other hand, if our phones are burned down, which is a colleague from LMŠ, and someone else, yes, probably the reality is somewhere in between. Perhaps this government is not the best in the universe, but perhaps even those who warn of something have some valid reasons for it. I'm not exactly some guy from the gym, unlike our Jani, but 150 people are crying that you forgot about them, who are dealing with it, if I just say the last case. Instead of letting me know that these patches are good, there are people in every marriage who are set up to cluck about it. Before that, we were talking about Alexandra Pivec for four months together. I live 15 kilometers from the border, who has already mentioned any Austrian or German cases or any other, there is the point of actually getting things done as soon as possible, not some kind of square circle that we're going to go. Also, because we are in a state that is not merely a state of fear, it is a state of anxiety. Fear was lurking and then somehow logically explained. We're in some shit right now, and we're in a state of anxiety. The virus mutates, twice the government has missed 14 days, told you mathematics, not the opposition, and basically we have some condition that we have. Then here, Mr. Shircelj, because you are not a constitutional lawyer, with all due respect, you refer to Article 72. I've told you many times, the Constitution doesn't read in such a way that you just pick up what suits you. There is Article 32 — freedom of movement, there is Article 34 — a personal dignity that Zan Mahnic is joyfully violating every day with his nebulosis on Twitter, and then the government refers to it as freedom of speech. The former secretary of state from the department said: “The Ministry is with a crowd of districts”. They're already mixed up in schools from these districts. Some principals tell me that they don't even read them anymore because they just don't play them anymore. Then we should probably ask ourselves why people protest. We have a problem with some people who don't think deep enough about this epidemic, but I'm not exactly a person who is crazy about national characters, but a little. Look, in Slovenia, citizens and citizens can't mess with a stick. And if it's not clear to Janša after 30 years, I feel like I should slowly go to the sunsets. Well, I don't mean anything by it. You can't. And then the folk frustrates. Even in Germany, one of them ran into the glantres today before Mrs Merklov's home. With such acts, and even with those 15 grand, whether it's only a jury and a half or not, we'll only have more Zlatkos, and more of them under the masks will be hunting for something. Finally, we will have what happened in England — Mrs Fox, who was literally slaughtered by a Member there. Have you forgotten the possibility? I absolutely agree with what Comrade Bevk said as an experienced Member and with what our Han said about Krek and this. But I remember, you know, I've been going through this for seven years. They yell at me, you hear me, go to Kumrovac, go to Belgrade, you're this, you're that, you're a death threat. And that comes from your side of the street. And here we both should be aware of that. I'm not gonna say there's nobody on this side of the street. Sometimes I tell Micah to forgive me. Everyone has their own Kordish. Of course, now I've gone a little moral. At the very least, what my dear lady says is happening to us: What you're doing in the woods is getting out of the woods. When the SDS is in the opposition, if we have steaks on the table and we throw him the best steak, you'll find something bad and you'll roll over it. And now we have this reverse moment, and sometimes even when there's something good, it comes back from the woods and it's looked at that way. Nothing can be said in this House right now. The easiest thing to do is to roll like a young colleague who's gone out now that we're in power. This is not the rule of law, then it is not constitutional parliamentary democracy. Then we from the opposition are some ornament, which we can say as in some little serious, a little less serious parliaments, to obstruct, but I don't know, we're going to meet in the Trojans for example. I would like to discuss this law today, and I am a Member, and our Bojana reads it all by someone else, and I no longer follow how these amendments fly up and down. In fact, we would need to interrupt this meeting today to see what has happened today, both on the government side and on our side, and to see this in detail tomorrow, to define the Legal and Legal Service, to finally take into account what an experienced Member who has been in the mid-1990s for the first time, if I am not mistaken, colleague Sam Bevk. But no, of course, you will, as long as you have the votes, somehow move on. However, when we propose some amendments from the opposition, we hear that this interferes with the content of the law. Yeah, 300 hairy rosomas, what's he got to do?? To the salad from the cafeteria? I don't know, there's a condition right now that I'm going to stop at this point. There can be no more serious debate. In fact, of all the amendments proposed by the opposition, it's good, because sometimes there's a populist amendment, I admit, and what is the amendment that I'm going to make for you, because when I'm in power, I'm going to accept it, and then I won't. But three quarters of these amendments, which we have invested through all of the PKPs, are something you have overlooked for such or other reasons. I believe you're dying in government because of the current situation. We've been churchd by almost ordinary Members of Parliament almost, let alone you. I also believe that most of the proposals are well-intentioned. We do not detect warm water because most countries in Europe react in a similar way, one less thoughtful, the other more, but Parliament should be a place of public use of the mind. But right now, it's just some sort of chat room. And as a result of this babbling, we get events that are happening to Mr. Krek and that are going to happen to someone else. For this reason we should think a little bit, and as colleague Brglez was very fond of speaking when he was sitting there, one of the key principles of democracy is self-restraint. And that's not here. I'll limit myself to this moment. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I see there's still interest. I'm asking you to sign up. First he gets the word Mojca Žnidarič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! So today we're taking the sixth anti-korona package. But we do not count quantity or quantity as we have seen today, but quality. In particular, a rapid response to new, difficult and very rapidly changing covid-19-related situations is considered. In this sixth anti-korona package, aid to the economy is first and foremost given that a number of activities are closed. It is precisely because of government decisions and because it is necessary to maintain as many jobs as possible that the law in this package helps the economy and, as a result, we also help our citizens and citizens. Epidemiological conditions are changing so quickly that these laws cannot really be adopted in advance, but can only be accepted from the outside and adapt to the situation on the ground. For example, this law simplifies work at home. It extends the partial subsidisation measure of reduced working time from full time to 30 June 2021. It shall also extend the partial reimbursement measure for pending workers until the end of January 2021. At the same time, it changes or increases the ceiling of this compensation, amounting to EUR 890 gross, which was linked to the highest unemployment allowance, to the average wage, which is some EUR 1,000 800 gross. It is also clear in this law that the employer cannot apply the remuneration for waiting for work to be applied to the worker during the termination period. As we have heard, Article 66 states that an unemployed person must also receive adequate employment immediately after entering the register. This means one level lower than his education or as he has done in the last 12 months. Otherwise, with the amendment of the coalition, this matter was eased slightly and it is now stated that a lower one level of suitable employment can be offered to all. Personally, the previous doctrine was closer to me, because if students, students, pensioners are helping out in health care now, I do not know why the unemployed would not contribute more. This article was placed in this law mainly because of lack of staff in health and social institutions. We also heard that only a quarter of the unemployed were sent to interviews. So my original diction, which was a little bit stricter, was even closer to me than the one that's a little nicer now. At the time of the declared epidemic, all those who are entitled to a public remedy at the time of the epidemic shall be extended by one month for the duration of the epidemic. I'm going to focus a little bit more on agriculture and health, because that's what I'm covering. So we can see from agriculture that crisis distillation and crisis wine storage measures are being extended. These were then mentioned in the PKP3 for the first time, because by closing all the guesthouses, with the cancellation of all the events, wine sales had fallen considerably. Financial compensation shall also be provided for the loss of income for farmers, farm operators and support undertakings on farms provided that the sector has suffered a minimum of 30 % of income loss. The prices of agricultural leases are also reduced by 20% by the first half of the following year. The measure of free leasing of farmed agricultural land owned by the Republic of Slovenia is also being extended for 10 years. I will also touch on health care, which is now crucial in this situation. As we have already heard, the age limit of children who are entitled to cohabit with one of the parents at the time of hospitalization increases from the current 5 years to 14 years of age. Now that visits to hospitals and also to homes are banned during the epidemic, this measure is all the more necessary and necessary. This sixth package clearly provides that the allowance to work with covid patients established in the PKP5 is not excluded by a supplement under the collective contract for public servants. Of course, the redistribution allowance remains. So these supplements are something, all three of them don't rule out each other. But I'm sure that money is not everything, even if these supplements were raised even more than the opposition has proposed, but the health workers, the socialists are actually working more with the heart and the ethical drive than with this money. It is right that they are somewhat rewarded, if possible, but there is a certain limit that is capable. Budget resources are also provided for these allowances, including for private individuals within the public network, also referred to as concessional individuals. However, since we have been informed of an anomaly or perceived injustice from the ground, for example, that the professional directors and the main nurses who actually work with covid patients are not entitled to supplements, we have prepared an amendment in the SMC to Article 127.b and then this supplement to work in a risky situation is also available to directors in the public sector in the activities of health and social protection. Of course, there are still a lot of measures, and I could count them, but most of them I won't. Perhaps this free, warm meal a day for students and students from socially weaker families, which has in fact been made possible before on the basis of the ministerial district, is also now confirmed in this PKP package. This meal is therefore free of charge up to the third income class of the child supplement. Entrepreneurs will also receive certain partial replacements for fixed costs. The SMC proposal will also exempt sports organisations from rent and will also be eligible for co-financing of protective equipment and more. Indeed, the measures are considerable, and there is no way to list them all today. Of course I'll support the marriage. I will also make some proposals for the CAP7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Vice President for your word. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, a nice greeting to you all! The debate is behind us today. We are considering the sixth package of so-called measures to mitigate the consequences of the Coronavirus crisis. Of course, measures are absolutely necessary because both Slovenia and the whole of Europe and the world are indeed facing a great test that has affected us in the wake of the major health crisis, which is then reflected in the economic crisis and other crises. The whole world is ahead of a great deal of testing and normal, and it is right for governments in such cases to help the economy and people who have somehow experienced this severe health crisis and, consequently, the economic crisis. Certain measures covered by this sixth package are, of course, absolutely necessary and are good. That's a fact. It is true, however, that, as with all packages so far, even in this sixth package, the government has not listened sufficiently to the actual needs of citizens and citizens. She didn't have a social dialogue. This has been brought to our attention by the social partners, and this is a fact. As has been the case so far, this time the government has added many so-called intruders to the package of crisis mitigation measures themselves, who have nothing to do with the resolution of the crisis itself. If I say more plasticly, on the one hand, in front of Parliament, the economy, citizens and citizens are asking for help to somehow get out of the impossible situation, and on the other hand, the government coalition here in Parliament and in government palaces is planning and plotting measures to help friends of the ruling coalition and, in particular, Prime Minister Janez Janša. In particular, I am talking about a measure to extend accreditation to higher education institutions in the field of education, including those who do not meet the conditions for extension. Why did the government do this, respected colleagues and colleagues? The answer is very simple. Because the higher education institution, co-owner of which is also Dr. Peter Jambrek, a great friend of the SDS and President Janez Janša, does not meet the conditions. If it is true, as one of the commercial televisions reported yesterday, that there is even a record that this same gentleman at the Ministry of Education at the end of October lobbyed for this accreditation to be extended, and talked about how NAKVIS is "gross" – this is the agency which grants these accreditations – because it does not want to extend this accreditation, and accreditation is a condition that the higher education institution has status and is therefore financed by the Republic of Slovenia. A few days after that, look at the fraction when they do not find a solution to bypass legislation, the sixth anti-korona package also steals a provision that simply moves these accreditations or checks the conditions for accreditation are no longer mandatory and the accreditation is automatically extended. Excuse me, once again, if that's true, and we'll check it out, there's a reasonable suspicion of systemic corruption. And we have not been able to respond to this by government representatives to this day. The Social Democrats, together with the democratic opposition, have thus tabled an amendment which, unfortunately, was rejected by the Committee on Finance without any real justification. Today, however, we have tried to give another option by making provision in the final provisions. The article is closed so that the amendment to the article is not possible, as provided for in the final provisions, we have tried for this absolutely unacceptable and shocking article to expire, namely the entry into force of this Article in 2022. Here I appeal to coalition partners, which are basically democratic parties with a democratic tradition that respect democratic standards in the Republic of Slovenia, I appeal that at least these parties support our amendment and thereby prevent this corrupt clause. It is really important for social democrats to protect quality public education, especially that the country acts transparently and avoid any attempt at corruption. This is just one of the intruders in this so-called sixth antikoronic package. Not to mention that in this package you, among other things, are making contributions to priests and religious workers. What does this have to do with the epidemic? Nothing at all. And these are the intruders who throw a dark light on the entire package or package of measures. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I really urge you to reconsider, however, the adoption of an amendment of the opposition and then in some way we can jointly support those measures that are good and urgently necessary. Not to mention the draconian penalties for the invitation to protest, or otherwise to write down, for the invitation to the gathering of citizens and citizens. This is, of course, unacceptable, this is undemocratic. I hope this is unconstitutional, too. And it is a pity that we are always talking with these intruders from those key measures necessary for the functioning of the country to these certain measures, the SDS-actions to create another parallel republic. Now, let me finally answer my colleague Mark Pogačnik and anyone else on the other side of that page the eternal evidence of how I took my mask off my face at the end of May. Comrade Marko, yes, indeed, that is true, that was the end of May, that was a few days before the triumphant flight of planes over Ljubljana, a few days before you solemnly declared a great victory over the epidemic. I have done this consciously, and today I would have done exactly the same in a situation as it was. This was a time when there had been no new infections or there had been minimal new infections. Mrs. Anja, can I finish, and then can you answer me? There were no infections with the Coronavirus, which was the period when the whole of Slovenia was already functioning normally, and this was the period when the leadership of the National Assembly for a few days did exactly what I proposed. And that was the period when you, Comrade Marko, and your President, Mr Janez Janša, sat for a few days in the State Assembly without any distractions, without masks. I don't think that was the main reason for what happened later. You also see that I attended several demonstrations at the end of May. That's what he's holding. But at a safety distance, on a bike and we stuck to all the rules. This was during the period, I repeat, the end of May, June, when there were no infections in Slovenia. On 15 August, for example, at the festival of Mary's ascension, a large number of representatives of the current authorities, including Minister Tonin, President of New Slovenia, attended a large meeting at this religious festival, where there were more than 3,000 people, despite the fact that the merger was limited during that period, I think, to 500, but I will not say now if the number is correct. There were over 3,000 people, mostly elderly, who are vulnerable groups, according to the images, no one was taking any precautions, and this was the period when the high-speed infections began to rise. I can also show you the graph. So, please, not with this hypocrisy, not all the time to accuse unjustifiably and say again: I would do the same today in the same situation. The main problem is that you, with your approach, with your threats to people, refuse to follow the necessary measures. I can now call on citizens and citizens to stick to the measures. And I'm holding on to them myself. Do I have a mask upstairs or don't I have one? But the measures must make sense. Please stop getting political points at this because it is pointless and harmful, harmful to the health of our citizens and citizens. We must all fight to ensure that measures are respected as much as possible, and the prerequisite for this is that citizens and citizens have confidence in this government. Unfortunately, there is no confidence in this government. But there is no confidence in this government, because it is clear as a white day that the government is trying to take advantage of this severe health crisis, it is a tragedy to gain its power, to make populist statements, to subjugate all social and state subsystems, to gain and destroy freedom of the media and media landscape in Slovenia in order to silence everyone who thinks otherwise. Of course we can't agree to that. Once again, the measures that make sense must be respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u149	Thank you very much for this in-depth debate. Just to remind you, we are on the amendment of the opposition parliamentary groups to Article 6. We're moving on. Andrey Chernigoy has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u150	Your Honor, Mr Vice President, thank you for your floor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by touching my predecessor, Mr. Koprivec. Look, in your own debate, you touched my colleague, the president of a party who is unfortunately not in this Chamber, so that I can defend myself. You also mentioned a holiday, a Christian holiday, and they cannot defend themselves. So that was a very downtrodden act, I can tell. I'd really like you to get on with me next time so I can defend myself. Come on, please, take that into account! But life often doesn't go the way you want it to. The world would be different if only the happy news could be told, but unfortunately that is not the case. You don't want to get unpredictable moments in your life. And so unpredictable is this invisible enemy covid-19. For this reason, the sixth package to mitigate the consequences of the PKP6 epidemic is being addressed at the temple of democracy today – who can quickly do so twice. This government is not as strange as it mentioned earlier in the previous debate at the beginning of a colleague on the left because it was not able to solve this in the first package. This government works and solves problems across the street. But it is a fundamental difference from the opposition, we do not fight, we do not sue on the sidewalks, but we solve our challenges, as for every normal and well-functioning government, behind closed doors. But our greatest difference is that we do not succumb to the first problem, do not succumb to another problem, or give up. An agreement on cooperation has been proposed to the current opposition. This document is no fun, the opposition's response was no. I also take a lot of calls, I read a lot, I monitor the measures taken around Slovenia, in other countries – Austria, Germany, but I have a feeling that if this government, for example, translated measures from Austria and offered them in Slovenia, there would probably be opposition to some so-called subsets and again everything would be wrong. Let me tell you, we are not perfect and we are not always 100% homogeneous, but this coalition is working. I do not have all the answers myself, and all the measures are not at my heart, but we are all aware that only to take more fully into account the measures taken to combat proliferation is the only guarantee for a successful fight against an invisible enemy. Although we Christian Democrats want the economy to move forward unhindered and create added value. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I can say with certainty that your warnings about deaths here in Slovenia and, on the other hand, with the suggestions of greater economic release do not go hand in hand. The sixth package is worth a good billion euros or 1.1 billion euros and is intended for citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and, above all, for the Slovenian economy. The government has not forgotten about healthcare professionals and employees in institutions for older citizens. The Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities offers all available capacities to these institutions. Here, too, I would like to commend civil protection and local communities, which are working as quickly as possible to provide additional areas where red zones are located. I am in constant contact with them, and I will not allow your generalization, the desire to discredit this government, to offend those who give more to patients than themselves. Here I would like to thank the Minister for Finance, who is the custodian of the PKP6 package. You've done an extraordinary job, an extraordinary job. I believe that everyone here in the coalition wants to preserve the economy, so that after the crisis it will work as quickly and smoothly as possible. The current government is working in the current sixth package to extend successful measures on the one hand and, on the other hand, to introduce new measures. Let me add here that the Government and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities of Work are working towards social dialogue. Let me say here that we are also working in the Economic and Social Council, which is run by our Minister from New Slovenia and we are here trying to have and maintain constant contact in the Economic and Social Council. There's a lot of action, I don't want to list them all. But I am very proud to extend the following measures in this package. Subsidisation of reduced working time up to 30. 6. 2021, this measure will address economic uncertainties. Here the economists will be able to prepare and have a firm promise from this government that this measure will work up to 30. 6. 2021. Reimbursements for waiting for work at home. I am very happy and support this measure. We have also had in previous discussions that there is no delay in the payment of bank loans. Of course they are, even for 12 months. I come from Illyrian Bistrica myself, where we also have a lot of people working on agriculture, so I am proud to take account of the financial compensation for farmers due to the loss of income. And if we move on, you're free to pay the daycare if the child doesn't visit him. We still have a lot of measures to extend. But here I would go on and highlight some of the new measures we are introducing. Partial coverage of fixed costs to the most affected companies. Today and in the past we have seen in various media how ugly this government is, but with this package we introduce a warm meal for students and students of socially endangered families during distance learning. I believe that, in conjunction with the Ministry’s district, which has already been given, and with all seriousness, when various congregations have approached to solve this problem, we will upgrade and ensure that all children who are hungry will be fed. I am very pleased that this package exempts the payment of student home services during the declared epidemic. I get a lot of calls, and people also want to simplify the procedures for applying for work at home to facilitate the organisation of work during the declared epidemic. I also have to say it here and commend it. In New Slovenia and in the whole government, we appreciate their efforts when they give themselves and their whole heart to treat patients. And the supplements for working in a grey and red zone, 30% of the basic salary, regardless of the outbreak being declared, introduces this package. We are aware that this invisible enemy has changed a number of things and I am very pleased that if we help various companies or companies in any way to exempt them from rent, if the owner of the country or the local community, I will be very pleased to support this package. I confessed, and with great joy at the beginning, as soon as possible, I also uploaded the app to Stay Healthy. I am pleased that this application will be upgraded and somehow also linked to other similar applications across Europe. However, I must end by commending my colleague Alexander Rebersk and my colleague Ivo, who have worked tirelessly for the most vulnerable group to seek to pay for their parents to stay in hospitals for children from the age of five, has been extended to 14 years. I'll tell you one more time. I will be very happy to press the "for" button – who quickly does, twice does. Above all, I want this invisible enemy to be defeated as soon as possible and our economy and our peoples and peoples to breathe and move on as soon as possible. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Koprivc, the replica. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Chernigo in this part, when you immediately started defending yourself in some way in the sense that I was insulting religious feelings and so on. I did not recognize this in my debate. I only mentioned the event that was actually on this holiday, but I certainly didn't want to and I didn't have any regrets about it. I mentioned your President Tonin, who, unfortunately, is not here today, but because Parliament is a place of debate, so nothing was poorly meant. I just said, as you say, that we are gathering together, and that we are, I don't know, all the lazy people who cycle around and so forth, I said that a large part of the representatives of the government coalition were at this event. [[advertising from the hall]] And that's where you get [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u153	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u154	you have not followed these measures which have been ordered. [[…]] The same is true that, for example, the retired Minister Hojs is here for this speaker at a time when the exponential growth of the new infections, he took off his mask, I will not, because I would violate the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u155	Comrade Koprivc, this is a debate [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u156	And the same is true for gentlemen. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u157	That's not a replica. [[…]] Mr. Chernigoy has understood you correctly, but he has only disputed with you, with your debate. But that's not a replica, that's not the basis for the replica you're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u158	But all I can do is finish, just finish the thought. Yes, yes, Mr. Montenegro.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u159	Look, it's not a replica. You have a debate for that. If you want to say what you want to say or comment on what your colleague discussed, then apply to the debate. [[advertising from the hall]] It's hard to replicate because it's not a replica of what you're saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u160	May I finish, please? I'll be very quick.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u161	You can sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u162	I'll be done in one minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u163	Yes, here you go, finish up.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u164	In short, Mr Montenegro, I just wanted to say that I was obviously misunderstood. In any part of the debate, it wasn't about me hurting any religious feelings, but I just wanted to say that you were in violation of the decree. The same goes for Mr. Hojs, who was here in the National Assembly in front of all of you and took off our mask. And that's not what we're talking about, because I don't think it makes sense at this point to get political points.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u165	Comrade Koprivc, look, I'll take your word for it. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u166	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u167	because you do not use your replica in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[…]] That's not a replica. Mrs. Muršič, please, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u168	Thank you very much, President for your word. I would ask nicely, when you get involved in a procedural or a replica with your intervention, that then time stops, because time is running out and that's not good. That's what you're smoking our time with. So please, when you wish to comment on the debate of an individual Member, time will stop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u169	Thank you very much. My colleague, you are absolutely right, but it must be said that when the President intervenes, the polite gesture of the one who is reported to be speaking to interrupt the debate would not be a problem with the President. In this case, it is possible to do so. Procedural Master Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u170	Above all, I would like to ask you, Mr President, not to take the floor. In the replica, we have three minutes to replicate, and I specifically replicated Mr Montenegro. But you've been in my word twice for no real reason. I would really ask that we stick to some of the rules governing the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u171	See, where a procedural proposal or replica does not apply in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, the Chair shall intervene and draw his attention to this. He owes me. However, those who were warned of this, if they were polite, would wait, interrupt their debate and then give them time to move on. But this can't happen interactively, and then you need extra time. That's not how it works. I propose that we proceed with the debate. The word has magic. Dušan Verbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Chairman. Nice greetings, Minister, colleagues and colleagues a nice greeting! However, I must admit that in fashion in the National Assembly there is a complete abuse of replicas and rules of procedure, even though this is not the point of my debate right now. For the intro. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is doing very well at this time. In these times, this has also been demonstrated by agencies assessing the work of governments across Europe and the world. We have a credit rating of 3, A3 right now. Those who get to know each other a little bit should simply be so consistent and not criticise the government, say some praise first. It must also be said that in these times, this government does not withdraw from these problems and somehow seeks to overcome this crisis through its actions and actions. One of the elements of this crisis is this law before us. I also have to say a few words for the introduction myself, as all the debaters so far have gone a little beyond this context. When a person carefully listens to the debaters about this point of the agenda, I must admit that I am very surprised or disappointed. The fact is that we hear from the opposition that economists express dissatisfaction with the measures taken so far, practically up to the sixth measure, but I have several contacts, dialogues with economists and, which is neglected, even by local communities, I must admit that there is almost no criticism, there is no word on the inefficiency of the government's work. It is true, however, that in these political debates it is desirable to criticize if you are in opposition, not to mention the substance, as the Minister of Finance has made very clear in some response. One of the conditions for obtaining any funds, subsidies, compensation, whatever we call it, is a role. And somehow this role is not a force that is difficult or whatever. Those who are entitled to this must simply fulfil this role, which, if I may call it ZUP, is the perfect role. I also allow it to happen on a case-by-case basis, but it is not all as it is shown that the economists are dissatisfied with this expectation. However, it is true that certain groups have not been listed so far, which does not mean that this will not happen further. What I find quite disturbing is when they appear in the debate of the evaluation “this is unconstitutional”. I would ask, of course, more of course, I cannot expect anything else, but to assess the constitutionality of a law or legal provision is solely a competent Constitutional Court, not a political one. I think as far as this is concerned, we can take this rhetoric a little differently. Also by opposition respected colleagues, colleagues, there were some perceptions or a lot of observations about so-called intruders, planters and the like. That's what we're talking about today. I have to admit, it's nothing new. Various intruders in this legislative process appear in the various laws we adopt. In order not to make it appear that I am speaking to myself, I must touch on one particular matter which is a typical impostor and which was adopted in the National Assembly during the previous government, the Sharča government. It was an important topic in the Real Law Code for Force, and this is when we introduced with some article into the Real Law Code a provision concerning animals, that sensitive beings, despite the behavior and awareness that the content of the Real Law is intended exclusively for real estate and movable property. That's it. When we refer to intruders or instigators, when we have a bit of an answer, we talk a lot about it, but when we have a bit of a fit, we do it. Another intruder, when somehow I look at it differently, as has been the case with the opposition. I must admit, with some degree of indignation about the accreditation of the university in question. I am in the position that we need various higher education institutions in Slovenia. I hope we understand each other. These are colleges, colleges. We're not talking about so-called public education here. If we want to create a plural society through these educational institutions in this area, then I do not see why so much speech and so much opposition. The fact is, for the accreditation of universities, I think it's well-known, the NAKVIS-coded agency. Let's see what their composition is. And I don't mind their composition, and just the fact is, if it's being monitored a little bit, you can see who's preferred. Clearly, there is now a problem or stumbling block that is very appropriate in the case of this law, under the name of the plant. It is a fact and I am also a great advocate that in Slovenia there must be quite an open space for education at universities. So that no one else would understand me or abuse me. The fact is that accreditation activities are now at different universities. Those who discuss these accreditations do not even want to mention which universities are now in accreditation procedures. And I'm not going to talk about it because I don't want to talk about it much anymore. However, the fact is that I see nothing wrong with this process of accreditation even now, even when it is under way, some article of this kind is touching it. In the debate itself, a large number of amendments were mentioned many times. I must admit that, in this parliamentary practice, I have also benefited from the opposition, which is now a coalition, how many amendments we have invested in the process of enacting a law. The fact is, the procedures have been completed and any government coalition is faced with the fact that the proposal coming into the National Assembly has somehow been reviewed in detail in one way or another from its point of view by the Legislative and Legal Service. And it is also so that it reminds Members that certain matters can be substantially differently written, specified that the law will be more operational. I don't see any problem here. The reference to such a multitude of amendments has no particular weight if we look at the content, but in this political debate it turns out to be a little less than a sedition of the bill, which is simply not true. There was also a speech on these credit ratings. I have to point out again here in this debate. The fact is, I do not want to interfere with history, but history in the Republic of Slovenia has shown that debt was under tremendously high interest rates, that I will not talk about costs, but that not half of it has been so controversial, not only in such important times or in such an important law that is before us. At the same time, all those who discuss and report to the government or to the Minister of Finance on such a horrendous debt are actors, and on the one hand, it is true that, on the other hand, the great advocates, that more and more rights are needed, more and more compensations, social transfers, assistance to the economy and so on and so on. That's not working. If you want to provide some social security, if you want to provide assistance to the economy, the household, the pensioner, I will simply repeat it, the good master is indebted to the capital market when the price of money is lowest, provided that he also has a very good rating of the agencies that determine, if I say so, the market or the amount of capital in the financial markets. I have to touch one more thing, and I have to admit that it was quite disturbing, to inform the government that it was shutting down businesses and that businesses could not work. This is a complete misdirection to the public. The fact is that companies do not carry out their activities, not because the government so decides not to work, but simply because of the general epidemic, is said to be a threat to the health of citizens and people in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It is normal that in some production they are also in companies, companies or service activities. Government measures are simply a necessity and a need to combat the covida-19 epidemic and, most importantly, to preserve human health and life. But these measures, I admit, are immediately unpopular, but necessary. And that's the reality. Now, in these political debates, this is changing a little bit in one way or another and so on. A few more words about the law itself. One of the important or key issues concerning the law itself, and I very much welcome, is that the applicant has already addressed and taught us in the opening part, if I may say so, the so-called principles that follow the objective of this law. And I'm not going to talk about the goal, because in the debates, regardless of position or coalition, I think we have a common red thread here. One of the fundamental principles of this law is certainly the principle of adapting law to social conditions. There's got to be a few more words here. The epidemic has practically plunged not only us in Europe, in the world, into a completely new and unpredictable situation. Those of us who are members of the Committee on Finance have heard this very word many times that one of the key issues the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is dealing with is this unpredictability, which requires adaptation to measures, but in individual cases it may be that a group does not take account of or go beyond these measures. It is therefore right that the following so-called measures are being prepared very quickly to include them. The president of the Fiscal Council has also devoted much time to this unpredictable situation. I think that there has been a very constructive and genuine debate on the Committee on Finance. This unpredictability is a key element which, in terms of its duration, still has a significant impact on society itself, individuals and the value system itself. In the light of this uncertainty, the legislator is one who does not only have the right but also the duty to adapt the legislation to the situation and to change it accordingly, somehow dictates and follows these so-called changed situations. When we're in an epidemic, it's pretty urgent. So I must admit here, any debate that departs from this, of course everyone has the right to debate, but it is disregarded that important substance that every government must follow in such a case, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or any government in which the country literally happens this epidemic covid-19. Now, just a few more words, because I do not intend to be involved in the discussion below with individual articles. Somehow, I am talking to Article 59, and there will certainly be a number of these words. The essence of human rights is also the right to preserve the health and life of every human being. Here I think that the opposition or the coalition are most likely to agree on this point. But what has so far been discussed by some opposition Members regarding offences and similar or similar heights is only one side or one part of the vision proposed in a particular provision of this Act. However, the second aspect or the second view, which normally does not want to be very prominent, is that everyone has the right to life, namely, that in the case of a mass infection of the epidemic, if I may say so, for various reasons of individuals or their personal beliefs, their health, the health of an individual or other person, which unfortunately happens in these days, is to end with death. That is why I am of the view that a certain measure of responsibility is needed for everyone and everyone. If this is not the case – and in certain cases this is not the case – a warning sanction must be followed. As it is said, we all have the right to maintain our health, especially if there is a mass infection. We also prevent through criminal proceedings has a strong dissuasive message to all those who simply do not want to be aware of the seriousness of the covida-19. And worse still, with the non-responsible and irresponsible behaviour and disrespect of the medical profession and their messages, that I do not speak the conclusions of the government, they simply endanger the health of others. It is those who do not take these measures, recommendations or medical professions. It is precisely because of such behaviour of individuals or groups that I understand such extreme measures and pre-planned sanctions, which are fines in this case. I therefore support such measures, which have a particularly dissuasive function. Everyone must be aware of this and do not invoke that he does not know it for various reasons. Of course, if this so-called dissuasive function is to be achieved, the amounts are relatively high. In doing so, I myself agree that there is a need for a certain proportionality. But given that these ranges are within these ranges, there are other institutions that, if this happens, decide. And if I finish. I support the proposal proposed by the government, and I will not continue to comment on the amendment, which is the so-called criminal procedure and sanction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The word has been sent by Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u174	Thank you very much. As has already been pointed out in our position today, it is of course very important that the government follows developments in the field, that it responds to changes coming along with the second wave, let us hope that there is not yet another, that the measures to reverse are being corrected, that they are being adapted, that new changes are being adopted and that the problems that occur on the ground are actually addressed. In the SMC, we can agree with some of today's exposed debaters that there are still things in this text that, in our opinion, do not belong in this package. It's over, it's pointless to deny. But then it is necessary to be correct and also to say that most things are now being corrected and that it will not remain in the text, will not be accepted and will not go forward and will not really have any impact. One such article is also Article 55, where it must be said that the Minister responded immediately to our warnings. Also on the part of our parliamentary group, at the first moment, there were warnings of doubts about the content of this Article 55, of doubts that this Article is part of the text of this Act. I can tell you firsthand that she reacted immediately and immediately agreed that this content should be deleted. It needs to be corrected. And it must also be corrected in those debates that have already been held today, which still repeat some content and talk about some content that is actually no longer in the text itself. I really thought that, after all, we might have a constructive debate today, and let me say, an operational debate. Because we are always talking about how to be operational, how to be effective, how to react quickly, and at the same time, we do not know how to hold on to this in our own debates. If we knew each other, we would now be discussing in concrete terms the articles, specifically the amendments that have been tabled now, which are no longer so large, and we would have gone through these very important content long ago. And then I believe that they could be so correct that they don't repeat things that they don't really hold anymore. Yesterday I already warned that today an amendment to Article 35 will be tabled for the content intended for the new Article 37a. I'm glad we have this right here on the table. This is the content belonging to the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which increases the remuneration to the average Slovenian monthly salary. This compensation was previously limited by the amount of the highest unemployment allowance, which is a significant difference for the recipients. This is a significantly more favourable amount. Similarly, the amendment in Article 35 allows employers to cover 100 per cent of the remuneration for waiting hours for workers. This is also extremely important for those of whom the words are always the most current, these are small and medium-sized enterprises, which you know are in the vast majority of our country. Small and medium-sized companies dealing with the meeting industry are also involved in the industry of the events that we are talking about all the time, so this text and this amendment from 80% to 100% are extremely important because we are going to unload and maintain jobs in this way. What I forgot in my debate yesterday, however, is that we in the SMC have pointed out one nonconsistency that occurred before we corrected the text, and this is that when public transport was abolished for the inability to come to work because of the increased force that put an end to this public transport, the worker was compensated only in accordance with the existing regulation, i.e. the Labour Relations Act, which is 50%. We found this inappropriate in the SMC, disproportionate to those who stayed at home for the protection of the child, i.e. because of the greater force, and belong to 80%. I am pleased that the government has been listening and that the government has reacted and has included this equation in the text of this package. So also a worker who, due to force majeure, i.e. the suspension of public transport, will not be able to get to work will be entitled to an 80 % remuneration, which we think is right. Yesterday, I was in a hurry to discuss article 63, which touches non-governmental organisations. In the SMC, we felt that there had been some nonconsistency in the text of this article, which referred to the fact that local communities could pay total amounts to non-governmental organisations for the activities they had entered into because they were prevented from implementing the programmes imposed by higher powers that were not affected by them. In fact, the text only referred to the extension of the deadline for the submission of evidence for this payment. So I am pleased that we have now found this and today in Article 63 we are correcting the dictatorship in a way that also extends the deadline for the implementation of these activities, i.e. for programmes and projects co-financed by municipal funds for this year and could not be fully realized this year due to the epidemic. So we extend this until the end of 2021, and this inconsistencies will be resolved as well. Then it's paragraph 59. I also discussed it extensively yesterday, or we all discussed it. As my colleague Dušan has already said before me, of course some of the effects of the fines that are prescribed are also dissuasive. In the current situation, we are also aware in the SMC that this is the case and that it is likely to be the case, so in general, we do not object to any increase in fines. Of course, we must be consistent in this regard, and we must respect the principle of proportionality. I have already talked about the case of a person infected with quarantine who is being quarantined and who is being violated and walking around, a fine of between 400 and 4 000 euros is prescribed for this infringement. In our view, this is the point on which we need to focus and which is comparable then to the other fines prescribed. In our opinion, agitation or an appeal to a gathering cannot be criminal and I have already explained in detail why and how yesterday. In the morning, we had already in the SMC a draft amendment to Article 59, which speaks of only deepening the qualified form of the expansion of the range of areas referred to in Article 17, paragraph 17, of the Offences Act, which is then laid down in Article 60, which we added to the area of the protection of natural resources, safety and health at work, social protection and so on, taxes, excise duties and customs. We have also added the area of protection to people because we agree that this is a constitutionally protected public good, allowing for up to three times the fine that is provided for under the general rules. It is, however, a fact that there must be a difference between the speech itself and some consequence that has actually arisen, which we have now written here in our amendment as a particularly serious nature of the offence and is manifested by endangering the health of a large number of people at a time when the gathering of people is prohibited due to the risk of spreading the disease. And that's how we feel. It is not only the speech that is deepened, but a qualified form is introduced, which, by means of this element, is a particularly serious nature of the offence, then also means a proportionate increase in punishment or sanction for these cases that arise in practice and are, should be said, very different. At first, we thought to table these amendments ourselves, but then there was an understanding in the coalition, for which I also thank the coalition partners. I think we have taken the right step and now we have come to the point that we have tabled this amendment together and we have all signed it, which I think is right and that we are doing the right thing and I think it will be good in the end. On this occasion, in view of yesterday's debates, I also ask the opposition Members to examine and find that we have indeed followed what we agreed yesterday, and to consider that this amendment proposed for Article 59 would all be supported together. However, what SMC has detected is Article 127. When I talked yesterday about this article in the title talking about directors, which is what we all get allergic to right now, and we don't even want to talk about it. The fact is that we are also talking about the main nurses, that we are talking about professional hospital directors who are doctors who are in a department who are not sitting anywhere in an office working with patients and who are subject to the same risk situation as everyone else who works in public health institutions. It is therefore appropriate for us to also allow them to receive an allowance for these risky situations, to which they are not entitled under the collective agreement itself. That's fair. Here there are also directors of home for the elderly to understand who are also in contact with their guardians every day, and it seems to us that they are also entitled to this benefit. In addition, I drew attention to the involvement of sports organisations in the exemption from the payment of rents and in the procurement of co-financing of protective equipment and disinfectants. Surely these are things that will be known on the ground that have proved necessary and which, I believe, have now been successfully addressed together in this package.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u175	Thank you very much. Member Vojko Starović has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u176	Thank you so much for saying that. In my previous debate, I stressed that Slovenia's gross external debt is important. I also said that it grew in 2004, 2008 from 20 billion to 40 billion and that we stayed on those 40 billion and a little bit later. So it's important. It has also grown because institutions and state banks have not acted as carefully and prudently as they should. Look, now my buddy's looking at me again, the one who raises his hand. One is the debt of the country, the debt of the budget, and one is the gross debt. We are all merged with this country – whether they are companies, whether they are banks, or whether they are households. So the debt of all sectors is important and it is difficult to get rid of because we have not actually reduced it to that increase. That's when we entered Europe. The money was as much as you wanted, which was offered by the banks. Our banks have been indebted and loaned to a lot of businesses, private people and so on. Indeed, it was one such great guest who was also present throughout the world. All of a sudden, it seemed like we were gonna keep going. Businesses, land, securities, shares, everything you want. It was also purchased in the territory of the former republics of Yugoslavia and such a matter. But with every change in ownership, every change is accompanied by intermediaries, counselors, another pile of them join. There are nice commissions here that are shared. All the structures were interested in this happening. The result was that we were all in charge. Then, when Pahor’s government was in charge, it did not go to the rehabilitation of the banks that were urgently needed. Look, I had a company back then, and ours was in charge, but we were short-circuited because it was a company. [[Incomprehensible]] The bank demanded everything back immediately, so we had to sell some investments at a price, but we got rid of it because we had enough meat. But a lot of companies then went through the country because they had long-term investments and short-term resources. And that was a pogrom. This is well known by our Minister of Shircelj, whom I otherwise appreciate. At that time, it went under the second Janša government to set up a company to manage bank claims. This company was also taken over by the next government of Alenka Bratušek. And the banks actually came to terms with it. Tell them what they want to say, they were state-run by these two governments, I'll say it like that, and we'll move on. And that's when economic growth started back. I'm just warning you to be careful about the debt! This was my debate and my warning. Now if we owe ourselves the cheapest, much cheaper, thank God, because we got a good rating back because we had a low government debt. It is good to owe ourselves cheap and to be able to cover up this disaster that this epidemic has brought us. I have said several times in my speeches that I am not against this debt and that we are helping the economy because I know that the country can most easily be indebted. I just can't understand why we have to go six times more expensive in Hungary to invest in a railway where we're going to pay high interest and give them another 30,000 square metres. I don't understand that. There's something else I want to point out. Sometimes we don't understand each other. I think I'm lying. These are the data of Banka Slovenije and Umarje. I didn't lie because there were words on this side that were lying. I'm not lying, I'm just saying gross debt data, I'm not talking about budget debt, I'm talking about public debt. We need to be really careful here. I also had the feeling that some people do not understand the difference between income and expenditure and expenditure. Interest is expenditure, we paid her a few years over a billion. Expenditures that aren't expenses are when we have to repay the loans. And when we are in normal times, if we have to repay this debt — what happens? Then perhaps money will be much more expensive than it is now. So let's be careful, that's all I've been warning you about. Let's be civil, and let's not root for too easy money around, at least I think. That was my debate. If I was misunderstood, I apologize for not being clear enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Before I take my own action in this so-called sixth anti-Korona package, I would really like to thank myself for the great work of the government. We have adopted an important budget days ago, which, despite the difficult situation, is geared towards the benefit of the economy, development and, last but not least, a lot of social measures, which is sometimes said to be the case with some other government. Sometimes, however, it turns out that only the name of the party does not mean that it is indeed a strengthening of the social state. And this budget is very social, as I said, developmental. There's a sixth package ahead of us today. It's gonna be hard for anyone to tell me that this government isn't working. You may disagree with some measures, but the fact is that this government is not only working, it is working. Now I must protest one of the debates when it has been raised or said that people are in distress because of this government. Look, this is fucked up. People around the world are in trouble today. Today, they are in distress because something new has beenfallen them overnight, something they have never met and marked their lives. Last week, we recorded the most deaths due to the coronavirus on the European floor. But it's true that people are confused. And now I'm gonna tell you why they're confused. When the government took action, it was said several times from a certain part of the policy, "what are you exaggerating about, and what are you scaring people with these measures, you are causing dictatorship in the country"? And so on. When certain measures were taken when the government loosened the measures, because the epidemic had occurred, there was soon another talk about why we are now launching the measures. Not only that, after the measures have been released and the government has warned, although we are somehow going back to a more normal course of life, and it has been stressing for the month of May that we must be careful not to have another wave coming, some Members, respected, made a fool of themselves. They recorded different messages across social networks, saying that this government is clairvoyant, that in the second wave the schools will close again. The government scares people. Today, when schools are closed, today, when we had to take action, an epidemic situation is being monitored all the time, today they say that this government has been late. What are these messages to the citizens? You'll find it hard to convince me not to mess with them. How we're doing them! If at least when it comes to human health measures, they would be able to step together, and that was not even possible. There was propaganda, there was literally promotion for people who made fun of the measures, and on public RTV we could watch all kinds of gold without masks, all at the expense of taxpayers. You know, it's not a problem that meetings are organized. I'm never bothered by meetings. There's something bothering me. If these are meetings that are organised at a time when this is not allowed because the Law on Infectious Diseases is being violated, and if these are meetings that are known to be organised, but are not responsible for these meetings, it does not pay obligations and do not obtain appropriate permits. Again, it is reported that some citizens are first-class and can do everything they think they can in this country. It also bothers me that at these meetings there were many times when there was verbal violence, strong verbal violence, and in the end we had violent meetings when you knew what was going on. But it doesn't stop here. When you allow and some still feel good when they call for the murder of certain political parties, when they call for the murder of the Prime Minister, when some people think it's good, but you know, things are getting worse. Now we've got doctors on the wallpaper. These are the people who are practically working night and day to save lives. It was threatened by Dr. Krek days ago, now threatened or at least in the media, the hospital director Golnik Aleš Rozman, also a member of the government advisory group, Bojani Beović and Milan Krek again with the terms “doing crimes against the population”. You know, that's just because some people in this country are allowed such a twisted verbal act that it's not weird where we came from. But not only will I be negative, I thank not only doctors and health workers, but I am so proud and happy that in Slovenia we also have young people who have voluntarily participated in the functioning of health institutions, either institutions for older people and as volunteers help to covid departments. They help people and even help save lives. And indeed one great thanks and pride that solidarity is still present in Slovenia and that this thought has prevailed, that we are living in difficult times from which we cannot make a fool. But you know, there's something else that's bothering me today. In his position on agenda 1, colleague Starović spoke about this again, but schools need to be closed. We have clear statistics on where the virus has spread, but some continue to doubt. But if we didn't lock them up, we'd be guilty again why we didn't lock them up. Some act exclusively on the policy of opposition. Everything I'd do would be wrong. However, I am pleased and welcome the actions of the Master of the Jewish who said a day ago that it does not matter who is at the top, it is important that we all somehow tackle the epidemic together in a way that ultimately we can be the winners. Now, here's a little something about the actions themselves. Much has already been done in the original five so-called anti-Korona packages, so in this sixth there is an extension of some measures, some measures are being reinstated, and there are also completely new ones. It is very important that, at this stage, when we are actually all afraid of what will happen to jobs, what will happen to the economy with the employees, in some ways we now also have this package to raise the maximum amount of partial reimbursement to pay the average wage. The new measure, which is very important, partly reimburses certain fixed costs, because indeed they do have companies that simply do not. It is a very important measure because we have a school at a distance to provide additional resources for information technology for distance learning, subsidisation of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social protection. That seems like a really important measure to me. Much has been said about not paying for kindergartens. Students won't be paying student homes now either, because this cost will go to the state's expense. In these difficult times, when our entire system is burdened with health care, we have achieved that parents can stay with a child in hospitals until they are 14. And as a refugee in Europe, this government does not speak or write only when a sportsman wins a competition and everyone is competing who will be the first to congratulate these people, and this government is actually working for it, and financing protective equipment is like a unique measure in Europe that we find in this package. However, it was said that there were also a number of intruders in these packages. I can't agree with that. If someone's not in a good time, of course they can't be intruders. But you know, priests are people, too. I hope there is no one in this country who will say that priests have nothing to look for in this country and that it is wrong to help them. Or maybe you don't think the virus can reach them. So it is absolutely right to help this group too. After all, they also help a large circle of people. In some ways, Christianity is also the largest civil society in all of us. And there are many who, of course, help themselves in these difficult times, when the tribulation is great, to make it easier for them to cope. I think this package is good. But I believe he didn't save everything. The next package has already been announced. Above all, it seems important to me that, given how various amendments and everything else were coming, the call for us to try to get together in the 7th package in the National Assembly so much that we look at any amendments earlier, that you all work together before and that we are looking for the best solutions, of course, for citizens and citizens. But something else has been said before. That we have an intruder in this national assembly, and that is what he said, I have just noticed, my fellow Koprivc, who is not only in the language of the intruder, but I think he has you elsewhere, among other things, that he has stated that he is appealing to democratic parties in this national assembly. To those who are democratic. You know, those are hard words. Regardless of who he was referring to, in this National Assembly all parties were democratically elected in democratic elections, they were elected democratically. Indeed, he did not say that we have customers based on a non-democratic way. That's what he forgot to say. But I hope we're moving away from those times. Above all, I really call on everyone once again, let's help the measures be implemented. Let's help health personnel by not supporting things in a country that are even illegal now, but by doing everything we can to get through this crisis as soon as possible. However, there is some light, and perhaps at the beginning of next year we can all be more optimistic and citizens and citizens less stressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Soniboy Prince has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u180	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to start this debate with some facts about the situation in the Republic of Slovenia at the end of November 2020. A thousand and more people a day. Over a thousand 200 citizens in hospital treatments. The units of intensive therapy are pumping through the seams. Ten dead a day. Health and DSO employees are on the verge of capacity. Most health services are not accessible to citizens and citizens. Funeral companies are running out of room to keep the dead. This is, dear colleagues, some of the facts that describe the situation in this country these days are the end of November 2020. And after eight months of effective action by the government of Janez Janša, as we are now listening to, I think, five, six hours by coalition parties. A good eight months after the outbreak was declared and after five so-called PKPs, the figures and facts say that the measures so far have been insufficient, untimely, and that after the announcement of this famous victory and the flights of these aircraft in May, by which we have marked this, it is said, victory over the covid that we have done well. In this debate, five or six hours, as far as the package is concerned, there have been several claims that would be worth the controversy, but I allow each eye to have its own painter, each defending its own, and some would only be answered. I don't know, colleague Pogačnik mentioned in his debate that the government is taking action against, frontal, effective, and also indicating how many millions the government has allocated to individual groups so far under these CAPs. Here, in fact, I fully agree with him in this second part of the distribution of funds. The number around the money that has now been invested and the day in these PKPs is enormous. Unfortunately, in fact, success cannot be measured by the amount of money that has been spent. If we fail to succeed in the basic problem that we have, this is the management and successful measures to control the spread of coronavirus, it is said, until we have successfully put out the fire, we will only deal with the consequences of this fire. And these consequences are the CAP. That's probably how PKP7, 8, 9, 10, if we're doing basic activity, we're not going to be successful. I hope that's clear. My colleague Montenegro, from New Slovenia, did not forget to mention earlier that warning about the number of deaths and measures for the economy do not go together in any way. Of course they're going. Because they're in close connection with what I said. If we are successful in fighting measures, these PKPs will not be needed. The economy operated normally until March as long as the conditions for doing so were in place. Not with us, I'm talking all over the world. Now I don't know if we're really that successful after the facts I've mentioned. I don't think so. But if you think otherwise in the coalition, okay, I do, and that's your opinion. In this respect, I note that this package was adopted again without the inclusion of some social groups, which represent a good part of our population. This led to a social dialogue within the Economic and Social Council, which this country has established in the past as an instrument for communication, exchange of views and, in essence, an alternative to some labour unrest, strikes, street problems. Civilisational achievement. I don't know which of this government isn't clear. Involvement of all, including trade unions, in the procedures for taking measures would, in my firm belief, lead to significantly better results than we are currently recording. At least in the social field. And believe me, I've worked in unions for a while, that if anyone has a real social picture in this country, they're unions. As I said, instead of some legitimate dialogue whose guardian should be the Ministry of Labour, the family, the minister is slightly ignoring him. He also boasted earlier because he was their minister, it would be good to say that he had forgotten to convene a meeting for this package, that the Economic and Social Council, which is prescribed, was not around these packages. While the Secretary of State told us on Monday on the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons that a committee had been convened for, I don't know, justice, and I don't know what, he forgot to say that he had been called upon to trade unions. Not to mention that a Member who holds as one of the best members in the history of a party in that country does not, in fact, allow the presence of trade unions on the Committee on Finance. This is also the case, respected colleagues and colleagues, in Slovenia at the end of November 2020. That I'm not just going to criticize or I don't think that's a criticism. I've given more or less a few facts. Now a few more words about the measures themselves. This package also contains quite a few good measures. So I am pleased or welcome the extension of the waiting area and the related increase in the ceiling of the waiting period of €890 to the minimum wage. Now, by the way, both measures were proposed by the Social Democrats in July. But as the brothers in the South would say, "a little late or still," so I'm glad you included that in this package. What I would have warned in this regard is that, before we started dealing with these CAPs, I think in the second, I warned the Minister about what entrepreneurs are warning about today, and that is that there is an increasing problem when companies have to invest before they get paid back. For both packages, at least waiting at home and also working hours, the deadline for granting the subsidy and replacing it is about 45 days, and I think the payment is 90 days. It would probably be good to think in this direction about the system, as they have in Germany, to introduce some flat-rate, and later to make some calculations, the actual state of affairs with these claims. I know this because many of the smaller craftsmen in particular turn to us with these comments. I also welcome some of the steps the government has taken in this CAP in the area of rewards for working in grey zones beyond this need for an epidemic to be declared. Furthermore, the claim that a 65% supplement from the collective agreements they have and this supplement to work in these grey zones is not excluded from each other. In practice in the field we had quite a few problems because it was different from the institution to the institution. What I would say in this regard is that it does not seem fair, however, that you have left those so-called support services behind in these measures. I think there have already been some debates on this subject, these are mainly cleaners, chefs, all those who are also part of this system, which also face a lack of disease, and who, at the end of the day, also make sure that things work. I'm not saying that these are essentially professions that are somewhere on the level of the minimum or some euro over. I also welcome the reintroduction of this basic monthly income for self-employed persons, but unfortunately you also did not include in this package that group of fine-tuning workers working on the basis of copyright and business contracts. I am also very pleased with this last measure that you have also heard the warnings of the economy and that in this package you are also proposing measures to ensure partial coverage of fixed costs for the affected companies, although in my opinion they might be a little more courageous, but okay. I know you're trying, and I don't envy you. I've mentioned it a few times. It would also be inappropriate if you were smart enough to know whether or not we all know the solutions that will shorten all this agony that we are in, not just us, but the whole world. But let's be realistic about this. Let's not be great, I don't know how much praise we hear when families meet with the dead every day, when many lose jobs, when the situation in the country is true, if it hasn't been, today is not easy. This praise, how successful we are, let us save for when we are somehow closer to the one already heard a few times today, lights at the end of the tunnel. I'm not even going to mention the situation at the DSO, we meet them through when you open the radio, the TV, we listen to nothing that's nice. In presenting this package today, the Prime Minister said in his introduction, I think that this was mainly a flight to the opposition, if the invitation is still valid, join in the I do not know which partnership. Is it a condition for me to sign a document with the Prime Minister and take your suggestions into account? I seriously doubt it, my respectable colleagues and colleagues. They were all smoothly rejected by the opposition. Well, correct me, if he was anywhere, you've probably taken into account a little bit. Even today they have been mentioned many times, even in this part you have not, I would say, failed your tradition, that you have also included in this law some underlings, which, of course, do not belong to me. This time, already mentioned several times today, you tried without meeting the conditions, to allow the multimillion-dollar education business to continue with the client colleague and a friend of the Prime Minister. What has already been mentioned today, however, I think that before me colleague Žibert's mention, priests, I myself have no problem with helping priests, because they too are likely to be reduced in their detoxified activities, even if you have noticed that there is a problem here, I have no problem helping all the groups affected. What I find to be a large part of these reasons for failure to manage the virus is some relationship, an inadequate relationship, whether it is communication or not, and ultimately, measures that in fact are based on some repressive and penal policy led by that government. I will not again point out that the Prime Minister is essentially fighting with three-quarters of the country, citizens, citizens on Twitter. You are also doing this in this PKP6 with this astronomical increase in punishment, where you are again trying to punish other thinkers. I don't know, I was firmly convinced that there would be an inclusive policy, a different way of communicating, that we wouldn't work harder to fight this country. If we were not fighting each other, the results would be significantly better. I don't know what you want with this? To become North Korea? That we would all applaud the great leader and be smiling, how good was everything in this country? Is that what you want? I don't know. I'll finish. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I firmly believe that we will not be successful before we enter this society, even more integration, less exclusion, more respect and tolerance into the work of the National Assembly. I firmly believe that then the results will be better for the benefit of all of us than they are today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Elena Zavadlav Usaj has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u182	Thank you for your word, President. Very well greeted Minister, all others, Members and Members of Parliament. I will start by taking measures in proportion, given the extent to which they occur in our environment. And not only in our environment, but also more broadly, it is said in the European Union and in the world. It seems to me that we are talking to one planet, the other with another, as if we have so many infections in our country alone, and that in other countries they are not meeting at all such an increase as no one expected in this other wave. That's why the government couldn't have known what was going to happen in the second wave. The measures therefore increased proportionately according to the number of infected persons. With regard to infections in the homes of older citizens, however, she always accepted whatever she accepted on the basis of what she said, and not what they remembered. The opposition's claims to prevent infection and the government's taking certain measures too late are likely to be of interest to you, and I can therefore argue that you are deceiving that the number of infections could be reduced. No, that's not true. It is not true because the rapid tests now available have shown that they are not actually 100% reliable, which means that someone who is infected can also be tested without being infected. Or the other way around. At the same time – how many infections were introduced into homes in this way because the infected did not show signs of covido-19 infection? In fact, one third of what I can tell you about our House of Pensioners in Novi Gorica, because today data was given that one third of the infected people who had been affected by covid were symptomatic. According to this information, it is difficult to say that any other expert opinion could infect the introduction of infections. Sooner or later, infections would come to our homes. I would like to point out below that, as a mother, this payment measure is particularly important to me in full for the parental co-existence with a sick child in a healthcare institution up to and including the age of 14 years. We know the distress parents face when they have a child in the hospital and have no payment for health care, so this is a cure. At the same time, it would restore what the predecessors have already pointed out to me that the measures were effective both for small and micro enterprises and for the population. It has turned out that the waiting-for-work measure and the short-term measure have been very welcome in fact for large and small enterprises, so it is not right that you are deceiving the argument that measures are not effective for small and micro-enterprises. Many of the economists have probably also told you that it is essential for them to maintain the company. Of course, it has proved, and this package also improves to help them by paying and covering fixed costs, because one part of the payment of salaries and contributions is the other payment of fixed costs. Fixed costs have now been a major problem for businesses, and the government has listened to companies. At the same time, which has been repeatedly exposed to previous anti-korona packages, rent payments. The government has listened to those who have business premises owned by both the state and local communities, in fact they will be able to have partial or full exemption from rent. Of course, you can't expect the state to resort to rent when they serve and actually this is their income, because it would cause damage on the other hand. It does not claim that the state did not listen to young people and self-employed people. Young people have already received a 150-euro payout in previous packages and have also listened to children, saying to students and students that they will receive warm meals. But you can rest assured. Even so, warm meals have been given to those families and those children who come from such families who are in distress before. Because local communities also listened to these families, for in local environments they had a clear picture of those families, and local communities had a connection with schools and children were not without a warm child at the time. Of course, now it is so much more welcome because the costs of hot meals will be covered by the state budget. I would also like to point out the link between self-employed and religious workers. It has been said many times that the state did not listen to the self-employed. She listened to the self-employed as did the others who were affected by the epidemic. Religious officials are also by adopting a government decree, since the government has by decree prohibited the implementation of religious rituals from 16 October 2020. And that's why they were equal to self-employed because they can't do their jobs. And this separates not only the government here for certain religious servants, but for religious servants of registered churches and other religious communities. It says it covers and bypasses everything. So it's not a plant either, and it's not just for a particular group of people. Then I would like to point out that even healthcare workers, indeed, are burned out, and probably every one of you has also found yourself, if you have actually been in a working relationship for years now, you have probably already stumbled upon a period in your career when you too burned and burned because of excessive stress. At least I hope you've met. I'm on my own. And then every effort must be made to do what needs to be done. Medical personnel are aware of the situation in which we are in need, as well as all those who can come to their aid at this time, as we have heard many times today, volunteers. That is why the government has not forgotten about the healthcare staff and has paid them, and I will give you the amount paid by 19 November for the hazard allowance and special burdens during the epidemic of a little over 200 million and will reimburse the programme to the healthcare provider of a little over 100 million. Apparently, she's been helping them in their programming work as well. So sometimes you have to move back a little bit and not just bump, but look at what the actual situation is and what the actual numbers are. I would now touch upon the issue of issuing fines for offenders if those at these so - called meetings were to be swallowed up, which seems to be the most regrettable of all. But you know for yourself that no one will get a fine if they respect the government's actions. Should the measures be taken into account and respected, if the offender is mistaken for the first time or accidentally found himself in a certain area, he will certainly receive only a reminder. Warning, we know that he may have been pronounced in a misdemeanor procedure. But the one who is already a known offender, and I don't see any problem with why he wouldn't be immersed, why he wouldn't pay, because that violates what the government has accepted. It's probably back to protecting certain people the opposition would like to protect. We all know which ones. We all know, given what has already been said at the meetings we had in the past days, the Committee on Internal Affairs concerning the protests, so that I will not start this topic here. But it's only right that everyone gets what's coming to him. To conclude, I would just like to say that despite all the efforts made by the opposition to tarnish the government's work, to show that the government is not doing well and that people are criticising the government and how nothing is good, which it accepts, and that it is doing harm to our country, it does not. Recent polls by Parsifal have shown that the government enjoys the support of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and this support is growing. Since the government is working for us, the inhabitants and the inhabitants, and for the economy, to get through this epidemic as quickly as possible and to return to the established tracks as possible and to take care of the regrowth and development in all areas, it is said that we will make sure that we ourselves, as citizens, do something for our environment and that we will also do something to raise gross social product. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I see there's still an interest in the debate, so I'm going through the list. Applications for the debate shall be made. The word is Edward Paulic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u184	Thank you, President, for your word. I'm just going to comment for a moment on some of the discussions of my colleagues that I've heard. In one of the discussions, it was pointed out that payments to businesses and entrepreneurs were not delayed. I have to say that we get a lot of calls, a lot of e-mails, where companies complain that payments are late after months or more. More than once, we heard the call “let's go together”. But if we look at the situation with this last law when the law was introduced into the National Assembly relatively late, if we look at the situation on yesterday's parental committee, when it was put in, we have heard, more than 200 amendments, simply my call back is: “Send us the law in time”. It was then said that the Government was taking measures in proportion. If we look at the situation in the country, the health situation, the situation in the DSO, maybe my idea is that the measures could be different, faster. Then it was heard that the government had taken the measures proposed by the profession. If you may know the government’s statement, he declared that the profession always tells only its professional views, never decides the profession. This means that the policy then takes these proposals into consideration by the profession or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u185	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u186	Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye. Now I'm gonna start there when my coalition colleague is done. Efforts by the opposition to tarnish this government. I have to say it's not like that. If the opposition has proposed more than 200 amendments to the government or to the national assembly to improve this bill, the defamation of the government is indeed a serious problem in our country. We want to help, we want to work together, we want to improve the proposal for a law that will, to the greatest extent, mitigate the negative health, social and economic consequences of this virus, which we all feel. True, we have heard in this law a number of subversives or some areas that do not belong in antichrist packages. But I'm not even gonna talk about it anymore because there's been a lot of talk today. The second wave deeply interferes with the material and social situation of the population, especially those who were already at risk of poverty prior to the outbreak, low income households in rented apartments, holiday workers, workers, both young and socially disadvantaged students, especially homeless and others who urgently need help. Unfortunately, there is no talk in this law about these groups. However, it is not possible to overlook here that this is a number of good measures that the economy absolutely needs. But these measures are taking place too slowly, and I'm not going to talk about transparency. The procedures for obtaining funds are pooled, we are told by the users or those to whom these measures are intended. Acquisition procedures should be as simple and as quickly as possible to achieve the greatest effect, but measures are being implemented much later and for many unfortunately too late. Service activities are already closing down their activities because they are no longer able to raise funds, their own resources, loans, leasers can no longer afford to raise funds to cover costs. The fact is that the government, by its decrees, has closed down certain activities. This proposal for the law of these groups, which is facing a severe crisis, does not fully address it. I'm going to touch on some fixed costs that only pay off good two months or more, and a lot of these paces don't last. In particular, I would like to highlight some groups of cosmetics, innkeepers, pedicures, hairdressers, shoedressers, tailors who have only a few employees. When they could somehow cover the costs after the first wave, they could no longer do so in this second wave and shut down the activity. And yes, the government has escaped an epidemic from control, allowing 20 to 30% of infections per day. We are in the health field by infection at the very top of the European Union. Death is also at the top. In the economic field, businesses still operating suffer from absenteeism due to quarantine, child protection. An analysis by the National Institute for Public Health shows that the virus is currently spreading in working environments. Yes, but where else to go, because only working environments are where the process takes place, because associations and activities are not available. Even a lot of employers, I have to tell you, don't understand the pressures of employees, especially young mothers, who are looking for solutions to the crisis when they should stay at home, because their school-bound children, at least the first triads, are not yet completely independent to be able to work remotely or even be eight hours and more alone. At the same time, their diet is insufficient or a warm meal needs to be taken care of. All children must have a warm meal, not just those in vulnerable groups. Sadly, though, we do not recognize the government of those who are at high risk of saving lives and caring for the most vulnerable. For six months, they have been unselfishly concerned and extremely self - sacrificing, and they are on the verge of doing so. On 1 October, the Health and Social Welfare Union sent a message with a letter of the Call for Help, which we can no longer do. And also employees who are not completely visible or who do not work directly with covid patients who do not work in red and gray areas, but are indispensable, without them, would not in fact be cared for by patients. These are cleaners, chefs, wigs, technical staff, who are also very burdensome and their work is invaluable and essential for this system of health and social work. Here's where you forget about these individuals. Let me finish. Opinions cannot be improved or reduced by infection. We can do this only by actions, and people expect these actions from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u187	Replica, colleague Elena Zavadlav Ushaj.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u188	Thank you. Just a brief replica of what was initially said about cooperation. On several occasions, the Prime Minister offered to cooperate with all opposition parties. And if your cooperation is making amendments, it's more difficult work than cooperation. That is why I do not agree with what you have already said several times, but at the same time I would like to point out that you prefer to work more closely and constructively for the good, to swim out of this epidemic, to get as few people as possible affected, to work with yourself, to establish a KUL coalition with those of you who were already together, and now you are not going back together. Why? For you to rule. There's no other way.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u189	Colleague Elena and everyone else, I propose that we stick to those substantive procedural proposals, as they are considered by the Rules of Procedure. That's to say where you were misunderstood, not to use this time to share your readings. My friend Nick Prebil, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u190	Madam President, I ask that you explain to your colleague what a replica is in the rules of procedure. That's the first thing.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u191	I just did, yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u192	Secondly, tell her that if she doesn't know what parliamentary constitutional democracy is, where we are today, and what it means to make amendments, then we have a serious problem, we do have a serious problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u193	My fellow Beater, I did this and, in fact, with your procedural self-expression, you're also kind of making your own perception of the procedural proposal. I propose, colleagues and colleagues, that we stick to procedural and replication in the manner set out in the Rules of Procedure. The word is Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! With the six anti-korona package that we have on the table today, we certainly want and follow solidarity, we follow and want to keep the social state, jobs, and distance learning, so that it is possible to maintain publicly accessible health care. The anti-Korona package number 6 also responds in the field of work, working conditions, social protection. What I think is very important to the functioning of the country itself. And let me just say something that seems very important to me. Since I have listened to today's debates, all I have to do is answer that kindergartens in our country are not closed for kindergartens to work. Of course, they are designed for those whose parents cannot stay at home. If they stay at home, parents are also provided for, they get a refund on their income. However, when I checked for kindergartens on my own, about 40% of children still attend kindergartens. But it's interesting to know that every day there are more of these children in kindergartens. So it's not true that we closed up kindergartens and that kids don't go to kindergarten. What I think is very important is this, and I believe that the opposition is proud here, too, that in the proposal of the Health and Health Insurance Act, the solution is to increase the age of a child from 5 to 14 years, with whom one of the parents can stay free of charge in the health service. At the same time, parents will be detained at a time when they co-exist with a child in a health care institution and are therefore entitled to 80 % of the basic salary for co-habitation. The measure shall apply until 31 December 2021. I believe we all wanted to do this, but, look, in this antikoronic package number 6 this is regulated. I think that together with the opposition we can be pleased here that we have saved those who are actually the weakest in our society. I can say with regard to the Labour Relations Act in this area, to simplify the application of work at home, as employers at the Labour Inspectorate will provide only data electronically on the employer, data relating to the worker who will work at home, and the potential risk of working at home. We know that there are a lot of infections in the workplace, so I welcome and call on employers who have the opportunity to allow workers to work at home, to use this measure, which is ultimately suitable and good for the business itself and for employees. If I move forward, I can also say that I welcome the economic measures and the coverage of fixed costs, which means that companies will also perhaps be a little easier to cope with these difficult times. I cannot help but say that anti-korona package number 6 provides additional financial incentives or resources for protection, rescue and assistance. Involved members of civil protection who perform tasks in a non-professional manner, called upon citizens through the competent information centre and volunteers carrying out protection, rescue and assistance tasks shall be subject to an exposure allowance of up to EUR 30 per day, which shall be exempt from the payment of taxes and contributions. It seems to me that this is a very important information that civil protection helps in the field, helps local communities, helps public institutions, homes for older citizens who face an epidemic in the institution itself. Here I think it is important to understand that civil protection is very helpful, and I think we recognize them in this package. Of course, temporary measures in the area of agriculture, forestry and nutrition are also extremely important, as agricultural operators and operators of complementary activities on the farm, which, as a result of the covid virus, will be able to continue to do so. It seems to me that it is very important in terms of self-sustainment, that we also give encouragement and help to those who actually produce food. What I think is very important is that the operators of hunting sites are exempt from the payment of the annual concession fee for 2020 of 50%, or the share of the revenue of the Republic of Slovenia's budget in accordance with the law governing game and hunting. The Ministry responsible for Wildlife and Hunting provides the Slovenian Institute of Forests with compensation for the lost revenue of hunting grounds with a special purpose. There is a lot of good in this antikorona package, including free warm meals for students and students up to the third income class. This government is solving the situation, and I am sure it will be in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u195	Thank you very much. The word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u196	A nice greeting to everyone on my behalf! I will refer to the predecessor, the government's solution to the situation, but the fact that this government has stumbled to this threshold of infection is practically alone, because of its failure to act, because of its failure to respect the profession and many others. But I'm gonna drop this today because I've said the same thing over and over again. Many times today have heard words about how no one has been released, but when someone has been released, it has been done after the accident, or in some ways it is difficult to forget everything. I will process one social group that has been released practically from all antikorona packages despite the opposition's warnings, and they are also released today. And these are young people. I think this government is deliberately missing this generation. True, you have given 150 euros a single amount to all students, and this is where the story with young people ends for you. And I'm going to tell you some statistics so we can understand how big the social group is. And I limit myself only to a social group that works through student service. About 100,000 students and students work in Slovenia, which means about 63% of students and students. For 40% of all of these, this is the main source of income. By comparison, let's say 14% are doing it in the ministry, it's an activity that we've completely shut down. On average, they earn 200 euros a month, but this is only the average. There is statistics only for the decline of student work for March and April; I did not get other information from publicly available information. And the decline in March and April only offered student work was 90%. By 50%, there was a decline in the volume of student work. These are the numbers. And this is a very large social group that this government has completely deliberately released from all packages. When these people finish their work through the student service, they go as far as possible on business contracts, copyright contracts, fixed-term contracts, maybe for a few months they get a contract. These are the people that are most easily forgiven when the service activity is closed. And left them to themselves. Instead, this social group has been charged by the Prime Minister on national television that young people are guilty of infections. The government speaker has repeatedly attributed the deterioration of the epidemiological situation to irresponsible young people. For a wider understanding of solidarity or intergenerational solidarity and co-existence, a balance must also be sought between burdens being evenly distributed between the older and younger generations. You left the elderly in nursing homes the way you left them, and you let the younger generation out of helping them economically. The fact is, these same young people are cut short for socializing, for entertainment, for a life span that is very important in an individual's entire life. If you want, it's the first love, joy, fun, discos. Okay. It is understandable that young people will either give up or renounce it in order to protect another age group, the elderly, or to control an epidemiological picture in this country. That makes perfect sense. But it doesn't make sense that the government in all the packages is completely missing out on this social group. 150 euros for all of these, 40% of which was the main source of student work, is little or nothing. And that's the problem. I do not see how we can lead this country forward if a social group is deliberately omitted, which will bear the burden of the debt that this government is doing today. It is very bad to write to every country that leaves its future, which are young, left to themselves. And if anything helps, because in the PKP1 we have already appealed and made amendments to this topic, you have also received an invitation from the Marjan Šarca Group of Members of the Parliament a few days ago to the government to start dealing with this topic. And if anything helps, from this place please, dear government, even if you think that young people do not go to elections and are not your election base, deal with them, because this is the future of this country. If we do not take care of them, we are thus on the road when there is no more intergenerational solidarity and there is a conflict between generations that is unnecessary, because modern societies must build on solidarity between social groups. We young ones care for the elderly because we are aware of what they have done for us. Somewhere in here is a policy that needs to find balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Iva Dimic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Let me just say that it's not forgotten about the young, if that's what you're saying. Article 133 also speaks of protective equipment for students and students in the field of health and social security in order to allow young people free of charge so as not to pay or charge student homes. We know what it's like to have students in student homes – even in the summer months, if they're not in college homes, they have to pay their rent. This isn't charged for crown time now. Young people, students are also allowed a warm meal. So you didn't forget about the young. Of course, thank you, and I am sure that young people will also be considered in the next package. You've heard today that the PKP7 is preparing. We monitor and resolve matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Once again, I appeal to you to make the replica a replica. The word is Tadej Shuštar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u200	Thank you for your word. Like all previous PKPs, the sixth anti-Korona package touches a lot of laws. We have heard many deceptions and lies by the opposition Members, so I would like to explain some of the measures that some obviously do not understand and I do not know what they are reading. I didn't notice any articles about forced labour in my marriage. However, we have a change which provides that the obligation to accept employment shall begin immediately upon admission to the employment institution and not until three months after the entry of the unemployment record. In addition, it is amended that the obligation to accept employment no longer requires that there are no persons in the unemployment register for whom this employment would be appropriate. The obligation is not limited to individual sectors and is valid in the entire labour market. Now I want to know where the talk about forced labour is. The conditions for sending unemployed persons to work shall also be released so that there is no condition that employment is defined by the conditions of employment in the employment plan and that the conditions of employment are met for at least half-time or that the job is not more than three hours away by public transport from home to work in both directions and that it corresponds to a maximum level of lower education of the proposed person. Stimulating the unemployed to be reintegrated into the labour market is thus easier, as with fewer conditions more people are able to meet job requirements. We know what statistics are that people who are longer in the employment institution are more difficult to include in the labour market. They get used to getting social assistance and still survive for the week. I still have a pretty lively experience with unemployment status. I was at the Employment Service for almost a year, and at that time I did not receive any assignment for employment. Even though I sent almost a hundred job requests, I didn't get you, but I finally took the cab driver's job. I didn't think it was an honor to do this work, even though I finished my biology degree. Among my colleagues, I even had doctors of science, pharmacists, and even a well - known director. No work is dishonest and I see no reason why anyone would object to this proposal. Some have become too accustomed to doing things their way, and if their wish is not fulfilled, they will not work and will prefer to receive social support. Many supported the proposed article, which would encourage people to return to work. With each work, you can gain important experience, meet new people, and perhaps you will be able to get a new job through this work. That's how it happened to me when I took my future boss in a cab without knowing. Any measure that will encourage people to join the labour market to improve their self-image, to join society and create something with their work, I will gladly support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I need to respond to some discussions now in this second advertisement. First, Mrs. Dimic. You say that you have provided young people with protective equipment in this law, in a socially and economically oriented law. Everything nice and good, great, but in LMŠ we talk about the loss of income from student work, with which many young people, students or students survive because they come from socially weak families. Should they go to the store with protective equipment? Do you want them to give up the goods? Please! How much more do we know how to read the laws, colleague Tadej, and we have read this law in great detail, so I will now respond to Mrs Zavadlav Ušaj's debate. You have said that criminal provisions provide for sanctions for those who violate government decisions on the collection of people. It's not just that. In this law, you propose or regulate a new offence, a crime that will sanction the very call for something. That's what we've been alerting the opposition to. I am very sincerely pleased and especially welcome the efforts of my colleague Janje Slug, who, in my view, is somehow the most responsible for the fact that after three days of persuasion and caution, the coalition also listened to us in the opposition when we said that it was violated, where it incriminated the call of someone, excessive, unconstitutional and constitutional democracy, as Slovenia is, unacceptable. I appreciate Mrs Slug's efforts even more because she went into this fight, if I may put it this way, despite the fact that her fellow Member was on the Finance Committee the day before yesterday, when we discussed this article, very, very passionately advocated the need to prosecute influenzars for their spoken or written words. Of course, it is necessary to stress here, so I am actually announcing that this amendment, which you have now proposed in the coalition, has not yet been adopted. That is why, in my first implementation, I have so strongly opposed this article, this new offence and I am pleased that, during today's debate, an amendment has come to pass, which is now exempting these calls from sanctioning. While it is true that these increased fines remain for the punishments of the organiser of the assembly, it is also necessary to say here that this amendment is now sanctioning the assembly organisers with the distinction that it will only be punished and that it will be proven that, as a result of this gathering, it has caused a particular serious threat to public health. And that's what I've been pointing out in my debate. This, in fact, no longer violates the foundations of criminal law in force in democracy, and that is that it only punishes a person when the prohibited consequence arises when it causes it, not for the call. And again. In the LMŠ we welcome this amendment, we are really glad that you have listened to us at least here and that you have gathered so much power that somehow by submitting this amendment you have admitted your mistake, your respected colleagues of the coalition, and this confusion with this new offense to call people somehow ended. Thank you very much for listening to us at least once in the opposition.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u203	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u204	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. And I'm just going to refer to Mrs Tina Hefferle. In fact, there is a constant problem with these PKPs, which we receive in the National Assembly, that we constantly get inside some of the things that we then fight about, literally frown on, put each of us in an ideological position that really does not belong to this PKP. I'm just gonna keep saying that until I'm sick. You'll just have to understand that. I've spoken to people myself, I've never thought about it, but I'm talking here in the National Assembly about what people tell me and what people ask me to do as their representative here in Parliament. Earlier, Mr Šircelj, I will be very interested in saying that it is necessary to protect myself, and I do not know why this has been repeated, which has also been the most disturbing to me personally, to protect people's health. Of course, it is necessary to protect people's health, but it is even more necessary to protect patients who are in DSOs who are in hospitals that are in health homes. And people give you the most insight into this dual morality. Let us leave now these fines, which are being discussed so widely and widely today. They're really exaggerated, that's the first thing people see and react to. Second of all, the problem is this government, which often acts like a princess on a bean. Now I'm gonna tell you why. Whenever someone comes up with a proposal that is not entirely of your own taste, you automatically reject it or then you actually discredit it so that it really works, like it's just a grain of peas. You're insulted a lot then. Even before you have explained these PKPs or amendments and also articles, I myself could talk about various media from my point of view, and let's leave them now, but they are right-wing media, because it doesn't matter to me literally, I will say, to my family space, to my personal space and to discredit and discredit my family. If I went in the opposite direction now, I would demand that these media be sanctioned if you already intend to sanction those who would oppose these government proposals, which, however, must be recognised, are not all bad. They're not all bad. But it is true that what is constantly appearing as a laymot that those proposals that are bad actually stumble the good ones or literally betray them. When you spoke earlier, I think Mrs Zavadlav Usaj, and I will not be talking about her now, because she is not here in the hall, but she said something very interesting about these quick tests. That they don't actually work the way they should. See, that's the problem, even in the government coalition, I have a feeling, you're not listening or you're only listening to one. But sometimes I feel like you don't have different opinions, which I think is a shame, because you are a government coalition, but I think you're also very colorful, different, and you could also take a more thorough and more direct stand on the side of this or that. As for the weak or the weakest. When we're back on these fines and these criminal fines. In fact, those who have the least will suffer the greatest harm that happens many times. It happens quite often that someone, let's say, accidentally causes some kind of damage or is reluctant to actually break an issue, because even so many times, you know, it's one problem, and I think it's not just this government, but in general our society. We don't know how many times to explain to people, let's say these are measures that are designed to infect the covid-19 virus or anything else. I know a lot of people who already had a case like this that they accidentally broke, took off their mask or anything else and didn't want to do it on purpose. And because they didn't know the decrees. Let's say one doesn't have Internet, one doesn't even know how to use the Internet, I'm talking about the elderly. This is where things get more complicated again. You also keep talking about how to help and how to help them, in fact it is a constant problem since we already have PKP6. And I believe that with regard to the situation we have, that you can't get it all into one PKP, because let's face it, I don't think it's working. But still, given that we already have PKP6 and that in fact some things are constantly repeating and we are constantly reminding ourselves of those things, it has become, I will say, disturbing, even when it comes to young people, as Jerca explained earlier. And even when it comes to holiday jobs. You have previously interpreted very vehemently that entrepreneurs strongly support the proposals of the CAP6 or the CAP in general. See, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia actually writes something else. In fact, one third of entrepreneurs or craftsmen, such as the November 13 declaration, are considering closing down their businesses or trades. It is said that everything is not as ideal as it seems or as it sounds. I still expect it to go this way. The fact is that covid-19 or coronavirus, which we have already had before on the Committee on Finance, in fact defines and also focuses everything that is happening or whatever is being accepted, all we have to deal with now is this infamous covid-19. And it will also have implications for the budget and have consequences in the economy, it has consequences in social life. And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now that's another matter, I'll be back to square one. Look, a lot of times people don't just tell you that you've done something wrong, they tell you that you haven't done anything about certain things. I'll just take one case. I personally did not go anywhere this year on a journey from Slovenia. From the naked principle, because I wanted to be in solidarity with all the other citizens who remained in Slovenia. What happened? Croatian borders open and in fact, more or less traveled to Croatia by those who had a weekend there who could afford a variety of vacations there. A lot of people who don't have or who could just be labeled poor or lower middle class have stayed in Slovenia. And then you again impose upon these people various demands and imprisonment in congregations and similar things. I would also expect you as a government to admit some matter that you have done something wrong and apologize for something. And I don't expect you to do that on a regular basis. But I think it's best if one thing is done wrong, then apologize for it. That's the way it is. I'll tell you again what I said last time. The situation is very worrisome, even after the DSO. The health crisis does indeed dominate, including the economic crisis, the social crisis and I think that this is why we need more serious strategies and some more serious solutions to our future. In fact, you will be two generations that will suffer the most damage or have already suffered the most harm in this coronary virus, young people, children and the oldest or elderly. I must very much agree with Mrs Jerco Korča, who has explained about young people. In fact, these youths will have to take care of us, or they will have to deal with these consequences of the Coronavirus. And if we do not take care of them, who will actually care for us? We won't have any intergenerational dialogue then. And there's something else that's interesting. Last night was just an accident at the store, and one very interesting occasion made me feel better this afternoon. The mother and the child came by accident, physically, by measure, and I asked the little girl how she felt at home now. And she said, "Eh, it doesn't matter. I want to go to school with my classmates as soon as possible.” I think that now this government needs to start working more seriously in this direction to get our children or your children to school, because I personally don't have them to give them the opportunity to give them hope, some future. Look, we'll be patient, whatever we are, and we will be. There is an urgent need for elders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u206	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Experts at the Faculty of Biotechnical Technology in Ljubljana have calculated that the mass of the active virus, which is currently in Slovenia, is one gram. One gram. It is one gram of this terrible substance that causes terrible and terrible grief. A crisis, the largest in the second world sea. Yes, nothing is ideal, dear colleague Bostian. Our lives have completely changed. Totally. Unfortunately, some people have terrible problems, and I can only feel sorry for them. And once again, I thank all those who are humble, patient, patient and respectful of the measures recommended by the medical profession. We can have different concepts in solving this crisis, this is democracy. The profession is one thing. The profession is one thing. In fact, it is the profession that dictates measures to the government or to the texts of the articles of the laws that we adopt. We have a case of limitation of fundamental human rights at the time of this coronation. This year the world was surprised by the so-called coronary crisis, which has affected many areas, so some call it a syndrome, not just a pandemic. States have taken specific measures, which in some cases have also restricted human rights. In this regard, a number of legal issues are essential, which rights and when, in the Member States at all, are applicable, when they can be restricted and under what conditions. In practice, different human rights are often affected. But in our opinion, according to Members of New Slovenia, the first and highest priority is the right to life, to health. In this context, I would like to continue with regard to Article 59, and I can say that we have listened to the zeal of the debates of our colleague, Tina, although I have to admit that I expected that, as a lawyer, she would describe more correctly the original text of Article 59, the current text in the amended bill and also the amendment proposed by the coalition groups. It's not just about sanctioning, it's about repressing the one who's calling for unification. Because here, if I understand correctly, she made a dot. It is about sanctioning the one who calls for unification now that the epidemic has been declared. And we know that bringing people together is fantastically helpful in spreading infections. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you, among other things, of Article 177 of the Penal Code, which speaks of the transmission of communicable diseases and of sanctions up to 8 years in prison. Now we have reformulated this amendment, unifying ourselves to sanction those who are the organizers of the summits at the time of the epidemic. If anyone opposes it, then I don't know, then he's rooting for infections to spread as much as possible. How else, for God's sake, do I understand that?Oh, my God! I can't. Some inaccuracies regarding the Economic and Social Council have been said earlier. He discussed the draft sixth anti-Korona package before adopting it in the Government, the Economic and Social Council. Employers and trade unions agreed that it was essential to maintain jobs. This is reported by MMC RTV Slovenia, a relevant medium. So they agreed it was necessary. We, the National Assembly, Members of Parliament and not the Government, cannot influence whether or not they have adopted a decision. They didn't take it. Just like they didn't accept it when they discussed the new Trade Act. We didn't let anyone go. And be, colleagues and colleagues of the opposition, so fair, and don't just talk like this government, this coalition deliberately released the young. It's a set-up and we don't go around doing stuff like that. Nor do we go through some religious impatience because you keep dragging religious officials into your discussions. I know you don't have a problem with the money we give for them, and it's right to give, the problem is religious intolerance. And religious freedom is one of the key human rights. So much for human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Is there still interest in this article? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS's parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS's parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 22 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 25 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 28 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 30 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 35 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 59 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 61 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 66 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 72 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 102 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 103 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 106 and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 106a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am giving 106th Article and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups to the debate. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. Since the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups to Title 25b of the Chapter is substantively linked to their amendments to Articles 106.d and 106.e, we will discuss this chapter title and the articles together. I therefore give the title 25b of Chapters 106.d and 106.e. and the three amendments of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups and the amendment of the SD, SMC, NSi and DeSUS groups to Article 106.e. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 107 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and DeSUS parliamentary groups and the amendments of the LMŠ, SD and SAB. Comrade Edward Paulic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u208	Thank you very much, Chairman. Given that this is one of the key articles to help the economy, I would like to briefly explain the amendments of the LMŠ and SD and SAB groups. In this article, we propose a 100 % refund on fixed costs for activities closed by a government decision. However, we also propose a change in the aid scale, namely introducing a new class of beneficiaries, raising the level of aid to cover fixed costs on the basis of a government proposal, adding the condition that the employer should not forgive workers for a period of 3 months after receiving the aid and withdrawing the cap for limiting the aid of thousands of euros per employee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 108 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 127 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 127.a and the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups. There is no desire for debate, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 127.b and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 131 and the amendment of the SDS, SMC and DeSUS parliamentary groups. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 134 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 136 and the amendment of the MPs LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 139a and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 139b and the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS groups. There's no desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. I am giving 139th article and amendment to the SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 140 and the amendment of the SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in 15 minutes in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. I hereby end this agenda item and the 49th extraordinary session, which will be resumed by the vote at 8 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 7.43 p.m. and resumed at 8 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u210	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, we continue with the adjourned meeting of the assembly. I inform you that the assembly will first vote on the 2nd and then on the 3rd item of the agenda. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Member who participates in the meeting via the application shall, in particular, be asked to check his connection. We continue with the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on intervention measures to mitigate the consequences of the second wave of covid-19 in the context of the emergency procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 25 June. 11. 2020, published on the e-club. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 6. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 7. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 47. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 8(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 83 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 48. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 8(2). We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 5. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 10. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 47. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 14(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 14(2). We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 22. Miha Kordish, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u211	Thank you for your word, chairman. The government of Janez Janša clearly shows its priorities, and every day. Unfortunately, these priorities do not measure against the epidemic and social security of the population and the population, but on everything else. Let's say the total takeover of power and all the sub-systems that we're going through in this country. It also considers it quite classy to transfer as many public finances from the pockets of the state treasury, which are charged with taxes from all citizens and citizens, to small private enterprises. Thus, from the first measures of the CAP, a total of €600 million of public funds have ended up in large companies as a liquidity reserve, and these funds have been earmarked to maintain jobs. In the meantime, however, people slipped into distress. Even more so, when the second wave came, the government of Janez Janša refused to declare the epidemic. Why? Because if there is an epidemic in the country, workers in the public sector who work in endangered places who work at the workplaces they work at, for example, to support us with emergency services, such as nurses in the nursing homes, there is an additional 65% of their wages to work in an epidemic. But for these people, for these workers, Janez Janša's government was a waste of money. And the epidemic was declared a few months late. Moreover, even after this has happened, we can read in the Government's legislative PKP proposals Janez Janša supplements for these exposed workers and drivers in the epidemic who do not achieve additives that would otherwise belong to them. It's totally unacceptable, it's outrageous and it's ridiculous. There is absolutely nothing to help people with the empty thanks of government officials if the government does not at the same time provide them with supplements for their sacrificial work in the epidemic. Let it be a direct contact with patients with covider-19 in hospitals, nursing homes, nurses and so on, or for those who are additionally burdened by the difficult working conditions of the epidemic. But where Janez Janša’s government so decisively laid down, Levica and her opposition partners jumped in. This is an amendment to Article 22, which provides all workers with a fair raise and a fair compensation for their work in these crisis epidemics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u212	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 46. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 25. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 28. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 30. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 35(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 82 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against three. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 35(1) was adopted, the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to the same Article under Article 2 became irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 58. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 59(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Colleague Natasa Sukič, explanation on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u213	Thank you very much, chairman. This 59th article is a serious precedent, something we have never seen before. From one crown to another, a clear line is drawn. And we can call this clear line "hoysisms" or "Hoyce's arsonists." From the anti-Korona package into the anti-Korona package, his ideas of increasing repression are getting worse. But now this is the hot spot. To deepen a citizen or a citizen, I now think mercifully that you are proposing with 12 000 euros because it expresses its democratic right, its democratic right to criticise any existing authority, is currently yours, is simply the most possible anti-democratic practice we have ever seen. It's not a joke anymore. What you're suggesting is, I'm sorry, but this is actually crazy. Imagine an average citizen and a citizen who gets that kind of fine and doesn't have the money. What's going to happen to this man? Are you going to rent him out of the apartment, dump him on the road, sell this apartment on auction, or his house on auction? Is that what you give people, that light at the end of the tunnel? I'm telling you, this is no longer a joke. So, honourable Members, those who are behind such sanctions, you will leave your fingerprints on the blackest stain in the history of our country so far. When we conquered ourselves, and you were the ones who hit each other's chests most about this independence, even the museum of independence would like to build, we were winning ourselves to have democracy. Just because he wants to express criticism, his dissatisfaction with your government, in that way, is a crime. And those who actually sign under this will remain recorded in history. I'm not kidding. This will be recorded in history. Therefore, I invite you, honourable Members and Members, also from the SDS, who are the creators of this horror, to withdraw this article. That's unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Explanation of vote, Comrade Branko Grims on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u215	Thank you. If there is any horror at this time, ask, for example, the Maribor Clinical Center. They're full of beds, they're full of hospitals, people are dying. And this is about endangering people's lives. What, though, is the cost of treating one person who is attached to a ventilator for a month because some unconscious people there infect him by choosing such a way of protest that is contrary to the law and that endangers all human beings? No one has the right to endanger the lives and health of his fellow humans. That's really what this is about. And everything you've said, I'm totally rejecting and I'm voting against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u216	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary group, Janja Slug has the word
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u217	Thank you very much. I have previously pointed out in the debate that it is not right and it is wrong that today, when amendments have already been tabled and most of the things we have pointed out in the first stage as problematic have already fallen out and are no longer in the text and some are still being discussed as if they are in the text. The fact is that the vast majority of this is no longer in there, much thanks to the SMC, and this is one of those articles. I warned the Committee yesterday that, with the content proposed, we do not agree that the principle of proportionality should be followed in determining the amount of fines. The result of these efforts is here today with the signatures of all coalition partners, which is also the result of our efforts. Therefore, do not hold to what has now been said. There is now a violation of the ban on restricting the collection of people in a public place, and the nature of this offence is particularly severe due to the risk to the health of more people at the time of the epidemic. It's a real consequence. We are no longer talking about what the SMC did not agree to punish just the summons. Make sure you're correct and let me know. In times of these special circumstances, I can agree that the role of a certain fine is also in dissuasive effect. Yes, it is. We have to admit it, whether we want it or not. I can therefore agree that in such cases some fines may also need to be raised and set at such a level that they actually achieve this dissuasive effect. However, it is necessary to pursue proportionality towards other fines, rather than other offences. In the SMC, we are convinced that this correction, with this amendment, which we have tabled together, has achieved this purpose, has also achieved proportionality, and ultimately justice has been achieved. That is why we will support the amendment of the coalition in the SMC Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u218	Thank you very much. We're still at the opposition's amendment. On behalf of the Group of Members, a colleague of Tina Heferle shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u219	Thank you very much. See, the fact is that the opposition is the one who has pointed out this controversial article for several days in the consideration of this law and that it is one of the worst supporters of this sixth corona package. It is not permissible, nor is it allowed, for such an article to be found in a law which is supposed to be of an intervention nature that is intended to be social and economic in order to help citizens and our economy. It is not hygienic, it is not permissible and in the opinion of the LMSH it is not excusable. But we are pleased that you have listened to us at least in listening both to our warnings and to the warnings of the profession, which have clearly and in one voice warned that it is a matter of serious arbitration, that it is a serious breach of some established criminal law standards that apply in constitutional democracy as Slovenia is. And once again, such articles should by no means be found in intervention legislation, let alone three days or more, all the time that we are considering this law, we are talking to each other to the greatest extent about such content. It's just not allowed. And once again, this article has nothing to do here and the LMŠ Group therefore supports this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Comrade Dean Jedhan, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u221	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! We will, of course, support the proposal that we have in common to simply delete this article. Of course, we also respect Mrs Janja Slug's efforts and the narrow group within this strange coalition, which nevertheless fights for some reason. But why do we think it doesn't belong to this marriage? PKP6, which is ahead of us, understands that we are helping people who are in trouble because of the epidemic and because of the bad measures that the government is preparing and doing badly. To help individuals, to society as a whole and also to the economy. There is no need for such legislation to change the democratic structure of Slovenian society. There is no need for all of us to see together that we do not control the epidemic because the rulings do not trust each other. When rulers come to the screens, people run and turn off TVs, turn off the radio, and close the newspapers. With such concrete proposals, we believe the Social Democrats will increase their mistrust. So be an example. If you prescribe something, you double-check it. Since this measure is going in the wrong direction, this measure will not help to reduce the epidemic but will make people even more upset. It significantly helps if those who take and take measures hold them twice and are respectful of citizens and citizens, even politely say if they are ever mistaken and do not threaten them. This measure is a threat. As a result, there is a high probability that there will be mistrust, which is too present in our society and is harmful at the moment. Lack of confidence is harmful at this point and such measures will further increase confidence. That is why I think it would be right to say that we are going along the right path, this is the path of personal appearance, the respect of citizens and citizens and the building of trust. And if we follow such a path, we must today accept what the opposition is proposing. We will therefore vote in favour of our proposal in the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u223	Thank you, President. The others have already told us, we're just joining in. Here are some human rights restrictions. It's not right, it's not fair. Man must always have the opportunity to express ideas and his thoughts, and in that sense let us limit the matter to him. For this reason, we have also decided that the co-signatories of this amendment will be to Article 59, and that is why we appeal once again to all to delete it, absolutely delete it. Those corrections that have been made, the good will of the SMC party, we welcome this, but we still consider that this is too little and unfair to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Since there's a lot of interest in explaining the voice in a personal name, I'm opening a list. Applications are under way. The first one has the word Matjaž the German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President, even from the improvised seat. I will join myself to those who will condemn the conduct of the present government and we will be like the Mag. Dejan Židan, commend those rare ones who in some way seek to build this bridge during some understanding and, without offense, the madness we witness to them. For today we speak democracy or autocracy. We are one of the few countries or the only European countries that enforces such high fines for those who try to express their personal opinion and freedom in a peaceful way during the pandemic. We've never witnessed this before. So today we decide whether it is even possible to express our opinion publicly on the street, whether we are doing so peacefully or not. And such a repressive approach will certainly not contribute to the credibility and credibility of the government. Instead of approaching people with a kind face of understanding in certain circumstances, you try to push them into a corner with your finger. Such an approach has proved to be effective to this extent that we are today among the leading European countries in the epidemiological picture and in the field of a drying economy, including among those countries that are less responsive to the challenges of economic development and re-engineering. We're going against the flow, my respectable colleague and colleague! And there's no correctional exam here. With all knowledge, with your names and surnames, please let reason prevail today and vote against such initiatives, i.e. for the decision we have proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u226	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u227	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, as Dejan already said on behalf of the Social Democrats, trust. You can't build trust with a stick. You can't regulate Slovenian society with a stick. People who have been in politics for 30 years should know that. I am concerned by a government and a coalition that is so very interventively afraid of its own people, and by Article 82 of the Constitution, we are representatives of the people. You know why? Because in this fear, it is impossible to think and act decisively. That's what this is about. And if someone is so afraid of his own people, let them ask where these fears come from. Because fears are usually lurking and stem from their own ignorance and stereotypes. And let him answer these questions, not follow the intervention law with the articles in question. I will support the opposition amendment and I will vote against such an amendment, which is also fraught with reality. And who of these young people has, if you give him half, six grand to pay you? He doesn't even have the property you're going to collect from him. I'm kind of afraid of how crazy this coalition is, that we're going to have to experience the experience of England in Slovenia, when Ambassador Fox literally killed someone so high on the street, and then we're going to start wondering where we are. And then nobody's gonna do anything, and then you're all gonna be wet grass.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u229	Thank you, Chairman. Yes, the Houseman, it's true. This measure is of an extremely dissuasive nature. He will turn citizens and citizens away from you even more. He'll fill them even more with anger, because this is the measure you're proposing, even though you think you've softened it, you're not. You've put down a fine of 12 grand, please! You will truly be grateful to the citizens and citizens for this. This measure is nothing more than the intimidation, terror and forecasting of the end of our democracy, the regime that we have all been working for. And she's not on her own. Such measures can destroy it overnight. And that's what you do. And I'll say one more thing. In the first wave of the epidemic, when Fridays were protested every week, Ljubljana was among the last municipalities according to the number of people infected, which means that by responsible protestors the virus apparently did not spread in these protests, given that Ljubljana was then, I think, in 52nd place, if I am right in memory, among all the municipalities. So you're very much misleading people, and you think you're going to want sympathy when you're fighting for their health. No, you're using this epidemic to stage repression, and that's the end of democracy. I will, of course, support our amendment and certainly not yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I suggest we focus on the amendments and the law so we don't go to any personal level. Violeta Tomic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u231	Thank you very much. The problem with this coalition and the government is that they don't even consider the profession. When the epidemic gets out of control, it searches for ideological enemies and points everything around with a finger. Now you are incriminating protests and calls for protests, just you, who, declared all the time, advocate freedom of speech when you spread hatred around. Let's take a look at the data. NIJZ has just found that out of 900,000 working people, 70% are still working and that these are unprotected and unprotected and are sources of infection. Then we have 19,000 guards home for the elderly, 30% of whom have been infected, say more than 5,000 460. And you know, everyone else who died was a security guard for the DSO. There are reasons why the epidemic has escaped. That's where you solve the problems that actually arise. Stop blaming innocent people or protestors who have every right to protest against this government for the rise of infection. This is totally unacceptable for you to use the epidemic to increase repression. The citizens will not forgive you for this. Of course, I will vote for this article to be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u232	Thank you very much. The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Look, respectable coalition, we've been quarantined under curfew for five weeks now, under measures we haven't seen here since the forty years of the previous century. However, there were 2,000 300 infections yesterday. I hope one of you ever asks yourself why these measures don't happen. Why doesn't your actions depend? Maybe because you have the wrong idea why infections happen. I keep hearing from you that these infections happen at some parties because people are happy and then it's a sin to have covid infection. But yesterday, NIJI published the following data: 25 percent of people got infected in jobs, over 20 percent of people got infected in families or in common households, 15 percent got infected in DSOs, which is entirely your fault, while private society has about 2 percent there. But this is your assessment, the private associations are the ones, the protests are the ones. And what you do with this article is nothing more than a ban on protests, even though you have no evidence of any kind of infection at the protests or anywhere outside. On the contrary, in Germany they have a regulation that, when kept in public spaces or in common premises, the premises should be irradiated at every hour, since radiation is the best measure against the presence of the crown in the air. So he's not out in the open. And you want to ban the protests. You're only doing this because you're banning protests because in laws like today, you're intruding things like the circuit for your friend Jambrek, so that his university can be accredited beyond the established criteria, or the demolition of high schools and anti-intellectualism, or the end of hanging 15 or 12 thousand euros in penalties against people who will call for protests. It doesn't matter. If I quote you one quote from a period that you love very much, you can cut off individual flowers by hanging them from the ground, but you can't. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish. Can I have some quiet, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u235	The far largest proportion of infections that occur occur in the workplace: in factory halls, in industrial zones. We all know that, and we all know that practically from the beginning. However, the government of John Janša decided to hide this information. She hid them for a long time, but last night, NIJ finally confirmed them. Why, let us ask, did the government of Janez Janša hide information about where and how infections occur? Because in this information mannequin, he can then manipulate. And they're suddenly guilty of spreading the covida-19 epidemic, not government incompetence, but the people who are triming in the woods, some imaginary martinis, and the Levica, who collects signatures against the purchase of 780 million euro in arms for the NATO union, the cyclist protestors. In short, anything at all, just what would be true, no. The government of Janez Janša reacts to this own facsimile news machine by repressing citizens and citizens, apparently up to EUR 12 000. This is a criminalisation of opposition, not a measure against the epidemic. The second reason why the government of Janez Janša is silent about the most infections coming from jobs and factories is because it should then admit that it did not protect people in jobs. The Globe doesn't deserve protestors, runners, but martinis don't know everything else, what you see. The fines are deserved by irresponsible capitalists, irresponsible employers who continue to force their employees to work in infectious factories. Even those who are already ill. How have you responded, ladies and gentlemen, and how will you respond? With the fines? No, you gave them 600 million euros. This article must come out of the PKP6, just as the government of John Janša must get out of power.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Who else is interested in explaining the voice? Jelly Brickler.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! I will vote against this amendment. Why? Because this amendment in Slovenia [[…]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] I was wrong. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u238	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 45. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 59. Mr Janja Servant on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u239	Once again, it will not remain in the air of these 12 thousand euros. If the offence referred to in paragraph 14 of paragraph 1 of this Article is punishable by an individual who organises the gathering of persons in breach of a regulation establishing a measure to prohibit or restrict the collection of persons in a public place pursuant to Article 39 of this Law, the nature of the offence shall be punishable by a fine of thousands of EUR 200 to 12 000 for health reasons at a time when the gathering of persons is prohibited due to the risk of spreading an infectious disease. Once again, be correct. Don't fool yourself, don't be populism, as you showed today that you're there on the other side, and then at least say it right. We have prepared this amendment in good faith by taking into account the principle of proportionality, taking into account that there is some serious danger and not just to punish the call, because we think it is right. That is why we have drafted this amendment, and if the opposition says that it has demanded this all the time, then I hope that this will also be seen in the vote today. In the SMC Group, we will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Port of the Moon on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Look, I'll tell you again. In a democratic and free Slovenia, a man protesting against the government will be able to receive 12 000 euros in fines. This is no longer freedom or democracy or rule of law. Do you know what rule of law is? That the rules are clear, simple, permanent and well-known. And you are here with a six-pack anti-korona package, introducing a regime where everything is literally changing every week. Can anyone tell me how many constitutions are currently in force in Slovenia? 50%? 20%? Maybe 10%? All the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia have been violated or denied! And now you're going to ban free speech and protests. And this is literally the new 133th article you're writing into this law. New Article 133. Verbal delinquency, if you like. If I repeat what I said before. When Slovenia gained independence, Vaclav Havel, which is a period that you very much liked, said you can trample all the flowers, but you cannot stop the spring. And neither will you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath, on behalf of the delegation.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members will vote in favour of this amendment, which was described very precisely by colleague Janja. We will vote in favour because we are in favour of a culture of life. We will vote in favour because we are against the culture of death. The right to life is the greatest human right. We're for freedom, which is about responsibility. Greater than freedom, greater responsibility. And whoever deliberately speaks of it as an amendment, who deliberately organises the spread of infections, must be sanctioned if we have a legal state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In my own name, I'm folding a leaf. Applications are under way. The first word is Violet Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u245	I do not agree that this amendment is now a principle of proportionality. We have demanded in the opposition the withdrawal of these disproportionate and unreasonable penalties, which have nothing to do in the anti-Korona package. And I don't care if it's 12,000, 10,000, 5,000. This article is a disgrace, a shame to democracy, and is unconstitutional. Now you say you're for life and the right to a healthy environment. When we speak to fracking, you vote calmly that the cracking in Petišovci is still there. And they deserve a healthy environment. Now you're incriminating protestors. Those who call for protest will be punished, those who share on Facebook will be punished, and this Friday we meet and protest against the government. It doesn't spread any viruses. Only computer viruses spread through the internet and the computer, not covida viruses, so it doesn't belong here. And we who fight for freedom, freedom of expression, freedom of thought will strongly oppose these repressive measures.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u247	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. When someone proposes or takes such radical measures against people and not people, I wonder how you, the government, will punish yourself for what you have cooked in the last eight months. Thousands of dead in the DSO, plus people in intensive care. Please tell me how you are going to punish yourself, if you are going to punish people who just want to demonstrate or protest or fight for life and democracy. Because life is the same democracy. Whoever's not ready to fight for democracy, you know what comes next. And once again, if you are prepared to take such radical measures or both radical penalties as in this case, as far as I know, please let me know if you tell me or a government representative to tell me how the government will punish itself for what it has cooked in eight months – the biggest economic crisis, the biggest social crisis, the biggest health crisis due to unaccepted measures. Please, the people want clear answers from you as to how you will punish yourself for what you have done or have not done in the last eight months. Thank you. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Micah Kordish has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u249	As can be seen from the statement by the Prime Minister, his communication with others, the government of Janez Janša is shaking. And it shakes honestly. After eight months, it has not shown any other than organised crime, the highest mortality in Europe and the epidemic, which has completely escaped control due to government negligence and government incompetence. And what does the government of John Janša do in these circumstances? The only thing he knows is that he kicks, kicks, and pens people who aren't guilty. This is what article 59 of the PKP6 calls for people to be fined with high penalties, with an amendment of EUR 12 000, because they express their disagreement that the SDS has kidnapped their country. And that's what the deserts of the country call the fight against the epidemic. At the same time, it is clear that most infections occur in jobs — jobs that Janez Janša did not protect. With freedom comes responsibility and the intentional spread of the virus must be sanctioned, a member of the coalition said just before me. Here. But coalition, ladies and gentlemen, and government, ladies and gentlemen, how are you going to sanction employers who deliberately and consciously spread the infection by making them work in factory halls, that there are no preventive measures in many places and that is why the infection is the most widespread in the workplace? No, you're not punishing them. You rewarded them with 600 million euros from the state treasury. But you will punish the workers when they resist this kind of treatment of the people as cattle and put them on the brink. And that's exactly what's gonna happen. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a KUL stick growing for you, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues! Look, I don't like to go into the explanations of my voice, but I appeal to you when you operate on what we accept, what the content of the amendment is, to stick to what it actually says in the amendment. I have heard the type of inaccuracies that those who protest against the government will be punished. Of course that's not true. The article says that it is about sanctioning organisers and I ask that you stick to this text, because, after all, people are looking at us and will get the wrong idea of what you are opposed and what others are defending. Please, I appeal to you. Gigler's got a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I will say correctly why I am voting against this amendment. Because it does not bring proportionality, but it systematically establishes dictatorship and repression. I'll explain why. Because it criminalises unification and a public word, which will be given in the form of an opinion on existing authority and existing policy. That's why. Since this amendment practically introduces this, it re-establishes, as already said by colleague Luke, 133rd Article of the Penal Code in the former Yugoslavia. This amendment, practically, who will vote for it, I will not vote for the dictatorship. This is the vote for the dictatorship of the one we joined together in Krška in 1986, 34 years ago, at the Congress of the Alliance of Socialist Youth, fighting together to prevent the word from becoming a delicacy. I'm not demented and I'm not old enough to forget what I defended 34 years ago. It is the foundation of democracy and freedom in this country. That's why I'm not going to support this amendment. The one you're going to study what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u253	Am I really a populism if I say that the penalty of 12,000 euros is to express criticism as a citizen or a citizen? Am I really a populism for this, my dear? I didn't. I believe that although SMC tried and tried and even slightly repaired the first horrible article. I also believe that it is difficult in such a coalition where the first rider of the apocalypse of our democracy Hojs wants his sword nn wants to actually yes, you just laugh, but it is indeed the twilight of democracy, respected. [[…]] You have so much to say about Article 133, a verbal delicacy in the former Yugoslavia. That's Article 133. This is Article 133 – verbal offense. Yeah. Yeah, what else is that? I really don't understand your double standards. So I can't support it, but it's better than the first one, but it's terrible. It is literally terrible that today we are in a situation where you can get a man down to 12 thousand euros just because he expresses his democratic right of opinion as enshrined in our constitution. Now is it, or are we going to burn this constitution of ours and we are already in another republic — or where are we? I don't understand how you can mock me, my people. Do you know that this will remain in history with your names and your surnames? These will be people and we'll remember. We'll never forget that. So I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Once again, I appeal to you to explain your vote in accordance with the contents of the amendment. As there is still a desire to explain the voice in a personal name, I am opening the list, the applications are being made. The word is Matthew the Widow.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u255	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, citizens and citizens, so that you do not misunderstand, those who today, at the time of the epidemic, call for a meeting, for unrest, in order to endanger ours and your health, this is unacceptable. What some in the opposition point out is that the right of movement is the "first right", that freedom of speech is "as a first right", I speak as a first right, I would ask myself, the right to health of all of you and all of us is the first right. Why? When we die after a co-conspirator, no other right will be able to help us. So let's stop, stop people today who are calling on people to riot, disunity, instead of all those who are sitting here today working for the same goal together, and at the elections, they're going to fight to the end and see who wins. That is why I will absolutely support the proposed amendment, because it is only a matter of punishing individuals who organise the gathering of people contrary to the rules at the time of the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Anya Bah Žibert has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u257	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. In order to be clear to citizens and citizens, it is clear to everyone in this room that only people are being misled. It's about the next one. It is punishable by an individual who organizes the gathering of people during the period of the limitation of the gathering of people. It is said that it is a temporary measure during the health crisis and it is not a permanent measure banning collection, no one is talking about the prohibition of collection. It's about the person who organizes it. Now, ladies and gentlemen, one more thing. You're all talking about some protests. It is publicly known that these matters are organised. If you are so hairy and so honest and democratic, then ask these organizers to report the meetings to pay for all the relevant meetings-related matters and to regulate all the rules applicable to all those organising the meetings. I don't know why one of them has to do this in this country, but the other one doesn't have to. Today, you are resisting the fact that during the epidemic, the organizer was banned from organizing a mass gathering of people. On the other hand, you're talking about how infections happen. Are you kidding me or are you making a fool of yourself?Oh, my God! You're making a fool of the medical staff, you're making a fool of people who are really poor. But you know, you're home. The social threat is not Jenull, and neither is Keber, nor is Svetlana Makarovič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u258	I ask that explanation be given to the voice's explanation of vote. Gradually, colleague Luka Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u259	Thank you. Given that this emotional outburst has now been an explanation of voice, I am interested in how colleague Anja Bah Žibert will vote. Otherwise, according to the NIJ, which was published yesterday, it does not appear that anyone would have been infected outside. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u260	It can be concluded from the explanations of vote that she will vote in favour. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] . My friend Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u261	I, too, the chairman, would point out that this was not really an explanation for the voice, but just an emotional outburst. And if anyone organizes the gathering of people in this country, they're employers. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u262	What's the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u263	And according to the NIJ, there are also the most infections. [[…]] Are you going to sanction them? You won't. You'll be sanctioning the protestors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u264	Your Honor, I'd like to ask you to calm down. Now you are aware that there has been an emotional outbreak, such an epiphany can be addressed either at the end or at all three ends of this hall. So I'm asking you to refrain from making these comments. I appeal to you to stick to the explanations of vote, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, not to say names to anyone, but to explain why you chose to or against an individual amendment. Colleague Sukič, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u265	Your Honor, please warn colleague Bah Žibert. That wasn't an explanation of vote, like I did last time I got a vote on my own. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u266	My colleague, if you've listened to me [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u267	UPV, because I forgot to say it, and it was clear, as it is now clear to you, so this is true for everyone. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u268	My colleague, if you've listened to me, I've warned her.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u269	And one more thing. Warn me, colleague Bah Žibert, not to mention the lists of people you intend to deepen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u270	My colleague, please listen to what I'm saying or read a magnetogram. I've been alerting you to what you're alerting me to. I now see these procedural proposals as delaying the meeting. I suggest we move on and give the floor to Dr. Franc Trčko, who has an explanation for his own voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u271	Thank you, for your word. You don't know what you'd think. I will vote against it, but when I listen to this, you know, we explain long and wide how to digitise ourselves up and down. There's a beautiful book, it's thin, let's read it, it's translated into Slovenian, Paolo Virno: The word of the crowd. Now I'm going to mention my friend Charz, and I hope he doesn't mind me. When Comrade Sarec ran for president of the country, several thousand people wrote that they were his uncles. What if the folk's film is even more directed at such nonsense that we've been going to Parliament for the past few weeks, and 50,000 people are going to call, "We have everything, left and right and sharp, we're going to throw them away." Then who's the organizer? Good morning, let's start thinking! That's what we're paid for.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u272	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u273	Thank you very much. One more time. According to NIJZ, the main source of infections in the workplace. This kind of gathering is the most problematic. If anyone wanted to respond to the challenges posed by the epidemic, they would be determined to address the spread of infections in the workplace. Last time I checked, there was no protest since the outbreak. Except for one unfortunate November 5th. None of the cycling protests since then, because cyclists have always taken into account all the measures that had to be respected in relation to social distance and masks and so on. I don't care if it's 15 or 12 thousand, one worker on a minimum wage is going to pay 10 years. Dear representatives of the government, if you are to spread the virus epidemic on the protests, although it is nothing, so much to worry, I ask you to take the ultimate anti-korona measure and step down immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u274	I had previously received a warning that one of the Members or Members did not tell how she would vote. Now I hear two people haven't told you how to vote. Please, if we have to focus, we can take half an hour off, but if we don't, we'll continue. Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u275	We can break up here now. I think that this 59th article does not fit this law at all, so I voted absolutely to delete the article. I think we're going to do more harm than good by taking people down in any way. Now, technically, they're going to watch me vote. But I will abstain from this amendment and let the coalition right now fix this article. If this article, my dears, will not be accepted, I don't know, I don't trust it, but it's just a trick, but it's just that, even though I trust Janji. If this is just a trick, it can be made that this amendment will not be adopted and will remain in the law a basic text, which is unseemly worse than this amendment. I must say that this amendment corrects the previous text. He just has to be accepted. That is why I will not vote against it because I would not like to help this amendment not to be adopted by accident. Of course, this amendment and this content do not fit in this package PKP6. I will also, technically speaking, tell the public why you will not have my vote against this amendment, because I will not allow you to bring back, by chance, that article that is in the law, which for 15,000 Euros, is to deepen people, and that which is to say every single one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u276	Dear colleagues, this is what the explanation for the vote looks like. Master Branko Grimes has the next word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u277	Thank you for your word. First of all, all this talk must be rejected as limiting the right to criticise the government. Everyone has the right to protest against the government, even in the basic text in law, everyone has the right to express this protest, but in a way that does not endanger the lives and health of people. Everything else that's been said is a huge and fat lie. From this point of view, it is sufficient to have constitutional criteria, the right to express an opinion, including the criticism of the Government, the most basic text proposed by the Government in its law, and I fully support it as the only suitable one to adequately resolve this matter. All those you have just spoken have overlooked that this text has already been amended on the Committee, and this article is also open. But personally, when I read all these three texts, far from the best, the most appropriate text was the one proposed by the government. What is now proposed as an amendment is worse than what the Committee has adopted. I'm not gonna break this. I add this as an additional argument, today you are the loudest against the imposition of punishment, against disproportionate punishment, as was said when it comes to life, and those who once passed a completely insane sentence for one wagon of rotten wormwood that a farmer would bring out of his own guest would find at home. A thousand euros fines for one wagon of rotten wood! This is about people's lives. So much for your proportionality, your credibility, and everything that is now being said in blank in Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u278	Thank you very much. Jerca Korca has the floor. Comrade Kordish, I hope it's procedural, if not, I'll give you a reminder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u279	I would just like to point out, Presidents, that you have previously intervened very bravely and proactively in the opposition's explanations of vote, saying that the opposition Members are talking about things that are not in law and are not in law.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u280	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u281	And there Mr Grims from SDS explains about some rotten wood and I don't know what else, and you're there quietly. Yes, the President [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u282	My friend Kordish [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u283	These are double vats. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u284	I didn't say that. Look at the magnetogram. The word is Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u285	Thank you very much. The main problem is that in these laws, which we constantly warn you about, you bring articles that have nothing to do with what the government should do or pay attention to. To say the truth, I do not support the basic proposal nor do I support the proposed amendment because these articles do not belong to these laws. It is sad that in the situation that we have in this country, when people close their service activities, when they do not know what will happen tomorrow when young people lose their income, you bring these articles in order to deal with these articles for two, three days and today with explanations of vote. That's a basic mistake. I expect the government to be realistic, stop bringing such articles to the table and focus its focus, as well as the focus of the debate of this National Assembly in the direction it should be today. This is, on the one hand, a health crisis and, on the other hand, a focus on what is happening in the economic field. Here I really think that today the red line, that we all come together and stop talking about accreditation, about intervention in the Labour Market Regulation Act and so on. And let this be an appeal here that next time, at the next session of the seven, we do not talk about unnecessary things, but about how our citizens will live tomorrow. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u286	Thank you very much. Anyone else? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 61. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 63(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 48. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 63(2). We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 52 votes against one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 66(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 50. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 66(2). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 14. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 72. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 49. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 102. A colleague, Dejan Židan, has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u287	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Article 102 is useful as it speaks of allowing parents of children in hospitals to be with them up to and including 14 years of age. On 18 November, however, all of us, honourable Members and Members, received the invitation of the company Mavrica, which deals specifically with children with special needs that need 24-hour care and care. We got their request to sort things out like this. Now let me read this: "But there is also an urgent need to arrange a way to finance the cohabitation of parents of seriously ill children who need 24-hour care and care and are over 15 years of age. Children with special needs with severe mobility, mental limitations, rare diseases, long-term ill children or children with two or more different diagnosises, who in many cases cannot speak, speak poorly, are difficult to communicate, are insolvent, need foreign help for basic needs in life, and these are usually also in such cases." As the opposition, we have prepared an amendment to include this, that is, these children up to and including 18 years of age, although this amendment is not ideal. In fact, we should also give this limit up, but with this first step, honourable Members and Members, let us take at least the first necessary step to help parents of children who have special needs and need 24-hour care. My request is to vote yes. The Group of Social Democrats will support the call of Mavrica, while we are aware that we are not solving the issue in full. And I'm going to put it this way, like the government's representatives keep saying, let's get this completely out of the way in package 7. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Boštjan Koražija has the floor on behalf of the Left Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u289	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Well, you see, here are the amendments when we make or listen to people or even the weakest ones in our society. And these things should also be in all the CAP, from the first to the seventh, which will be next. As Mr Židan mentioned earlier, on behalf of society, we are taking the initiative to help the parents of these children who are seriously ill, who need urgent care, who are also children with special needs. In Levi, we will support this amendment, and I hope that everyone else will listen to more people, what they tell you, what they also require of you, because they have the right to ask of you, which is why you are here in the National Assembly. Not because there are 90 Members here, but because we represent more than 2 million people. In fact, because of those here in the National Assembly who are the weakest in our society, and those who do not understand this, we are better off packing yourselves out of this National Assembly, quite frankly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u290	I suggest we don't invite anyone in this way. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I guess not. Natasha Sukich, in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u291	Thank you very much, Chairman. Of course, such an amendment simply cannot be rejected. I'll support him, of course. Here, indeed, the coalition now has a unique opportunity to support at least one amendment of the opposition. Not because it's an amendment to the opposition, but because it's for the good of those who are the weakest. You're not going to say no to them, are you? So show yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u292	Thank you very much. In her own name, a fellow boxer has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u293	Thank you very much. I'd like to explain my voice. Otherwise, I could agree with this amendment, but this is also in the procedure of the Children's Law with Special Needs in the Education Area, which we will deal with next week. And of course these children should also be added, so I propose and hope that such a solution will be made in an integrated manner in the next PKP7 package. I will therefore vote against this solution because it is partial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u294	Thank you very much. Mia Kordish in her own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u295	With every change to the PKP laws, up to this point there were six, the government of Janez Janša boasts at all times that she has not forgotten anyone that she has helped all the people in the country to protect all the vulnerable groups. When a government official turns up on television and starts to explain something, it is clear at this point that the truth is diametrically opposite to what they say. There is nothing different about PKP6 as well. The vast majority of people in the PKP6 also leave the government of Janez Janša behind, from socially endangered students to tenants, after all, inadequately protected workers. And now he's apparently looking for special excuses to reject the amendment we tabled in the opposition parliamentary groups to pay particular attention to children with special needs and their families. They say they do this because the solution is not comprehensive, that we already have some other laws in the parliamentary procedure. But, ladies and gentlemen, nothing in the last eight months in the National Assembly is what the government would bring and would be integrated. What PKP law are we considering? Six. Why is it the sixth? Because 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 of Janša's previous laws to the people did not help the country to be credited, the infection is spreading. You're correcting your own marriage solutions that aren't really solutions. Now, with this argument, which is most relevant for government legislative machinations, break an amendment to help children with special needs and their families. Don't be shy!
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u296	I see there's still interest. I'm going through the list. Applications are under way. Alexander Reberšek has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u297	President, thank you so much for your word. I admire the concern for our weakest and most vulnerable citizens by the MEP. My memory still works very well. Last year at the end of the year, we voted in the National Assembly to raise invalidity pensions. And then you were against it. Today [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u298	No personal names.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u299	Today you're planting flowers in the opposition. I, I'll do anything [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u300	Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u301	which is in my power for this article to be adopted in the CAP7, without a time limit. [[…]] Age should not be set in children with special needs. Thank you. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u302	Procedurally, Matjaž Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u303	Look, President, I know I could have reacted, but I said procedurally before, but all my colleagues and colleagues, please, I know it's hard to be in the government, and I know it's hard to listen when the opposition has proposals that you just can't do because of finance, ideas and so on. But it wasn't long ago when you were in the opposition, and we were on this side. You know how hard it is. When you explain your voice, because maybe the first time you're here, when your voice gets out, you tell me what you're going to say in your name, how you're going to vote, and leave at least those six months that we're a little bit in the opposition, so we can say something. [[Laugh]] Please! At least that. We'll change. [[Laugh]] And we'll look down.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u304	Okay, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u305	So please, President, be strict. Because I am most angry when Members come to the end, it doesn't matter which way, which way it was gone all day, and then I would explain the world to save it. But he was gone all day. I've been in this national council for three days.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, if I were so strict, I don't think I'd leave one explanation to vote today. Because you talk about everything else, just not what we decide to do. But the fact is that I leave this freedom because some people do it in a slightly more abstract way, some more figuratively, some just end up saying how they're going to vote, some forget it. But I suggest we hold on for a while and do this procedure that we are obliged to do. He still has a word with Dr. Franz Ducky. Procedural? Franz Duck has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u307	Thank you for your word. Don't make me angry with Matjaž. Look, I just wanted to say something. Intervention laws are, by inherent logic, a time-limited set of necessary partialities. Or, if I say so in a more popular language, the intervention laws due to some extraordinary circumstances are a combination of firefighting measures and fliers. Therefore, to blaspheme about intervention laws, if, "her, we will not accept this now, let us wait for a systemic solution", please, whoever is saying this does not understand intervention laws. I will vote in favour of this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u308	Thank you very much. Mag. Dean Jedhan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u309	Thank you, President. I'm not going to scare anyone else. I also have to say, I'm not a Christian Democrat, but even though I was a minister, I even played an organ in the church, and let me be allowed because I'm on the left. I'm not going to encourage anyone else's words because they're not decent. And that's not the case either, but I'll explain why I'm going to vote in favour. We have received a specific call from a specific society, people who care for severely ill children. That's not a political question, my dear. That's how to help people who are hard to deal with. I don't care what happened a thousand years ago. I don't care what happened hundreds, tens and one years ago. This call, respected and respected, was received by me at the e-mail on November 11 or 12. I looked around and together we made one form of amendment. If we wrote today, we'd do even better, and we'll try to do it later. People are in trouble. I won't wait for the system laws, either, because I keep listening to this, we'll be systematic, systemic. No, if you can today, help and take the first step today, and tomorrow we will take four major steps forward. So with my voice, I'm going to help people who are really hard on them. They have kids they can't talk to. They have kids who aren't moving. And they are released from this law, and they suggest that we help these parents and children. We split a billion! We have divided a billion, my dears, but you cannot give a few more euros to help these specific people without any history, because they are having a hard time and they need our voice to make it easier for them. Not here to talk about politics, we're talking about humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u310	Thank you very much. The word is by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u311	President, thank you. Good bye to all of you. Before I went to this vote, I was 100% confident that I would support this amendment. I also addressed my fellow Members at the meeting of the Group of Members. At a short meeting of the Group of Members, we are united. But based on the discussions of some individuals, I would rather vote against it, because the way we communicate in the National Assembly is despair. This was the case with my colleague Dejan, which is why I will still vote in favour of this solution, the President and everyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u312	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 40. [[applause in the hall]] [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 103. We're voting. There are 81 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 45. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to Article 106. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, 36 votes against 49. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 106a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 106. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the members of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB to chapter 25.b. The amendment is substantively linked to the amendments of the same proposer to Article 106.d and Article 106.e. under Article 1. If this amendment is not adopted, these amendments will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 47. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Levica and SAB groups to Title 25b of the Chapter has not been adopted, the amendment of the same proposer to Article 106.d and Article 106.e under Article 1 has become irrelevant. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 106.e under Article 2. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD and SAB groups to Article 107(1). If this amendment is adopted, the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to the same Article under number 2 shall become irrelevant. Edvard Paulič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u313	President, thank you. I am now talking about one of the key articles for the economy, which is about the reimbursement of fixed costs to businesses. Therefore, in the List of Marjan Šarca, in the SD and in the SAB, we propose a 100 % refund on fixed costs to the activities that have been closed by government decree. For other activities that work, however, we propose a change in the aid scale, namely introducing a new class of beneficiaries, raising the level of aid to cover fixed costs, adding the condition that the employer should not forgive workers for three months after receiving the aid and withdrawing the cap for limiting the aid amount of thousands of euros per employee. We estimate that our proposal for an economy is more favourable than that of a government and will, of course, be supported by the Marjan Sarca Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u314	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 49. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 107(2). We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, for 49, for 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 108. We're voting. There are 85 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to Article 127. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 50. (There were 36 votes in favour.)(against 50.) I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Members' groups LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab to 127.a. We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, with 36 votes against 50. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 127.b. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and DeSUS to Article 131. We're voting. There are 86 Members and Members, 49, against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to Article 134. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 38 votes against 48. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the LMŠ, SD, Left and Sab groups to Article 136. We're voting. There are 88 Members and Members present, 37 votes against 50. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 50.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 139a. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 139b. We're voting. There are 85 Members of Parliament present, with 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 139. We're voting. There are 85 Members of Parliament present, for 50, against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, LMŠ, Levica and SAB to Article 140. We're voting. There are 87 Members present, 42 votes against 42. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. I note that the second reading adopted amendments to 8, 14, 25, 28, 30, 35, 58, 59, 63, 66, 106, 106, 102, 106, 107, 108, 127.b, 131, 139.a, 139.b and 139.c. of the amended proposal. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments in this Article. I guess not. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not informed me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would have made the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. Is there any explanation for the voice? On behalf of the parliamentary group, colleague Natasa Sukić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u315	Your Honor! The arrogance of this power goes so far that the coalition dared to legitimize corruption in the form of the so-called Jambrek article. Although it has eased the issue a little bit, with crazy penalties, sanctions, I would like to kill democracy, silence everyone who dares to criticize this coalition and this government. Imagine a poor man who will eventually be imprisoned, forced to be expelled from his apartment to pay for this pilgrimage, which is the precedent of all precedents. In short, I'm talking about arsonists who are breaking the law, which is good and good in many segments. But what if, over and over again, such and other subsets appear that destroy literally all good intentions? This gives us legal, legalized corruption with the PKP6 and gives us a death blow to democracy in this country. The University of Jambrek, which does not meet the conditions for accreditation, will thus continue to receive €175,000 of public money per month, which will impose two million euros per year of our public money, which, at this moment, would be in dire need of blood for many other and really important things. So this shameful antikoronic package, which literally spits on our democracy and on our constitution, I'm sure I won't support it and we won't support it in Levica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u316	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? I guess not. In his own name, he has the word Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u317	How much the government of Janez Janša shakes the stool and how panicful it is, the provisions in the PKP6 that do not belong in this PKP6 are very clear. Not only do we have a Prime Minister who deals more with Twitter and Twitter postings than we do with the epidemic and social distress that reigns in the country, but we also have a Prime Minister with a team that is preparing laws that penalise people with bills up to 12 000 euros just because they stand on the brink of crime and corruption, which are obviously two fundamental leaders of the government of Janez Janša. The panic of the government, since it has left nothing but complete dissipation and organised crime in eight months, also shows a provision that prolongs funds or accreditation to the so-called University of Jambrek. This is a private university, the New University by name, which is very closely linked to the SDS and receives €2 million a year from the state budget. Like the government of Janez Janša, he is not able to drive the country, nor is Jambrek of Janez Janša able to drive the university. And, of course, this New University does not meet the conditions for its operation and for obtaining public funds, so it should close its doors in the process of extending accreditation. But here again comes the crime and corruption of the government of Janez Janša, which, out of purely lobbyist motives, the accreditation process and verification of the university's relevance prolongs for the next few years. This should only be reviewed in the next round. Of course, otherwise, Jambrek's university should close its doors and Janša's click would lose another EUR 2 million. In the national assembly procedure, what the government is doing is political crime and legalised corruption. I will vote against the CAP6.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u318	We're voting. There are 87 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 11. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defensive proposal for a law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Simon Zajc, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u319	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, good evening! The Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency of ESA is concluded in order to further strengthen relations between the Republic of Slovenia and the ESO on the way to full membership. Slovenia started working with ESO in 2010 by signing a five-year agreement between the European participating countries. In 2016, this cooperation was enhanced by the signing of an association agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency on the promotion of cooperation for exclusively peaceful purposes between European countries in the field of space research and space technologies and their application in space, which brought the status of the associated Member State and its undertakings and its institutions into cooperation with selected ESE tenders. This status expires in December next year. In accordance with the provisions of the Agreement, a State signatory to the Agreement must be determined one year before the expiry of the Agreement for further cooperation with the European Space Agency, with two possibilities. The first is full membership of the ESI as soon as the existing agreement has expired or the conclusion of a complementary association agreement with the so-called programme for the new Member States. For full membership, the country has to meet certain conditions, namely that geographical recovery must be at least 85 %, currently Slovenia reaches 73 %, the share of industrial projects in relation to the share of institution projects must be 75 % in favour of industry, we already have 87 % and the country must also have a national space strategy published. This strategy is already being prepared by the Republic of Slovenia. On the basis of interviews with ESE representatives and in view of the current state of space technology in Slovenia, Slovenia has identified a complementary association agreement with the programme for the new Member States, which will lead to Slovenia's full membership in the ESI in 2024. The aim of the programme for the new Member States is to actively prepare the country for full membership by encouraging industry through targeted activities and calls for proposals. Slovenian companies will continue to be able to participate in all calls for optional programmes for which Slovenia will contribute financially. On the basis of this new agreement, the calls will only be issued to Slovenian companies and institutions that will fill gaps in areas where Slovenia does not pay its contribution and companies are currently unable to participate. Training and workshops will also be organised to empower Slovenian companies to participate more effectively in existing ESE calls. The participation of ESE employees in the work on MGRT and the internship of Slovenian companies or government institutions on the ESI will be possible. Under the new agreement, Slovenia's financial commitment is increasing gradually. In addition to the basic membership of just under EUR 500 000 per year and the resources for optional programmes, Slovenia will invest additional funds in the programme for the new Member States, namely 500 000 this year, 700 000 euros next year, in 2022 900 000 and in 2023 1.2 million euros. Since 2016, Slovenia has absorbed €7.7 million from approximately €9 million in ESO for projects of Slovenian companies and institutions, with several projects still in the implementation or negotiation phase. Slovenia is one of the more successful countries in drawing funds from the ESI. Participation in ESE projects is an important reference for the acquisition of other international projects and also has multiple effects. As an example, I can refer to a Slovenian company that has acquired a 400 000-euro project through the ESE and then, based on this reference, a deal of almost two million euros. About 40 companies and institutions operating in the field of space are currently identified in Slovenia. In view of the recent successful launch of the first two Slovenian satellites and forecasts of the future activities of all actors involved, there is no doubt that the space area for Slovenia presents many new opportunities. We therefore propose that the proposal for a law on ratification of the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u320	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The first shall be the Member Group of the Slovenian National Party. The position will be presented by the victory of the noble Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u321	In the Slovenian National Party, we will absolutely support this proposal for a law on ratification. After all, we Slovenians have proven that we know a lot of things. We have been involved in space programmes for a long time now, and I must say that we have achieved extraordinary success. This proves that Slovenian scientists are at least equal to any space force, of course with significantly smaller financial means. We're getting great results starting at the high school level. After all, let's see what high school has achieved with its projects supported by NASA, what our people at Joseph Stefan are accomplishing, what our students in various technological colleges are accomplishing. It would therefore be pointless if we did not support this proposal. I think it also opens the door to the difficulties for the Slovenian economy. Of course, our economists will also have to make an effort, and if any corporate option from the former forums does not block and reflect only on their own benefits, we will be able to achieve many things. We're doing a lot of things. Our people are in Cern, our people are working around the world in the best research labs and companies anywhere. The fact is, a lot of our students are going abroad because of their inability to act. This law of ratification will reject, to a certain extent, departures abroad and will allow us to develop certain projects. Start-up companies that make a breakthrough in Slovenia and then, when outside they smell that it's great money, they drag our people abroad. This is bad for the country, because we are losing intellectual potential and we are also losing economic breakthroughs and finances. Each such matter brings a lot of money, and I think the confirmation of this ratification law is very important for this matter. Once again, we will be happy to support this bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil will transfer the position of the Group of Ambassadors, List Marjan Šarc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u323	President, thank you very much. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Since the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, our country has become a member of many international organisations. It has also strengthened the situation in the international community since it is willing to cooperate and contribute to improving the situation of the country and the community regardless of the area. At that time, global development potential has thus increased. Today we are considering ratifying the Association Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the European Space Agency. The area that many people find irrelevant and perhaps unnecessary, but this particular area of the universe is one of the areas where our country can exploit its potential, both developmental and scientific research. Slovenian scientists have proven to be successful in space technology many times. In 2018 we experienced satellite development in Slovenia, and two co-financed by the country. We also funded the Trisat satellite with the help of the European Space Agency. However, scientists from the University of Maribor and the Slovenian company Skylabs took care of the development of the satellite. Their successful launch into space was thus awaited in September of this year and to congratulate once again on these successes. More in-depth cooperation and integration into the programmes of the European Space Agency will certainly provide more opportunities for Slovenian companies at European and international level. There will also be a greater opportunity to employ Slovenian scientists, both within the framework of the European Space Agency and other important institutions associated with these technologies. Finally, these communities are committed to exploring the universe, observing the earth, robot innovations and many other technologies. The European Space Agency will also offer to strengthen cooperation in programmes that contribute to the use of technology to help with natural disasters, as well as in the fight against climate change, and this is crucial. The programmes of the European Space Agency will make such an important contribution to the achievement of the objective which the entire European Union is committed to in the European Green Plan, irrespective of whether the projects are essentially linked to space research. This is also a transition to a green and digital Europe. The transition to the future, the transition to the opportunity. On the way to becoming a member of the European Space Agency in 2024, the Republic of Slovenia will also contribute to this Association Agreement. We have been working hard to do this in Slovenia since 2010. With our country's more intensive role in the field of space, Slovenia will also contribute to improving the environment and security, and most important digital progress. We therefore support such ratification of the agreement in the LMŠ Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u324	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u325	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, Secretary of State! The European Space Agency is an intergovernmental organisation that currently includes 22 members. The universe is becoming an area where economic powers, including the European Union or its Member States, are increasingly investing. Space technology can help make the Slovenian economy smart, creative and green. Space technology also represents a huge economic opportunity. It is crucial for the development of a digital society and, finally, offers the opportunity to discover new facts about the earth and the universe. The universe is an engine of economic growth and innovation. It also has positive economic effects on other industries. Today, space infrastructure enables the development of new services, new applications in areas such as meteorology, energy, telecommunications, transport, maritime and aviation. Today, the unimaginable 60% of the world economy is directly or indirectly dependent on the so-called space tools. These are satellite images, satellite tracking, internet connection and the like. Slovenia has been cooperating with the European Space Agency since 2010. In 2016, however, cooperation was enhanced by the conclusion of an Association Agreement on the promotion of cooperation for exclusively peaceful purposes. Space-related economic activity is much broader than at first sight we can imagine. For example, many high-tech and innovative companies from areas such as new materials, logistics, health care, artificial intelligence, telecommunications and other breakthrough technologies can cooperate with the space agency. In Slovenia, we have many such small and medium-sized enterprises that provide high-quality and competitive solutions and products in space technologies that successfully stand alongside competition in the global market. These companies are capable of rapid growth and great success. This autumn, for example, two Slovenian satellites were sent into space. About 40 companies and institutions operating in this area are currently identified in Slovenia. The Association Agreement, which we confirm today, will lead Slovenia to full membership in 2024. The benefits of membership are extremely broad. It is about creating business opportunities, promoting innovation, introducing new technologies, developing new products with high added value. All of this enables companies to grow, new jobs and develop long-term business partnerships. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we wish to commend all the efforts and progress that has already been made by the State in this area. The proposed law on the ratification of this Association Agreement will be unanimously supported. We are also taking advantage of this opportunity to invite and encourage Slovenian companies to take advantage of the opportunities to participate in the projects and programmes offered by their membership in this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u326	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. On behalf of the Group of Members, Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u327	Of course he'll back it up. We are also saddened by the fact that we are plebiscite when it comes to the universe, since for the time being, until we cliently painted it, when a mountain cabin is on fire. We will also support this, I will be a little personal, one of these companies is located on the same street where colleague Kaloh and I are located. And we also agree with what the nobles said. Some young men and young women have returned from Austria to work back in Maribor, although they have slightly lower wages, but because they are developing these technologies. And it saddens me that it's moving so slowly. For the first time, I met as a Member at the beginning of 2014. I can also say that I immediately called from one of the two key owners of this very well-known company. I'm not gonna tell you what he told me to keep it a secret, but I think we can speed this up a little bit. However, I would also like us to start talking not only about the benefits, but also what are the obligations of this Republic of Slovenia's involvement in the urgently needed organisations if we are to offer our grandchildren and grandchildren a decent life in all these tasks that we carry through the CAP. We'll back this up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-25-SDZ8-Izredna-49.ana.u328	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 80 votes against none. [[The vote was 80.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly.
