ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Starting the 19th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Mag. Dejan Židan, Violeta Tomić, Franz Kramar, Andrei Reich and Samo Bevk from 13:00 on. I say hello to everyone who's here! Before we move on to the 11th item of the agenda, allow me to briefly address the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues! These days, it's been 25 years since the Srebrenica genocide. This incomprehensible crime took place only 50 years after the end of World War II, which is still considered the greatest murder in human history. These days, hundreds of people go to Srebrenica, as they do every year. This year their number will be smaller for a known reason, and nothing will be less saddened by the families of over eight thousand innocent victims of the then cruel and depraved Bosnian Serb leadership. The events of a tragic war in the area of the former Yugoslavia will go on forever. The pain of a mother who lost a child is not something that disappears over time; it may withdraw from the first plan, from the heart and consciousness never. However, Srebrenica is not only a synonym for the worst crime on European soil since World War II, it is also a synonym for the inability to act on the international community, which has only monitored the situation in Bosnia and has not prevented genocide. The hell that the Srebrenica victims went through, we can't imagine. Not even the suffering, the maiming, and all the evil, but even when we look at the vast number of white monuments in the Potocari, the heart is throbbing with pain. The memory of a crime against humanity on the ground of Europe remains as alive and as painful as it would have been yesterday. There are many of us in this hall who remember the terrible news that at the height of the summer of 1995 cut off our peaceful reality and set a mirror to our indifference. Certainly there would be no crime in Srebrenica if there were not the carelessness and apathy of all who could and should prevent it. That is why all of us today have a duty to preserve our historical memory and not subject it to the slow ideological winds, if we really want this to never happen again. We must remember the innocent victims forever and put an end to the denial of duly confirmed facts about the nature of the Srebrenica crime. The borders that were crossed during the hot summer days of 1995 in Srebrenica, man, unfortunately, did not cross for the first time. But if we can't understand the tragedy of the events that have led to the crime, if we can't feel the grief of the lost lives, and if we can't condemn the ideas that have led to this extremely dark tragedy, man will continue to go beyond that limit. Let us remember now, respected colleagues and colleagues, all the victims of silver and their relatives, and let us commit ourselves, each and every one of us, to the path of humanity and peace. Let us bow to the victims of the Srebrenica genocide with a minute of silence. [[minutes of silence]] We're moving to 11. Agenda item - Intermediate report on the identification of the responsibility of public function holders on the cardiology children's programme. The interim report is 25. 3. For consideration by the Council, the Investigative Commission submitted to it on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material. There were 6 of them for the interim report. 4. 2020 attached separate opinions by then President Jelka Godec and members of Mojce Žnidarič. In order to further explain the interim report, I give the floor to the representative of the applicant to the President of the Investigative Commission of Magi. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for the president's words. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Between 2007 and 2019, there were many things, events and people that prevented good implementation and later resolution of children's cardiology programmes. The key documents that to date addressed the expertise and legality of the implementation of the programme, namely the 2012 internal audit report, the 2013 Commission's report on anti-corruption and the 2015 International Commission's report contain a number of unacceptable anomalies, systemic weaknesses and irregularities in the implementation of the programme, and even suspicions of corruption and violations of existing legislation. These findings have been tried before the public, more or less, over the years, to be put under the rug and, most importantly, no one has been responsible for them, and probably should. The authorities responsible for this and should respond to the reports, to this day, unfortunately, are not. However, about a year and a half ago, a parliamentary investigative committee was set up to examine the inefficiency of the health system in Slovenia, which is also reflected in irregularities in the implementation of health activities, namely in this particular case in the absence of a child cardiology programme to examine the inadvertentness and illegality of procurement and the management of medical equipment and medical material at secondary and tertiary levels of health activity in Slovenia. The act establishing the Parliamentary Commission therefore focuses the work of this Commission on two thematic sets, namely the Child Cardiology Programme and the purchase of medical equipment and medical material. With the interim report under consideration today, the Commission of Inquiry concludes with the first part of the investigation, namely the identification of the responsibility of the holders of public functions in the children's cardiology programme in UKC Ljubljana, carried out by the Commission under the leadership of the former President of the Commission of Inquiry by the colleague Jelka Godec. The introduction of an interim report to the National Assembly was prevented by the former President of the Commission from announcing an epidemic, which at that time distorted the work of the National Assembly. On the date of the appointment of Mrs Godec to the Government, the post of Member of Parliament and thus the position of President of the Commission of Inquiry has ceased. As the newly elected President of the Commission, I have been entrusted by the members with the task of presenting to you, as rapporteur of the Commission today, the work that has been done, which is reflected in the prepared interim report on the accountability of public officials in the children's cardiology programme, with all the key findings of the Commission resulting from this report. Two separate opinions are also submitted to the interim report. The Commission of Inquiry, within its competence and on the basis of the investigations carried out by means of a hearing of witnesses, has also made clear in today's report what the actual situation in the field of child cardiology has been in these ten years. In doing so, the Commission drew attention to irregularities with a view to amending the legislation, revealed the objective political responsibility of former Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc and former State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, Dr. Anne Medved, who, with their political influence on the human resources and professional decisions of UKC Ljubljana, had not resolved children's cardiology in the past as they should. In the report, the Commission also submits a statement of suspicions of criminal services for the former Director-General of UKC Ljubljana mag. Simon the High. The key findings of the parliamentary investigation are summarised in the 33 points of the report, which the Investigative Commission also proposes to the National Assembly, together with the referral decision. In view of the time limit, in this introductory part of this essential conclusion of the parliamentary investigation, I will simply summarize them and, of course, I will then present them in more detail in the discussion below. But for this purpose I must first return to 2007 when in UKC Ljubljana practically lost one child heart surgeon overnight. In the children’s heart surgery program, the first major problems and irregularities began to occur. In the UKC Ljubljana Children's Heart Surgery Programme, Dr. Mishaly, an Israeli surgeon, began to perform these interventions without the license of the Medical Chamber and on the basis of the author's contracts, although his work was not legally possible as a work of art. Doctors who treated small patients prior to or after surgery have soon begun to point out the long-term absence of a surgeon, as this did not ensure safe treatment of children from the point of view of timely execution of possible re-operative operations. After the contract was concluded, a guest Israeli surgeon as chief surgeon for children with congenital heart failure in UKC Ljubljana was present only 3 to 6 days a month, and the rest of the time these children were left with two specialists first, and then one specialist in cardiac surgery, who was not supposed to be able and unable to perform more difficult operations and solve complications. Since many warnings from doctors for the safety of small children were not taken into account by UKC Ljubljana, doctors filed an objection to conscience in December 2013 and stopped cooperating with UKC Ljubljana. Later, the international report on child heart surgery, which in fact represents a sort of turning point in the entire story in the children's heart surgery environment as the main and essential finding, highlighted the very long-term absence of the chief surgeon, which has led to this programme being assessed as dangerous, unethical and completely unacceptable for children in the period 2007-2014. The lowest rating was unacceptable for the program in 20 of the 34 international standards for handling children with congenital heart failure. Inadequate care for patients who are suspicious of the death of children, failure to respond to those who are responsible despite warning of maladministration. 15% of the missing documentation on individual operations and non-relationship of data in the international register is just one of the most shocking findings that we can read more about in the 2015 international report. However, before that, in May 2013, the Commission also took note of its opinion on the implementation of the programme to prevent corruption, which, inter alia, stated in its report that the implementation of the programme fulfilled the signs of corruption. Everything since 2012 has also been known about the event by the Slovenian Medical Chamber, which takes care, inter alia, of the ethical behaviour of doctors and the reputation and time of the medical profession. In addition to professional questions on how to treat a child with congenital heart failures, the program also raised issues of values, rights and responsibility. The Investigative Commission notes that the Presidents of the Chambers were aware of the issue, but their role in solving the problem was only seen at the level of the implementation of professional controls, which were more or less self-intentioned. The chamber, which could otherwise act, preferred to wink. Its response to the International Commission’s catastrophic report has also been suppressed, and the Commission of Inquiry proposes to consider in the future the importance of the Chamber in resolving doctoral disputes, as well as the appointment of suitable supervisors in the clinic and the professional directors of public health institutions. A special role in maintaining the implementation of the programme has also been played by the expert council and the Council of the UKC Ljubljana Institute, with the Commission in these bodies taking note of the strong political influence of the founder, i.e. the state, their functioning and the appointment of people to the leading positions, and the legislative and executive branches in this area propose amending legislation. Notwithstanding all the findings of the expert controls which have proven the programme to be dangerous and even corrupt, both the public authorities have demarcated the findings of the anti-corruption commission and made it possible for the programme to be further implemented. Neither did the Ministry of Health, which started with political influences in 2017 to engage in the professional, human resources and management decisions of UKC Ljubljana, for which the Commission of Inquiry notes that Milojka Kolar Celarc as Minister of Health and Dr Ana Medved as State Secretary at this Ministry are objectively, politically responsible as then holders of public functions. In addition to objective political responsibility, the Commission shall, within its findings on the basis of the investigations carried out in the interim report, also issue a statement of suspicions of criminal services for mag. Simon the High. On the basis of the evidence produced, the Commission of Inquiry has reason to believe that it is a mag. Simon Vrhunec as Director-General and thus as the responsible person of UKC Ljubljana violated the obligation to act when he knowingly allowed Dr. Mishaly to perform operations on the wrong legal basis without the right license and work permit. In the view of the Commission of 257 and 257.a. of the Criminal Code, it is intended to abuse the official position or official rights and to enable the unlawful or unintentional use of public funds, although it may have anticipated whether or not it should and could have assumed that public funds may result in property damage. Your Honor! What has happened in all these years is simply unacceptable. It is one of the worst and never-ending affairs in the Ljubljana Clinical Centre, so it is right that, within the framework of the legislative powers that the parliamentary commission has and on the basis of which an interim report has been prepared and on the Commission has already been adopted, with all the essential findings and referrals to the National Assembly, today we also accept this message or report and thus make it a step forward for the competent institutes to take this story seriously. By adopting the decision, the interim report would therefore be forwarded to the competent crime detection and prosecution authorities, namely the National Investigation Office and the specialised State Prosecutor's Office, to carry out their work in this tragic story of the failure of the children's cardiology programme. Nothing means parliamentary investigation and its work or investigation of detected irregularities if in the end we do not have a proper epilogue. Therefore, respected colleagues, respected colleagues, this is a very sensitive topic in which there must be no room for political populism. I therefore expect to continue, in particular, a professional and constructive debate on the Commission's findings in the prepared report. However, I would also like us to accept today both the essential findings of the investigation and the referral decision of the Commission of Inquiry, as this is the only way to prevent such illegal stories from being repeated in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. To explain my opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Jerneji Farkaš Lainščak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u4	Honourable President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The Ministry of Health took note of the interim report on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders on the children's cardiology programme with two separate opinions on the interim report, as well as the proposal for a decision on the intention to indicate the suspicion of the crime to be referred to at this meeting of the National Assembly. Let us explain that the Ministry of Health at the initiative of the Health Committee of 15. 3. 2019 carried out systematic monitoring at the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases - NISB. The control period covered time from 21. 12. 2017, when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision establishing NISB until the start of the liquidation, i.e. 14. 6. 2019, which is the day following the adoption of the Government's decision on the commencement of its liquidation. In doing so, we have also presented a brief summary of our report to the Committee on Health in accordance with Article 10 of the Health Administration Regulation. Taking into account the duty of notifying the suspicion of criminal services to the National Bureau of Investigation at the Ministry of the Interior and the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, two separate opinions were submitted to the interim report on determining the liability of public officials in the Children's Cardiology Programme. First on the part of Jelka Godec, President of the Commission of Inquiry, who, in addition to the announcement of political responsibility to key holders of public functions, also indicates their personal responsibility. The second separate opinion of the member of the Commission of Inquiry, Mojce Žnidarič, shows disagreement with the Commission's findings and the appropriateness of the established ways of solving problems with child cardiology and heart surgery in Slovenia. The introduction of several different types of control and investigation in the past, including extraordinary administrative supervision, which was directed by current Minister of Health Tomaž Gantar in his first term in 2013, is clear evidence that the problem of child cardiology and heart surgery has been a long history. During the entire period, the event was marked by an intensive media report on the experience of healthcare professionals and parents of children with congenital heart failure, regarding medical treatment, reported safety deficiencies and the expenditure of key specialist doctors. At the time of the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, the primary purpose of its operation was to improve and regulate the state of the child's cardiology programme in the integrated sense in which Prof. Igor Gregorič made the most effort. As a highly qualified specialist in child heart surgery, he wanted to transfer knowledge, experience and good practice to Slovenia, especially since Slovenia lacks both paediatric cardiologists and heart surgeons for children. It is true, however, that such a solution to the problem has by no means proved to be complete, in particular with regard to the assessment of resources, financial, material, spatial and, above all, human resources. At the end of 2017, a temporary solution to the problem was seen only in the establishment of a new public institution, namely NISB, outside of the broken relationships at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana with a clear purpose of optimal medical treatment of patients with congenital heart failures, children with other heart and blood disorders, and the continuous development of comprehensive treatment of these patients. In fact, there is no institution in Slovenia that would not give its opinion or be invited to this public health institution, i.e. NISB. Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia, Health Inspectorate, Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, Information Officer, Public Sector Inspectorate, Court of Auditors, Ombudsman and Office of Complaints at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana under the Law on Patient Rights. At the Ministry of Health, we are making every effort to ensure the well-being of patients and to improve Slovenian health care, which is all too often shown with our finger, although the international criterion is still at a high level. The system has its shortcomings, including open wounds, but this does not mean that we cannot solve future problems in the field of the children's cardiology programme. At this point, however, we must note that we cannot resolve these problems in a partial way, but we must strive for greater integration at more than one level. This is the provision of adequate personnel, a spatial solution. In this context, we refer in particular to the prior division of premises and equipment as in the original solution with NISB, which was not optimal. We must be aware that we must not and cannot solve similar problems in the media by washing dirty laundry and defending potential personal interests, where the youngest heart patients, their relatives and, finally, the profession are the shortest. At the Ministry of Health, we will continue to pay a lot of attention to child cardiology and heart surgery issues, and through constructive dialogue, both at the professional and political level, we will seek the best possible solutions, avoiding the bad practices that the reports you are facing today show.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Left Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u6	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. Everyone in the hall, in front of small screens and radio receivers, nice greeting! The interim report we have on the table is prepared in a good manner of totalitarian reports, where the judgment is already known at the beginning, only a good basis for this needs to be found. Of course, in such a difficult case as child heart surgery, it is not difficult to find it. The report is biased, in the sense that it lists only evidence and testimony that are in favour of the final conclusion, but completely ignores the testimony and the documents that contradict this conclusion. However, despite this implementation of the arguments presented in the report, it is impossible to support the conclusion of the objective political responsibility of only the then Minister, Mrs Milojka Kolar Celarc, and the State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, Dr Ana Medved. The report already notes, in points 2 and 3 of the final joint conclusions, responsibilities, both in the field of purely professional decision-making, in the area of governance and governance, in the field of professional and ethical control, as well as at the political level. And this chaotic entanglement can be seen all the way to the perception of the problem that the report and the Commission have been time-consuming since 2007, although the matter has been complicated since 2004, after the then departure of the head of child heart surgery, followed by three years of cooperation by doctors from Bratislava. So everyone on their own level and within their powers is responsible for the accumulation of problems that at some point escalated completely to the greatest detriment of those who should be most protected, that is, our children. Clearly, this framework also includes political responsibility, but this objective political responsibility rests with each minister, minister, secretary of state and secretary during the investigation period, from 2007 to 2018, and through them, governments and the first ministers, who had to make decisive moves to solve the problem, but did not. The theme of child cardiology should have been completed a long time ago. The reason that it is not is to use the topic to moralise the SDS political group. The problem would not have grown if healthcare personnel policies and health-care activities had been aligned with needs and responded in a timely manner to the warnings that were coming. And things started to get very complicated within the framework of the first government run by the SDS. But the problem is deeper and growing from the foundations laid by neoliberal approaches to regulating the area of health care, shared by a wide range of policies, past and present. Therefore, later, the concealment of a long-standing inadequate human resources policy and insufficient funding or better control over financing by copying professional solutions from a country with slightly more than 300 million inhabitants, where health financing is completely different, did not produce any fruit, which could have been foreseen at the starting point if only the project had been assessed with a few distances. If anyone is responsible for the policy that has been in power in Slovenia for the last 30 years. As early as 2015, the Supervisory Board found that the children’s heart surgery programme had been implemented between 2007 and 2014 by jeopardising the safety of children’s patients. And at that time, the SDS party was in power twice. At the beginning of 2012, a report of the internal audit was published in the mandate of the second Janšev government, when the Minister of Health, as today, Mr Tomaž Gantar, was the Minister of Health, which showed that a doctor from Israel did not train Slovenian surgeons. The government did not act, although the public was indignant at the extremely high fees of a foreign doctor who received payments despite the failure to comply with the contractual obligations. The fact that the SDS is running such a commission or an investigator in the first place is therefore at odds with any logic. Public health has been poor for all those involved in state policy, but the SDS has been effective at this. At the time of their first government, health resources were lagging behind in economic growth. In 2007, the share of public health resources relative to the social product was lowest in the last 20 years – 7.8%. The money then went to Patrie, today they do the same with the military and invest 780 million euros, and health care must satisfy the epidemic with big words and get nothing. But from the big words our health care can't live, it will continue to fall. Even now, the shortage of nurses and technicians is alarming. While it is not difficult for the ruling to give the margin to the economic February – and I am not talking here about the fair price of a product – which is always defined as an investment, any attempt to increase funds so that the work of nurses and technicians can be evaluated more justly through the prism of costs. It is said for this government, and for this country, medical technicians and nurses are a cost. Incomprehensible. Another Janšev government then struck another blow to the health care sector when it reduced funds for it by the ZUJF and also prohibited the employment of doctors and other health workers. By 5%, they also reduced the share of services covered by compulsory health insurance. The money from this address went directly into the hands of commercial insurance companies. Complementary health insurance premiums have risen and the weakest have again paid the highest price. In doing so, the legal adjustments made it possible to outsource and work through S.p., author contracts and so on. In this way, Slovenian health needs to increase budgetary resources, which are comparatively still relatively low. The Health Insurance Office warns that in December, there will be no money left to finance the programmes. The expected years of the epidemic will not decrease, on the contrary. We need an end to the loss and injustice of supplementary insurance, and we need a phase-out of concessions. Above all, we need adequate planning for education and for the organisation of staff. None of this is possible if health care is left to the market, which is once again the purpose of this current government. These are objective political reasons why problems have arisen in child heart surgery - for the first time, underfunding and for the second time, failure to respond to problems. Therefore, it is not possible to conclude, as in point 17 of the conclusion of the common conclusions, that the policy reached out to UKC Ljubljana’s professional and management decisions in 2017, as the dictatorship points out that this did not mean that the findings on interference should indicate an exchange of supervisors in 2017 — messages on pages 112 to 113. Of course, to a certain extent any change in supervisors, interference of policy with professional staff and management work, which is therefore not only applicable to the case in question, is inappropriate and unacceptable. Again, the set of those who fall out or who fall out is much wider than that presented in the partial report. [[Incomprehensible]] For example, until 2009 UKC Ljubljana was headed by the Director and the Professional Director, who was appointed the first Janševa government, who also had the powers to appoint supervisors. Are not all those who held the functions mentioned during the period considered, including all decision makers at national policy level, objectively responsible for the situation? But in this partial interim report, not even a letter. In the 20th point of the conclusions, the interim report also touches on the role of whistleblowers, which is very general and must be attached. I quote: "In the Slovenian health system and society in general, we should deny a key dilemma which is either whether employees are employed in state irregularities in their organisation and whether the employer owes loyalty and obedience due to employment and should not also disclose the most illegal and unethical conduct". [[Incomprehensible]] In view of the events that have taken place since the adoption of the report by the Commission, the question is, of course, whether such a dictatorship would still be supported today. After events with the most famous Slovenian whistleblower at the moment, Mr Galet, these state enemies are unfortunately number one, but they should be the first to help the country. And we should even come to some conclusion that there are good and bad whistles, at least according to SDS. But who's in charge of the judgment on the goodness of a whistleblower? Is the whistle only good if it whistles in favour of the current SDS political agenda? The question is also whether the conclusion set out in point 32 that Slovenia does not provide a critical mass of children in the field of congenital heart disease, which will ensure the safe and financially sustainable implementation of such a programme, is sustained according to history. The importance of maintaining the most difficult knowledge on domestic soils has gained a completely different weight since the last Coronation of the virus. How to ensure a professional standard on the number of operations needed to maintain the condition of a child cardiosurgeon is, of course, another issue that is without linking to other similar emergencies such as the pandemic, it is said that it is important that on the ground of the country we have adequately qualified professionals with special knowledge. Here, too, this country and the government should invest. What, then, does our health emergency need? It's a change of perception by the rulings. First, an analysis of the needs and adjustment of financial inputs to the needs of the population. Also ensuring effective and rapid deployment to countries of automated transmission of reports assessed as critical to the Ministry, in short, for better quality assurance and digitisation. However, we must not overlook the need to immediately suspend supplementary health insurance and its transfer under basic insurance, which also needs to be refreshed in the direction of increasing solidarity between the various social layers of society and for the entire generation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. A colleague of Iva Dimic for the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u8	Your Honor, after a ten-minute performance by a colleague from the Left, it is time to return to the 11th item of the agenda. The Commission of Inquiry shall establish the responsibility of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and handling of medical equipment and medical material at its 1st emergency meeting. 2. 2019 unanimously decided to conduct a parliamentary inquiry into the implementation of the children's cardiology programme. At the same time, it agreed to prepare an interim report on this and then move on to the second part of the parliamentary investigation. We have this in front of us today. This is the identification of responsibility in the field of procurement and handling with medical equipment and medical material. The Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology and Management Programme with Medical Equipment and Medical Material was decided at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia 20. 12. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. By means of an act of designation, the National Assembly set out the purpose of the investigation at 40 points. Let me mention only some of the most important ones and have also proved to be the most beautiful. Firstly, to identify the potential political responsibility of public function holders and the responsibility of public function holders in health institutions responsible for the implementation of the child cardiology programme in the Republic of Slovenia for the exercise of programme control. Identify the potential political responsibility of public function holders and the responsibility of public function holders in health institutions responsible for the implementation of the child cardiology programme in the Republic of Slovenia, which is intended to participate in irregular and harmful decisions regarding the organisation and expertise of the work process and the quality and safety of work in the children's heart surgery programme. To determine the possible political responsibility due to the suspicion of abandoning the duty to seek solutions for the implementation of the Child Cardiology Programme following the publication of an international comprehensive report on emergency professional supervision on the Children's Heart Surgery Programme and to continue to allow for irregularities in the treatment of children with heart failure. The purpose of the commission of inquiry is also to identify the reasons for the massive departure of professional staff from the treatment of children with congenital heart failure from institutions performing the health care of children's cardiology in the Republic of Slovenia. To determine whether the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease of NISB, which in the year did not start with regular operation despite the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide that due to the situation in the field of carrying out the activities of the treatment of children and adults with congenital heart problems and other heart and cardiovascular diseases, the UKC Ljubljana Centre for the Treatment of Children and Adults with Congenital Cardiac Mistakes and Other Heart and Resilience Disorders is formed as a separate public health institution. To determine the possible liability of former and current public function holders in institutions carrying out health activities at secondary and tertiary levels of health activities in the Republic of Slovenia related to the purchase of medical equipment and medical material due to suspicion of abandonment of duty and decisions that led to reckless and illegal purchases. The Commission of Inquiry took into account the evidentiary decision of 1 February 2019 and the additions of 7 March and 27 April 2019 also heard witnesses. The Commission of Inquiry also received an anonymous package received by members only for information. However, since it includes protected data, it was in the protected drawer. Key findings: In its work, the Commission of Inquiry followed the points adopted in the Act establishing the Commission of Inquiry. Patients with congenital heart failure are treated at specialised tertiary centres in Slovenia in UKC Ljubljana. To treat a child with a heart error involving specialist cardiologists, pediatricians, cardiologists internists, cardiosurgeons and Intensiveists. From this point of view, it is very important that the links between clinics or clinical departments where children are treated at a high level are organisational and, above all, professional. In UKC Ljubljana we have two clinics that employ specialist doctors for treated children with congenital heart failures, this is the Paediatric Clinic and the Cardiology Service, where cardiologists are working, cardiologists internists and surgical clinics, the Clinical Department for Heart and Respiratory Surgery, where cardiosurgeons work and the Clinical Department for Child Surgery and intensive therapy, the intensive therapy unit, where intensive therapy works. This is because it is very important how their personal relationships also affected the development and event of child heart surgery. Until May 2019, the departments were not organisationally connected within the meaning of one unit. Medical professionals in the field of child cardiosurgery met at regular assemblies and other professional meetings. But they weren't connected to one organizational unit. The paediatric service is expected to operate smoothly until 2018 in the sense that there have been no departures from key specialist doctors, which is not the case for the child’s heart surgery, which has been a continuous part of the surgical clinic, the clinical department for heart and blood surgery. In UKC Ljubljana, the surgical program is supposed to treat congenital heart failures from the very beginning at a high professional level. On average, 250 children with heart failure received annual medical and surgical care. Major complications are expected to begin with the illness and departure of the head of the children’s surgery programme in 2004 and the decline in the number of interventions. The management of UKC Ljubljana then sought assistance from the Minister of Health abroad and hired Dr. Vladimir Sojak, who remained the only heart surgeon until 2007. At the end of October 2007, Dr. Sojak left UKC Ljubljana, leaving UKC Ljubljana practically overnight without a cardiac surgeon. The reports detail the events following Dr. Sojak’s departure from Dr. Mishaly’s employment until 2014. As the program did not move the children treated with congenital heart failures from a dead point, the discontent of cardiologists grew. The testimony of individual witnesses shows the inability to solve the problems at the time, probably because of the decision or failure of the then Director General of Magi. Simona Vrhunc and the professional director Drnovšek Olup. From the testimony of individual doctors and correspondence between individuals, the real question is whether all the proposals, the conclusions that are to be proposed and adopted to improve the child’s heart surgery programme, have been adopted with a genuine intention to resolve the matter. There is no doubt that the high level of risk was also affected by private interest. As a result, the UKC Ljubljana Expert Council already invited all stakeholders in the programme under consideration in 2013 to establish a proper relationship and especially ceiling communication at the academic level, as is the case with the top medical profession. So, their relationship, their communication was unheard of, unacceptable. Certainly, however, not all events are known to the general public, for as the Magi said in the hearing. Kalan, as he explained his decision regarding his application to object to the conscience, quote: “What else led us to object to the conscience? Perfect ignorance of leadership. All our reasoned warnings and suggestions were ignored. It ignored everything except the serious complications of the treatment. It ignored the professional controls that pointed to the errors of the internal audit programme, and the external institutions that said something about the programme, such as the KPK, were also warned by the Ministry at that time, and nothing happened. There have been problems with the paperwork. For example, an operating record. This is the document that the surgeon describes what he did. As a rule, and this is an international standard, this record shall be written within one hour of intervention. This document is the basis of operational treatment and on this part it is based work and communication with the surgeon, pediatrician and all other stakeholders, because this is a very complex and interdisciplinary treatment. These records came in a few days, not a few hours, but some never did. This was during the time of Dr. Mishalya.” The additional moment – this is the most interesting – according to Dr. Kalana, which happened after 2012, was the media campaign. “In the media and social networks, we were invited mainly by pediatricians of the Intensive, that we were all human beings. The management of the clinic didn't protect us. Moreover, we had to seek legal aid ourselves, legal offices, to at least partially defend us from these attacks." End quote. Lets a man think he can pull some parallels for attacks on doctors in the crown of time. In its reply of 12 March 2014 to the Commission on Medical Ethics, the Commission noted that the protest mentioned had been decided when they had taken advantage of all other legal options to improve the situation not only for themselves but mainly for small patients. All doctors who objected continued to carry out their duties. In 2014, several controls were carried out - extraordinary internal professional supervision, administrative supervision - which showed irregularities and imposed on UKC Ljubljana management to prepare an action plan to address the causes of the inadequate state of play in the implementation of the programme and to ensure its consistent implementation and to report on implementation to the Ministry of Health. The report of the International Commission on Evaluation 2007-2014 on the activities of child heart surgery in UKC Ljubljana was issued on 9 July 2015, I am talking about the findings of the International Commission. The Commission made the following observations: for the first time, a small number of surgical interventions per year in children’s heart surgery activities in Ljubljana; a lack of reliable entry of data into the EACTS Registry, also pointed out by Dr Kalan that there was no introduction and no documentation was available; for the third time, significant deviations from the international published guidelines and standards of care in children’s heart surgery with questionable results of surgical procedures. The Commission concluded that the safety of children's heart patients in children's heart surgery activities in Slovenia was seriously threatened between 2007 and 2014. The agony of child heart surgery then continued until 2017. We were all witnesses, many meetings were held in the National Assembly, many conclusions were taken, but matters were not resolved and were not resolved, at least not sufficiently. In 2017, the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease was established, raising a lot of dust within the healthcare staff, as it was also warned in writing that the implementation of the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, as presented to them, was not feasible. The documents show that the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease was wrongly established and operated by the Council of the UKC, the ZZZS and the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, which indicated that doctors who came from abroad and were employed by the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases were not registered in the Register of Doctors. The financing of the activities of NISB was also questionable, and the permission to operate as a foreign doctor was signed by Dr. Medved, State Secretary. We all advocate taking care of children with congenital heart failures in a way that will be as safe as possible. What needs to be done has been said by the international commission. As matters got out of control and were politically resolved by child heart surgery instead of professionally, responsibility for former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and State Secretary Dr. Medved and former director of UKC mags fell. Simon the High. Members of the New Slovenia – The Christian Democrats will support the interim report, of course, in the hope that investigations into child heart cardiology will receive an epilogue in due course, as the cases and investigations in the venous resistors have not even begun, despite the fact that the conclusions have been adopted in the National Assembly. Thus, it remains a bitter taste that in our country we are not all the same in front of law enforcement authorities – these are the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor’s Office – and that we are not all the same and that double criteria apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The text is by the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek, a colleague of Vojko Starović.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! The health situation, as we have all determined for many years, is not good. The epidemic that we are witnessing has highlighted it. Irregularities in the procurement of material, lack of health personnel, inadequate system financing, waiting periods that continue to extend, staffing and corruption. We agree that changes are necessary, especially if we want to preserve and not only public but also quality health. In recent years, we have witnessed quite a few acts of authority that, instead of benefiting the health system, have caused him additional unnecessary problems, including those that are the subject of this investigative commission and intermediates. I would like to stress, unlike my colleague Iva, who went in there in detail, that the Commissions of Inquiry have the task of identifying political responsibility rather than professional, organisational and other matters, so that we have little chance of coming here. But we have witnessed these moves, so the establishment of this national institution for children's heart disease, which did not happen and was eventually abolished. Then we took immediate action in our mandate of fire, so we enabled foreign doctors from third countries to work without a recognised professional qualification and a medical license. All of this has led to the establishment of this parliamentary commission, whose interim report is before us today. In the SAB Group, health care is one of those areas which, unfortunately, is also heavily subject to corruption, in particular in the light of the interest groups, individuals and businesses that generate quite good profits at the expense of the public health system in the area of the purchase of medical devices, implantable materials and medical equipment. The latter also proved to be true in the case of the acquisition of masks and respiratory agents during the COVID epidemic. Ironically, the founder of the investigative commission in question, which also led an investigative commission in the past mandate in the area of purchasing vascular resistors, has now allowed such irregularities in the procurement of protective masks and respirators during the epidemic, by the State Secretary in the Office of the President of the Government responsible for health care and the great fight against corruption, Mrs Jelka Godec. These have been botched by house investigations and even by the Minister of Economy. Obviously, almost no one is immune to disputed practices in the purchase of health equipment, but I must tell you that this last affair could be largely avoided if we supported our proposal for a specific budget fund, because at any time it would be absolutely clear how much our country paid and where the funds came from. This would pursue the objective of economic, transparent and legal spending of public funds. We condemn any corruption in the SAB Group, especially when it comes to unintended use and damage to public funds in such a sensitive area as health care, and we will therefore support both of the proposed conclusions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, colleague Ivan Hršak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! We have before us an interim report on the accountability of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme, whose investigation focuses on the period 2007 to 2018. In accordance with its competences, the interim report was prepared by the parliamentary investigative committee, which was designated at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly 20. 12. 2018, with a view to drawing up proposals to amend the legislation and other decisions of the National Assembly under its jurisdiction and to establish the political and other responsibilities of public function holders in health institutions in Slovenia. In the Desus Group, we are aware of the importance of responsible and professional decisions at all levels of social life. As advocates of the rights of older and more vulnerable groups, we have always sought solutions to eliminate possible irregularities and injustices and to improve the situation in both pension and health care. We take health too often as a matter of course. The importance of the word relationship “be healthy” is usually known only when it is broken and affected by an invisible force, which we have witnessed in recent months. Then we look at health care and health workers with other eyes. At that time, we all want adequate quality and immediate health care. Our youngest deserve such care in the first place. Members of the Desus Group merely addressed the issue of child cardiology, child heart cardiology with the utmost seriousness. If there is, then the treatment of children with congenital heart failure is an area where there is no room for political accounting, but must prevail over professionalism, teamwork and the highest level of safety and appropriate cooperation and flow of information with parents and guardians. Caring for small patients must be a priority. However, the country and individuals in leading professional functions must ensure that this priority is implemented equally accessible to all, regardless of the time of the year, regardless of possible conflicts within health institutions and at least in terms of political colours. All patients in need of adequate, quality and safe medical care should also receive the latter. Both in the interim report and in separate opinions, which form an integral part of the report, we can see different spectrums in thinking and also different visions of recorded responsibilities. Members of the Desus Group will vote on the interim report in their conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Ms Nada Brinovšek for the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Ambassadors has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Good day to you all! At its 3rd regular meeting in December 2018, the National Assembly commissioned a parliamentary inquiry into the implementation of child cardiology programmes and reckless and illegal purchases and the management of medical equipment and health material. The purpose of the establishment of this Commission of Inquiry was to develop proposals to amend the legislation, to present an assessment and to identify the actual situation in this area and to identify the possible political responsibility of public function holders in health establishments at secondary and tertiary level. In the Slovenian Democratic Party of Slovenia, since 2015, when an international report on the implementation of the children's heart surgery programme in UKC Ljubljana was presented to the public, we have mainly warned the Ministry of Health about agony, which was taking place in the children's heart surgery programme. Why do I call agony? UKC Ljubljana was once a respected centre for the treatment of children with congenital heart failures. In 2004, children’s heart surgery began to show signs of vulnerability due to the departure of the then head of the children’s heart surgery program, which was the only trained child heart surgeon at the time. The UKC Ljubljana then hired a heart surgeon from Bratislava in 2004 and left UKC Ljubljana in December 2007. Following the departure of this Czech surgeon in December 2007, UKC Ljubljana concluded an author contract with Israeli surgeon Michali, who did not have a suitable licence, meaning that he was not committed, among other things, to taking responsibility for his work. This means that the medical documentation relating to his operations was signed by one of the home doctors. In doing so, let me remind you of the testimony of Dr. Gregorič, who lives in America and works there, before the commission of inquiry regarding this signing. I quote: "The signature of a home doctor under Dr. Michali's operational intervention is a crime for our notions in America." In January 2012, the public upsets the information that UKC Ljubljana paid almost EUR 1 million to this Israeli heart surgeon within 4 years for operations under the copyright contract for work performed by this surgeon for only 3 to a maximum of 6 days per month. The relationship between doctors was getting worse and, as a result, mediation was determined in January 2012 due to internal disputes, which failed. In September 2012 UKC Ljubljana also leaves Slovenia's doctor, who was educated under the auspices of an Israeli heart surgeon, because at least according to him, his professional work and education were disabled. In January 2013, internal professional supervision is followed due to the death case. No one responded to the findings of professional supervision. In May 2013, the KPK found that the UKC had violated the applicable legislation regarding paid copyright fees to an Israeli doctor who did not have a Slovenian work licence. No one's reacting again. During the first half of 2014, the Medical Chamber of Slovenia appoints the International Commission for Extraordinary Professional Oversight to carry out the medical activities of child heart surgery in the years 2007-2014. the International Supervisory Commission, which carried out this professional, extraordinary professional supervision, concluded in its July 2015 report that the safety of children's heart patients in Slovenia was seriously threatened in the period 2007-2014 and that the problems that have accumulated since 2007 had an impact on the outcome of the treatment and on the disastrous relationship between employees in the UKC. Cardiologists and intensifiers warned about the wrong behavior of colleagues in the program. They pointed out systemic shortcomings and non-implementation of conclusions adopted at the professional level. The supervisors of the pediatric and surgical clinic, the professional management of UKC Ljubljana and the Director General of UKC Ljubljana, the Medical Chamber, the Ministry of Health, the Anti-Corruption Commission and so on were warned. However, at the beginning of 2017, the then professional director of UKC Ljubljana proposed discharge of the professional director of the pediatric clinic on the basis of exceptional professional supervision. He was to blame for the poor working conditions at the clinic, which led to a number of complications. The expert director of UKC Ljubljana said before the investigative committee: “The management of the cardiology service was inappropriate – there were no visits, there were no meetings, there was no supervision and there was no teamwork”. However, the then Minister of Health intervened in this discharge process and, of course, the director of the Paediatric Clinic was not dismissed or at least called to account. Regarding the political staffing of the Minister of Health, the former Executive Director of UKC Ljubljana told her and then the Director General of UKC Ljubljana at the Ministry of Health that they were brainwashed and prevented from being dismissed by the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic, who, in her opinion, was objectively responsible for a number of complications at the Paediatric Clinic. I will quote: after this event, a proposal for the discharge of the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic has been withdrawn by the Director General of UKC Ljubljana. In June, we again demanded the resignation of the director of the Paediatric Clinic. At that time, a universal psychological and other war began. The following day, the Minister of Health requested the resignation of the Director-General and the Director-General. End of quote. Nehote is probably asking us all a question here, asking why the minister then valued each of us as the professional director of the Paediatric Clinic. And why did you have to leave then, the CEO and the expert director, who had to point out the problems. In December 2017, after almost two, three years of agony, the Government, with a decision in December, established a National Institute for Children's Heart Disease, which is expected to be operational in May 2018. So the government has decided and set up another public institution, according to the National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases, although this programme has already been implemented at UKC Ljubljana, the founder of which was also the Government. We got another public office. But this newly established institution has not brought a solution. He's made everything even more complicated. The situation in the field of the implementation of children's heart disease programmes at UKC Ljubljana has only deteriorated. Cardiologists, surgeons, intensifiers and nurses were leaving. In short, all these doctors left at the end of 2017 and early in 2018 due to poor relationships and poor working conditions. And so the new institute didn't seem to get home-grown experts. Foreign experts who have come to Ljubljana also have poor relationships between doctors at UKC Ljubljana and at the National Institute have only increased. In May 2018, we again requested the SDS Group to convene an extraordinary meeting on the situation of treated children with congenital heart failure. At that meeting, UKC Ljubljana’s Director-General said that the problem that arises in children’s heart surgery, intensity and surgery is a national problem. The former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Ana Medved, was of a different opinion and said at this meeting, I will quote her, she said: I will be brief today. Why? I estimate that today's meeting is unnecessary if not even harmful. End of quote. And when we asked her why the government had established the National Institute, I quote: Why? Because the problems have been dragging for more than 10 years and because the problems have not solved the mediation between employees, which cost EUR 31 000 and lasted two years. Human relations were poor, and there was no transfer of urgent professional information on patients between doctors, which is essential for safe and quality-treated patients, so both doctors and nurses and other staff left the department. So it was necessary to start building a house on new foundations that she said. In her view, it was therefore necessary to build a new house instead of calling those responsible for the situation to account. However, according to the testimony before the Commission of Inquiry, the human factor and not the house were the cause of all problems. In 2017 the Minister of Health included Prof. Dr. Gregorič from America in the resolution of the program of a child with congenital heart failure and the establishment of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease. The National Institute should start its operation on 1 May 2018, as originally or at a later stage, well, this did not happen, it did not even start its operation 1. Seven. 2018, as confirmed by the former Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health at the regular meeting of the National Assembly in June 2018. The fact is that the operation of the National Institute was complicated by the transfer of equipment, personnel and software from UKC Ljubljana to the Institute. It was even more complicated when the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia refused to finance the programme of children's heart surgery to the National Institute for 2018. The National Institute received €165,000 of start-up funds for its operation or non-action by the State budget in 2018 and was allocated an additional €1.7 million from the State budget in late August. Well, in December 2018, former Minister of Health Sam Fakin decided to remain under the auspices of UKC Ljubljana. Of course, this raises a question about which decision is right now, if any, and who is responsible for the wrong decisions, and they certainly were. And that is why we have made a request in the National Investigations Commission to determine who are the holders of public functions, who were responsible for the situation and wrong decisions; why doctors have been mass leaving UKC Ljubljana; why the authorities have not responded to the international report, professional supervision, the KPK report and so on; and why the Government has established this National Institute for Children's Heart Diseases in the previous term without any prior analysis. The parliamentary commission of inquiry sought to identify the causes of the unsustainable situation from 2007 to 2019 through the hearings of the witnesses and through the official material obtained, and the reasonableness or justification of the establishment of a stand-alone National Institute. On the basis of 68 witnesses interviewed and on the basis of their testimony, the Commission summarized their conclusions in 33 points of the Interim Report on the responsibilities of public function holders in the Children's Cardiology Programme. In the interim report, the section of the General Conclusion chronologically describes the way in which the treatment of children with congenital heart failures in Slovenia works. The facts recorded in this report, together with the investigative actions carried out, public interviews with witnesses and interviews with witnesses closed to the public, show the inability of individuals acting and alerting to systemic errors in the programme to demonstrate the abuse of the official position in relation to the illegal or even unintentional use of the public funds of the former director of UKC Ljubljana and to identify the objective political responsibility of the former minister and the State Secretary for Health. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we agree with both the essential findings of the interim report and the proposal to conclude that the interim report shall be forwarded to the National Investigation Office and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office as a statement of the suspicions of crime and that the RS Special Prosecutor's Office shall report regularly on progress made in the prosecution of crimes in this case. The Commission of Inquiry, led by the then President, Mrs Jelka Godec, has done a great deal of work and has also reached important conclusions which will be of great help to the investigating authorities. We hope and only wish that the story of the vascular test committee has not been repeated, where nothing has happened since more than three years by the investigating authorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The word is given by the LMŠ Group of Members, colleague Jože Lenart.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues! One of the first obligations of Members of this National Assembly reference from the First Committee and the First Committee on Health was the issue of working on a children's heart surgery programme or for this established national institute for children's heart patients called NISB. It was not easy for us to discuss and decide on such a specific and sensitive area of expertise as it was the health of the youngest, our society and their parents. It is right that after all these years of complications of which all stakeholders in the profession, the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber and also the policy of appointing an investigative commission to ensure the responsibility of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme, to which the first part of the report also relates. So let's go in a row and start at the very beginning so that we can better understand the whole thing. In the cardiac and vascular surgery clinical department, surgical treatment is performed for a wide range of diseases, heart and blood vessels, both in adult patients and in children. In this clinical section of all surgical interventions in the heart of adults also perform surgical interventions for the youngest. Children’s heart surgery was established in the 1960s and was the main paediatric referral centre for all the republics of the former country. On average, about 250 children with heart failure received medical and surgical care, and a team of heart surgeons and pediatricians expanded. Individuals were further educated in paediatric centres across Europe and also in the United States. We detect homogeneous growth and development of baby heart surgery during this period. Following the independence of Slovenia, the situation for the further development of child heart surgery has changed significantly, mainly in view of the reduction in the number of children's patients, since UKC Ljubljana has failed to retain the referrals of patients from the former republics of Yugoslavia who have gradually gone elsewhere. During the period considered, the number of children was around 100 per year and the need for more demanding operations was slightly lower. It is clear from the statements being heard that, both before the implementation of the 2007 programme and during the implementation itself, there was no clear operational programme for the health teams to carry out their work safely and rationally and to upgrade the programme. Over the whole period, the organisation has changed and adapted to the situation, indicating that the project was not clearly set up and did not take into account the basic required professional criteria and the conditions for a children's heart surgery independent programme, including the more difficult interventions for the youngest patients. Furthermore, it can be found that there is a lack of clear responsibility and leadership to ensure the implementation of a heart surgery programme comparable to successful such programmes abroad. The programme included individual professional healthcare professionals, here I think mainly young people who have started to step into the program but who have come out unfortunately disappointed. It is assumed that the unsecured human resources, knowledge or more needed experience of clear management and accountability in the implementation of the programme are responsible. In particular, over the last period with the establishment of NIJSB, the management of departments and individuals have opposed and even prevented the further development of the programme. The reasons we have heard are different. Individual health professionals have gradually left and are now successful abroad and on other programs at home. On the basis of the hearings, it can be concluded that Slovenian health care, but also probably policy, has taken a step-by-step approach to the establishment of a children's heart surgery programme, in particular from the point of view of the organisation and the provision of adequately qualified staff in accordance with the necessary professional guidelines, standards and standards that are all the more important for such a difficult and sensitive area. The fact is that Slovenia does not provide a critical mass of small patients for two million people, so that child heart surgery can be independent, such as practice in other centres of this kind in Europe. Because of the above facts, it would be difficult to provide a programme that would be particularly safe for patients and, last but not least, financially sustainable. Slovenian health care covers the lack of health care staff, as well as adequate infrastructure. Homes for the elderly are already a good example, and there is also a lack of financial resources or resources for health services. Even so, a well - intentioned desire for a child’s heart surgery program for Slovenia is questionable. All of these findings make sense for children to be organised in Slovenia by heart surgery, which would only be part of the program. However, operations or more difficult interventions should be linked to qualified clinics abroad, which have more patients and therefore have more experience. We certainly understand the desire of those who feel that young heart patients deserve a quality defense at home. However, one is desire, the other is real possibilities and the related achievement of professional competence for as much as possible the safe treatment of children in such a difficult area of heart disease, which, of course, we are obliged to provide in the first place. In the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca, we believe that the further development of child heart surgery must be left only and only by professionals who must take into account the basic criteria and conditions of such a programme as they know, of course, abroad. Most importantly, children with congenital heart failures should be provided with safe and quality treatment either on domestic or foreign soils, which is in the hands of profession and not politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The text is delivered by the Group of Social Democrats, a colleague of Jani Prednik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u18	Colleagues, colleagues! Hello! The Commission of Inquiry on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the Child Cardiology Programme and in the field of procurement and management of medical equipment and medical material was decided at the 3rd meeting of the National Assembly. For the purpose of this inquiry committee, we have set out its purpose in points 40. The scope of the Commission’s intention is already broad and complex. The program of child cardiology and the problems associated with it has a long history. But the events around this program are, we can say, all the more so than normal or stable. The interim report, written on the basis of materials, testimonies and hearings, is, in our view, a summary of findings and conclusions, which do not represent a clear picture of who, when and in what way is directly or indirectly responsible for the catastrophic situation and developments in this programme. As stated in the report, doctors and professional staff cannot be blamed, nor can we say that individuals are guilty of the situation in different periods, both at the Ministry of Health, at the highest positions of the UKC Ljubljana or the Government. After all, we can ask ourselves who we are Members of Parliament and Members to judge whether doctors and professional staff have acted professionally and competently. The fact is that the problems not the children's cardiology programme started in 2007 and have not been resolved until now. This story has been going on for 13 years, and at that time there have been countless ideas on how to solve the situation, but no regret has worked so far. In this place, we can rightly ask who is to blame for not having any solution or any idea of how to cut this Gordy knot in such a long period of time. From the course of the investigative commission and the interim report, we can say that the blame is on both the professional side and the leading positions in UKC Ljubljana, the Ministry of Health and others. In the Socialist Group of Members, we agree with the statement in the report that there has been no clear responsibility, neither professional nor management, which would ensure the implementation of the children's heart surgery programme. We also believe that the whole blame for the situation cannot be passed on to just a few individuals who have been involved in the story for the past few years, as recorded in this report. Members and Members of the SD have no difficulty in having an interim report with all the materials, testimonies and hearings presented to the authorities that will be able to clarify the picture of the event and the responsibilities. The report and the material may also have a different side of the story, so it is still important that all the material be handed over to the authorities that are to make the situation finally and definitively end.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, co-worker Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted. The Commission of Inquiry was set up in December 2018 and the interim report under consideration today focuses on the work of the Commission of Inquiry in the field of the children's cardiology programme. The commission of inquiry itself was more than a matter of time. In the chaotic state of the children’s cardiology programme, the media has been reporting for several years, and a worrying situation has often played an important role in the political floor. In the SMC Group, we will vote against the final joint conclusions, and we will not support the proposed conclusions. As a member of the Commission of Inquiry, I also presented a separate opinion on non-conclusion with the final joint conclusions, in which the non-conclusion is further clarified. If we can agree that former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and her State Secretary, Dr Ana Medved, are objectively politically responsible for the situation, we cannot say that they are criminally and subjectively responsible for their work, as was the result of the draft interim report. This political responsibility is linked to the evaluation of their work as a vehicle for public functions. As in a separate opinion, I would like to point out now that the Commission of Inquiry cannot take political and legal decisions without investigating and establishing the actual situation. On the basis of the hearings, we can conclude that the blame for the failure to solve the problem of the implementation of the children's cardiology programme can be attributed: to doctors in the programme, to heads and heads of departments and clinics, to UKC management, to UKC professional council, to the Council of the Institute of Health of Slovenia, to the Health Council, and only at the end of the Ministry of Health. This was also acknowledged in her separate opinion by the current President of the Board of Inquiry, Jelka Godec. At the time of the ministry of Mileyka Kolar Celarc, the Ministry of Health should obviously be the most responsible, and that is what everyone else should be responsible for. Instead of admitting that she had tried to solve the problem of child cardiology as a responsible public function bearer, some even admit it. Unfortunately, it also failed to resolve more than 10 years of long-standing agony, and the then Minister is objectively politically responsible. But we ask ourselves, where are all the others who are actually responsible for the fact that the unsustainable situation has been maintained since 2007? Where are all the governments and all the ministers to Miley Kolar Celarc? Where are all the CEOs and professional directors of UKC Ljubljana until 2016? Where are all the heads of clinics and departments, and where are all the doctors? These are the real culprits for Slovenia's fear of waiting for what will happen to small patients who urgently needed a cardiac cardiac surgeon. The former Minister's efforts and the government's decision to establish NISB were good. This was also confirmed by some witnesses, former President of the Medical Chamber, former professional director of UKC Ljubljana, former Minister Fakin, child cardiovascular surgeon, and this is much to say. The decision of the then government was legal under the given conditions, which is also confirmed by the fact that the UKC Council of Experts in September of last year gave its consent to the establishment of a heart clinic. In December 2019, the establishment of such a clinic was also unanimously supported by the Council of UKC Ljubljana itself. Therefore, it is apparent that the establishment of the NIOC Pier move was baseless and offensive to those who had a sincere intention to help. In the SMC, quality and safe care is available for all Slovenian patients, especially children, we want the UKC through the heart clinic to be able to solve problems in the field of child cardiology if they already lacked the will and interest to cooperate and support NISB. We have welcomed the establishment of an investigative commission in the SMC from the very beginning, and we have been actively involved in its work. Our desire was to get through the work of the commission to an epilogue of stories that well marked our health system and are sensitive and shocking. The fact is that poor practices have taken place in the implementation of the children's cardiology programme. We are not in the SMC and have no intention, and even less reason to obstruct their disclosure. Our objective in participating in the Investigative Commission was simple, to determine the actual situation and who is responsible for such a situation. The communication delivered by the extraordinary work of the Commission of Inquiry is clear. To resolve the problem, a child with congenital heart failure must also be treated with all seriousness. At the same time, the competent authorities must not pass past events that have led the children's cardiology programme to a point that Slovenia will never be proud of. We expect, however, that the findings of the competent authorities will in no way be used for the media link and the subsequent political structure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the interim report on the essential findings and on the proposal for a decision submitted by the Investigative Commission. I inform you that the amendments to the draft decision have not been tabled. The first one's on the table, the first one with the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I must thank my fellow Members for the more or less correct introductory positions. Above all, I would like to respond first to the position of the Left Group and my colleague Koražija, who, unfortunately, misused this point in the first place precisely for what was not intended, and this is for political accounting on the essential findings, as regards the Commission's conclusion in this interim report, and you have said little. I understand that you have not been a member of the Commission of Inquiry so far, but that does not at all justify the fact that you have not actually read the interim report, because I believe that if then certain things here would not have been mentioned in the introduction of the unreal ones as you did. However, I am also surprised by one fact, because you know, your predecessor, who, I must say, through the entire work of the Commission of Inquiry, has really actively and constructively participated in the work of the Commission, has also supported the conclusions and conclusions of the Commission at the end. And not only did he support, including the then president, Mrs Jelki Godec, but he thanked him. And if I could just read the portion of the magnetogram: “Dr. Franz Duck: Thank you very much for your word. I would like briefly to thank the expert support, my colleague Jelka, I think that the report is correct, that the conclusions are also correct and I will vote in favour. Thank you." However, I must say that all the members of the Commission voted in favour of the conclusions, with the exception of the SMC representative. Let me also respond to the specific observations you made in your introductory position and which I believe that if you read the interim report carefully, you probably would not have explained this in the first place. First of all, you were disturbed by the anniversary of the launch of the 2007 investigation. At the time of its establishment at the December 2018 meeting, it was explained why that period was adopted, i.e. the investigation period, from 2007 to 2018. In the interim report, however, you also have a precise record, the year 2007 was the crucial year when things really escalated in UKC Ljubljana, first in the field of surgery, and later this period 2013-2014 followed the whole field of cardiology. That is why I would immediately point out to my fellow Members here that we are talking today about a programme of cardiology and not just surgery; this is also the title of the interim report. So, at the end of 2017, there was an exact problem, that is, at that moment we are in Slovenia, that is, in UKC Ljubljana, the only one who performed this activity, left without the only heart surgeon. And that is what some in decision-making positions knew a few months earlier, and things have not been settled since then and until now in 2017. He was also mentioned as the minister of Gantar, who was supposed to be the minister of the then government of Janez Janša. See, Minister Gantar was the only minister to respond to the matter, because at that time the Ministry of Health, together with the Slovenian Medical Chamber, ordered an international investigation on the basis of which came this vehement international report, which really revealed the catastrophic situation in the field of children's heart surgery from 2007 to 2014. And on this basis, it was actually revealed to the public, and in 2015, it also showed a lot of what was really going on. You have also been a bit dismayed by the fact that the investigative commission has presented only the suspicions of criminal service for the then general director of mags. Simon the High. See, under point 33c of the Essential Observations, the Commission of Inquiry has detailed why the suspicions of criminal services are proposed directly with Director General Simon Vrhunc. Indeed, it was already known here from 2013 and before that in 2012 from the internal report and the report of the anti-corruption commission that the conclusion of the copyright agreements was announced even as a corrupt act. And despite the fact that it was known from internal control and from the anti-corruption commission that such a legal basis was not admissible, that it should not allow Dr. Mishaly's operations, given that he did not have an appropriate licence, he deliberately allowed it. This is about this awareness, as we say lawyers, which is the subjective element of the crime, which is reflected in this. But now I wouldn't be talking about criminal responsibility. It is only a matter of suspicion of the announcements, but if a crime has actually been committed, it must be decided by the competent authorities such as the National Investigation Office and the State Prosecutor's Office, which, if decided by you today, will then also be decided in the following proceedings. I would also like to explain to my colleague from the SD Group Jani Prednik, namely, that I did not really participate in the investigation at the time. At the time, this was led by former colleague Jelka Godec, but I have read all the reports from the international to the internal, anti-corruption reports really well more than once, and there was no way that the Commission claimed that the doctors had not acted professionally. Even the opposite. It is stated that the doctors, the profession, have repeatedly warned the superiors, the competent, the Medical Chamber, but in all these years they have not achieved anything unfortunately. At the end of 2013, somehow, if I may use this term, they forced their objection to the fact that matters then somehow moved forward at the Ministry and then with this international report at least a little bit. Thus, the Commission acted within its investigation activities exclusively and only within the limits of the competences it has and also the findings that were made at the end of the investigation only within the scope of the powers vested in it by the Commission of Inquiry. Three key findings were made, namely the announcement by legislative changes to the executive and legislative branches of the authorities, which I believe is the responsibility of the Commission of Inquiry. An objective political responsibility has been given, and the Commission is also responsible. Finally, the announcement of suspicions of criminal services, which is perfectly logical if these suspicions are found to be announced later in the course of the investigation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Let me read the order of the debaters, given that they have changed slightly because of the cancellations. The first one will have the word mag. Branislav Rajić, then Mag. Bojana Muršič, then Mojca Žnidarič, then Alenka Jeraj, Jani Möderndorfer, Janja Servant. So the first one has the word "magic." Branislav Rajić.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u24	Mr. President! Good afternoon, everyone. This local report is biased in key elements because it lists only those hearings and documents which attribute guilt and responsibility for the situation to others in the case and only to the Ministry of Health. This commission of inquiry unreservedly accuses and discredits former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and Dr. Yes Medved as former Secretary of State at this Ministry. It forgets to show objective reasons for the situation and thus misleads and manipulates the findings to a certain extent. I conclude from this that the main purpose is to place all political responsibility on those who have actually tried to settle this situation in such a way that, because they firmly believed it and in the belief that a lasting solution is possible, which in this case could become a pearl of Slovenian and European medicine, not its tumor as is now being demonstrated. And there is no indication that any of this would change in the next two years when this leadership and Minister Kolar Celarcheva are no longer there. So the Commission of Inquiry selects certain testimonies as well as written documents. For example, this report does not state that some of the Witnesses have proved themselves to be opposite and, of course, only unilateral views are presented; these others, who are equally valid, simply deny themselves, which of course is not right. However, the fact is that on this programme, there is a long-standing inadequate structure of employees that has been drawn up since 2007, a long-standing inadequate and dangerously managed process of organising the programme itself, they also say that a weak educational system, a catastrophic relationship on the programme, which is of course a worrisome concern and I will devote a little more time later and inadequately managed documentation, which is extremely important in these processes. Therefore, this unacceptable way of making conclusions without stating concrete actions and events is unacceptable and, therefore, I am also discussing in the direction of not supporting the vote in any way, because it seems to me that from the very beginning the work of this commission of inquiry has been more than a search for the truth actually directed at individuals, particularly against the former Minister of Health. This programme, as all the facts show, has collapsed over the last 12 years, and has completely collapsed when all the structures in the pediatric surgery programme, due to a catastrophic situation that has not improved, have simply retreated. It is strange, however, that for the last decade Slovenia has been without a regular surgeon and that the last two Slovenian surgeons have resigned in autumn 207, of course, with the indication of written reasons such as lack of confidence in professionalism and collegiate correctness among the individual professions, which is in itself terrible to hear because I want to remind you, we do not read here the lack of confidence in expertise and collegiate correctness among members of any other profession, but among people who should act as an absolutely integrated team and save the most pitiful lives, those who have not been given the same opportunities as others. And these pediatric cardiologists resigned in 2018, April, in 10 days, so that our country was completely without doctors who could take care of such severely ill children who could probably be helped, of course, if there is one who is able to do so. It was also included in these procedures at Motol Hospital in the Czech Republic, which assessed at one point, its experts estimated that this situation is terrible for us and wrote in the letter UKC Ljubljana that there is no programme coordinator that it is a complete breakdown of the Slovenian cardiosurgery team. The cardiosurgery team does not attend the consulates and does not visit the intensive department and it is not clear who is involved in the children's heart surgery programme for children with congenital heart failures. Now, if you get that opinion from the people who came to help, then we have a perfectly clear picture of the sediment of this time, that 13 years to which it has led. And of course, there is also the opinion that if the management of UKC Ljubljana respected the decisions taken by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia as its founder and that it would not give up its cooperation with this Ministry or be deaf to dialogue with the Ministry, today we would have this national institution for childhood heart disease in place of losing it. The report in points 8 and 13 analyses the shortcomings of the operation of the whole system and in this analysis completely ignores and does not, of course, even mention the role of certain department heads, which are the first key factors to care for the smooth functioning of the whole system. And of course we can now say because we know what leadership and organization means, that these people have made a decisive contribution to the collapse of the entire system. Therefore, it is probably also necessary to talk about their responsibilities, in particular the responsibilities of the professional directors of the paediatric clinic, the surgical clinic and the professional directors of the UKC. So we don't have to worry that she's just a patient and a minister right now, and there's no one in between. That's a long way from the truth. The former ministers also appear to have wanted to influence the members of the UKC Ljubljana Council. And this is groundless because it is only a matter of communication with representatives of the board of the institution, and this is essential in order to effectively defend the interests of the founder in the institution and, of course, the minister, every minister must be concerned about what is going on. In the context of individual hearings, the members of the Commission of Inquiry have repeatedly pointed out that Minister Kolar Celarchev has destabilised UKC Ljubljana. And now look at the manipulation here. For example, when it comes to this period of the Minister's Ministry, three were appointed as Acting Director-General by the Council of the Office. So the Minister couldn't have had anything to do with it because it's being done in the institution's world and just one appointment of the director general of mags. A digger with the consent of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. And only here was the secretary involved, not everything else. And then you see how controversial this is for the Minister. Here's another illustration, and well, small, but still, how you get something going, which is practically true, really not true. And it is equally preposterous that the former Secretary of State, Dr. Ana Medved, had an impact on staffing in the UKC. For example, in June 2018 she received an invitation from UKC to advise on how to start new jobs now because she has a view of the available doctors. At the same time, it was clear to her that she wanted to influence employment and that is, I think, unacceptable and of course she needs to talk about it. Now I just want to point out something else – that in this interim report several doctors from this department were shown very positively and, of course, according to my assessment and assessment, some colleagues were unfairly and impartially, because they had waited for practically seven years to report that there were unnecessary complications and deaths in this department, that the programme had an incompetent leader, that in education of pediatric cardiosurgery specialists there was discrimination that the programme was not safe, that the quality of the programme was highly questionable. Well, that's terrible, I mean, but you've been waiting seven years to tell me? And that's what I think is that they don't wait seven years in an auto-mechanical workshop to draw attention to irregularities, much less to the kind of fucking area that we're considering. What's bothering me here as a man, even as a parent, is that there were terrible conditions in this department when it came to relationships. It is inconceivable to me that the most educated, the most esteemed people, the bloodthirsty ones, have allowed themselves to go to a certain hall of health, not to talk to each other, and that only when they have finished their chess, they go and do not report forward, and the hearts are extinguished. And that's, I mean, imagine that even if two shopkeepers didn't talk, I don't know if the head of this bakery would tolerate that kind of relationship, but it's just a bakery. Now you know what the boss has to do and when he has to hit, now, the bakery counter or the operating table, anyway. Or at the table. And here's the question of what a minister can do if two doctors don't talk and communicate professionally. It is also a monstrous thing for me to do, which expresses the incomprehensible responsibility of people who have been educated for years, for example, for 10 years and also for pay because they are paid and paid at the time of specialisation and sufficiency and, of course, are educated, and this is a commendable effort and then only one decides not to do it anymore. This is also one questionable fact or one point at which we should think about where the issue of the face and everything else is here, as well as the debt to this society. And now we are spilling manure after the only one who has actually gathered the courage to hold this bull to the horns, which, as the minister, had adopted the parents, gave hope to the parents, over and over again trying to find some systematic way to provide systemic care for these severely ill children. But when she saw, of course, that there was no solution to this in Slovenia, she made contact with Dr. Gregorič, and now this engagement of Dr. Gregorčič as a cardiosurgeon is now being imitated as a pianist. Does anyone between us really think that an internationally recognized cardio surgeon needs a pierre and, in particular, such a pierre as he is now presenting himself? This was not a SMC pear move and the fact is, even if it had happened, it was that Dr. Gregoric himself would certainly not have agreed to it. And we need to imagine who will take the responsibility of working in advance as a child's heart surgeon, who will continue to accept the role of Minister of Health if only a shameful pillar and poison arrows are to be offered to each one. In fact, our health ministers are changing at the most frequent frequency of resignations or replacements, and former Minister Kolar Celarc is the only one who has lasted the entire mandate for almost four years, and after her departure we have had three ministers: Mr Fakin, Mr Šabedr and now Mr Gantar, and we can also ask ourselves what each of them has done in this area, where these hearts are still beating with mistakes and what is better now. At the end of this report it is clear that it was necessary to blow the head of Miley Kolar Celarc and even after her exit from the government now that this happened, two years after that, she left. For this debate, as you will see, it has suddenly sparked interest, people are moving away from the debate and it will practically not be as long as it has shown at first. But the key question for us should remain, however, because these hearts are still among us and will still be among us and we would like to make it as easy for them as possible in life, so as a society we must make every effort to offer one hope and organization of this system treated so that these children and their parents are properly cared for. That is why I cannot support these conclusions because I believe that they have been completely blown away from their purpose, because they do not in any way help to find the culprit or the culprits first and do not help children and parents who suffer this fear of death, which, of course, no man can afford. And that the hospital department is equipped by all standards, yet empty because at two medical schools in the country at 6,400 doctors, we have a handful of specialists and some specialists who dare not even talk to each other. And this is a situation we need to overcome. So this report is not to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The representative of the Government of Jernej Farkaš Lainščak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Health, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I could only make a few claims, which are also related to the current situation, regarding Slovenian cardiovascular surgeons for children, regarding cooperation with Motol Hospital and the current state of play of the programme. I would like to say that we currently have two surgeons in Slovenia who are involved in cardiac surgery of children, that all operations of children are carried out in Ljubljana as part of the so-called Centre for Inborn Cardiac Mistakes of Children and Adults. Of course, only with our staff can we not yet imagine the implementation of this programme, so the University Clinical Centre continues to work very well with the Motol Centre in Prague in the Czech Republic and also with the Munich Centre. This cooperation is needed with large, large centres with a sufficient number of cases, a sufficient number of experts who come to Slovenia once a month after a systematic, agreed common board between Slovenian and foreign experts, which were not available at the time of the National Institute, NIOC. At the time, at least after the report, which I will refer to myself, the system report, namely the report on the systematic supervision of the National Institute for Children's Heart Disease by the Ministry of Health, was not planned, ad hoc. Of course, only four doctors were employed for 10% of working hours and no other staff, including health care, was defined in any of the NISB documents received by our Commission. Equally high professional teamwork, as well as when dealing with congenital heart failure in children and later in monitoring this in adults, is crucial to the success of such a programme. And this idea of the integration of experts and the concentration of knowledge is somehow also being managed by the Ministry of Health, at the same time that we cannot go beyond the independence of visiting foreign experts for a short time. So far, we still have an insufficient number of qualified cardiovascular surgeons, but the situation is better with specialist paediatrics focused on cardiac cardiology; so far we have five and a specialist who will complete her specialty in September. Thus, we believe that in fact the current course of the programme, where experts are trying, connecting, is somehow new to the development of this profession, is stable. At the same time, we are also thinking about optimising this programme, optimising in the way of rationalising equipment, spaces, optimising processes and collecting some additional information, information, including financial structure, in connection with the so-called idea of a heart clinic, which, in fact, decisions, precisely because of these negative practices and experiences with the establishment of NISB, have not yet been definitively adopted. Moreover, the Ministry appoints members to the Council of the Institute, including to the Council of the UKC, perhaps just this comment on the possibility of impact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some of my fellow Rajić's statements or presentations. First, I would explain to all those who accompany us today – I know that we Members know what the composition of the commission of inquiry is, but there will be no misunderstanding. In fact, the Commission of Inquiry may participate or represent all political parties in Parliament if they so wish. Representatives of all political parties first participated in this commission of inquiry. All the members of the investigative committee were also invited to comment on this interim report, which we are considering today. Once again, I would like to repeat the outcome of the interim report, the findings of the essential points in the 33 points and the decision to refer the cases to the NPU and the Specialised State Prosecutor's Office were voted on by all members other than the SMC member. So that today I really do not understand some of the introductory positions that my fellow Members have made here today, and I will also say no further discussions. However, I must also say that you cannot claim that the investigative report has been prepared unilaterally, that all magnetograms are covered, but it is true that you probably have not read many of them, and please also read that in closed work, which would be good to read, because then you would understand in what way and why, with what facts, the objective political responsibility of the Minister and the Secretary-General and then the suspected criminal services were established. Comrade Rajić, you say that the profession or doctors did not warn. They warned all of this since 2007, when we lost one and only child heart surgeon in Slovenia. Since then, the profession has warned, doctors have warned, but unfortunately something has not happened much. Neither did the law enforcement authorities respond to the 2013 reports, and before that to 2012, because if we did, then we investigative commissions in this area or in this case would not need to explain or investigate certain objective responsibilities and changes to the legislation where I mentioned them in the introduction. Last but not least, if doctors were as guilty as some colleagues here today, you would like to point out, but I wonder how they can now work normally abroad and in other hospitals. And now things are going pretty professionally normal there. Here in this area in UKC Ljubljana they were unable to carry out what they wanted. And once again, look, today we're looking at a report by the investigative commission. Yes, the commission of inquiry is composed of us as representatives of the political function, but only the work of the investigation should not be based on the fact that we are now discussing here that our minister and our Government are speaking to the right and to the right. No, no, no. The Investigative Commission is investigating the actual state of affairs in this period, which is actually the subject of an investigation, regardless of who the Minister was, which the Government was, and I ask that we focus on this and on these findings, but not that some are now trying to turn these slightly politically defined things into a different direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Muršič, prepare Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! I must say that there is a need for sound debate on this subject. Otherwise, we have been reported to the debate today, but I see that in the end, all the other bodies responsible for this report must play out and not cause me fear, unrest, and much uncertainty. The Secretary of State, I have to say that I was a little reassured by this, because she said how this is happening today in the UKC, because, in fact, if the parents of such a child were the parents, it would be an extremely thoughtful exception to where to put my child into treatment if matters such as these were dealt with in this report. For our only goal here is that for children, parents, employees, the treatment of heart disease and congenital heart failures of our children is normal for children to receive quality and especially safe treatment. This is our key objective and this must be the case. True, we have been dealing with these problems of child heart cardiology for 13 years. Although, personally, almost two mandates. The Commission of Inquiry, which was set up in this area, has shown that the issue is extremely broad and complex. It also turned out that in Slovenia we do not have enough critical mass of children, what I have to say, on the one hand, that we are doing well, because doctors, but if we did have them, we would have to organize this much better. As long as we do not have this high enough critical mass of children, what happens to us is that doctors have too little routine, because there should be operations under all these European standards between 200 and 500 per year. We have only between 100 and 120 such children who need such interventions. Therefore, this is extremely important, as only the optimal extent of these interventions ensures rationality and in particular the safety of the implementation of a separate treatment programme for children with congenital heart failure. In both closed and open hearings, we have observed indeed problems within the doctors themselves, who have warned each other about the wrong behavior of their colleagues, and they have also warned of systemic shortcomings, failure to implement certain common conclusions. However, it is even more worrying that there was no evaluation of the programme, as has been found by the International Commission, which reviewed and carried out controls and that there were no systematic controls with the competent authority in the programme. And what is most painful is that the program was inadequate, dangerous and should not be implemented in this way. I have to say that I believed in the government in the previous term, and I also believed the leaders of the UKC that they had a well-functioning programme. While this analysis or international control showed that this was not the case and the results were disturbing. However, this information, also mentioned by the international institution, is a source of concern in order to prevent a number of deaths if we had better health care and the organisation of the programme. Indeed, I have been asked the question of responsibility where it became complicated that the UKC did not have data on mortality and complications in the children's programme, and even more so that it did not inform the Ministry of Health. In all years, a system of security deviations and risks to safety and health has not been established, so a number of questions are raised here. If we had this done, we'd have the right knowledge. By exchanging experience, it would be effective to check the operation and, to the greatest extent possible, to prevent the recurrence of safety deviations, as well as to warn doctors at the hearings. In the whole story, I must say that I was most struck by the fact that the essential problem was in the relationship of top experts who sometimes forgot to be human in relationships, which is the minimum of any cooperation, not just cooperation in the field of health and health care specialization. That's painful. But after all, we have a report. The Commission of Inquiry carried out a lot of work, a lot of hearings, 68 hearings were both open and closed. There were also a lot of separate opinions to be heard or corrected by the minutes themselves, for some things were explained differently and were written wrongly. There have been corrections, the commission of inquiry has accepted them and has also included them in the report, which is certainly good, but I must say that in this place it is necessary for the competent institutions to play their work, because otherwise I ask myself who I am to judge on such an important, extremely professional area that has emerged between doctors, doctors, healthcare professionals and also, I will say a policy at the top. Once again, I personally support this work of the investigative commission, I sincerely thank all those who participated in this commission, such as the former presidents, the new presidents, members and also the alternate members who participated in this, because much work has been done. Now it is up to the competent institutions to play their part and find the culprits for this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič, prepare Alenka Jeraj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everyone. Now, since I only have two minutes left right now and then I'm going to say something more in time, and I'm going to say this right now. I therefore delivered a separate opinion on behalf of the SMC because, in some key elements, the interim report is biased and does not show the objective reasons for the situation created in this programme. However, I must point out that we can agree and agree with most of the common conclusions, and not all of them. And on some of these, I'll also explain why not in the second part. For the time being, I would only say this: if Dr. Gregorič knew that the epilogue of NIJSB would be such, and if he did not believe in NIJSB, he would not be involved in this story and so would engage him with all his international reputation and thus put him on the line. Once again, if it were not for sincere purposes, Dr. Gregorič would certainly not be involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Alice Jeraj. I can see she's not here. We're moving to Jani Möderndorfer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Vice President. We have an interim report ahead of us, and let me start by saying that I really regret that the Presidents who led this investigative committee are not, in fact, today, because perhaps my discussion and discussion would be slightly different. Actually, I can't even talk to my colleague Furman in any way because she didn't participate in this investigation committee at all, and I don't believe she read it – so I don't think we're going to get the wrong idea – the complete material of the investigative commission. This is only 1% of the papers available to the Commission of Inquiry, 1%. I think that even less than 1% and therefore physically this is simply impossible, especially if you are not present for so long and, more importantly, if you do not have dynamics and, of course, the interest and presence of non-participation witnesses. And I believe that, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, she has devoted all her energy to the part that lies ahead of her and is very serious and far more extensive than that in terms of the material she has ahead of her. And that's why I wish her great happiness and success at work. But the fact is, I don't expect the President who didn't take part in this part of the investigation to tell us the explanation that we've been working on, to warn us in advance what we've read and what we haven't read, and so on, because, for the first time, it's unfair and unfair, because you can't look into our brain, what we've done and what we haven't done. Therefore, I warn you at least enough to allow yourself to abstain at least that long and be correct if you wish to properly drive this committee. What I would like to point out, however, is, of course, at the outset, that I am a little surprised that today I have listened to the exhilarating secretary and her opinion on behalf of the government, given that I have not seen this opinion in the GP, this document is nowhere and I do not know whether it is her own opinion. I don't know, today you're going to tell me when this opinion you've read today was adopted by the government to let me know whose opinion it really is. In fact, the attitude toward the National Assembly is so unfair that you hope to come to a pay phone and talk about something we don't know what it is is, it's a little unworthy. But that's what the relationship is about, if there's no other document, we don't get what it really means. I've read your tape right now. There is no opinion at all, you have not defined yourself to anything, nor to support, you do not support, you just point out something, you think something, and there will be a debate and so on. So let's think a little bit about it before you use the speaker panel, you know, it's written down here for history and what you've warned us today is called abuse of position. Now to what we have before us. There is also a separate opinion among the report, which is very limited today. A separate opinion was delivered by a member of the Commission of Inquiry, Mojca Žnidarič, and a separate opinion was also delivered by former Member Jelka Godec, who led this Commission of Inquiry. We have heard today from the President of the Investigative Commission that she has repeatedly stressed how everyone has accepted everything unanimously. But one who has read very carefully will read a separate opinion from Mrs Jelka Godec, who said in the third paragraph under the heading on the other: The Commission of Inquiry has, with three votes for, adopted by the former Minister of Health Milojka Kolar Celarc and Dr. Ani Medved as the former Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, an objective political responsibility as the responsible institution of public functions. I have not personally voted on this proposal, but I have supported the joint substantive conclusions to the full. End of quote. So much for how quickly, if we let something go, we don't say, we don't lie, but we just let it go and we don't tell what's really going on in these documents if we don't read them. We need to be very careful. So much for the record, colleague Furman, it won't turn out to be very fair here. The matter of the commission is not, she said repeatedly, at least twice, she said, the matter of the commission is not our government, your government, our government, that minister, this minister, sorry, what does the Commission of Inquiry do? He seeks the political responsibility of the opponent - whoever led this Commission of Inquiry knows. And you yourself called at the pay phone with the next sentence when you said in the introduction, when you took us to the debate itself, you said that you wanted and you hoped that the debate would be mainly professional. I'm sorry, there can't be hearts in the National Council of Experts in the field of cardiovascular surgery because there are no competent people for this discussion. However, it can be a political debate and a political decision will come to an end, not an expert decision and therefore do not mislead the public of Slovenia, what we will talk about today. Only a political debate can take place and this political debate has its consequences, of course, because there has also been a political investigation on the Commission of Inquiry for Political Responsibility. I'm not going to say any expert inquiry is in that sense. But the fact is, if you want to look for political responsibility, you have to look at the whole picture, and that's the fact. And we can draw one line from this file and from this investigation today. Milojka Kolar Celarc cannot be responsible and guilty of political "shit" for the last 20 years. It can't be. Especially not according to the testimony we received on the Investigation Commission itself. And these witnesses were talking about what? About resentment, about resentment, about not talking, about non-participation, about lies, about pretending, and so on, personal resentment. Let me just say one case that was public and that was actually on the Commission of Inquiry, so I can speak in the open. Professional director Fajfar v. Dr. Kendi, who has so much to say in this report, what really happened doesn't say that they used to be personal friends, they went on family trips, but then something happened. Although I personally have no interest in whether they were personal friends or not, I can be sure that later I can be sure of something else that is personal offenses and not more professional decisions and approaches that this top-notch intelligence at the Clinical Center in the field of heart surgery. And that's what's terrible, what we listened to on the investigative committee. You're talking about this, I listened to your colleague when she spoke in one part at the beginning of her presentation, and she said: "The NISB was set up because it was the fault of the house because the house was unable to organize the professional work. No, he said it was human factors. But no one says that in this commission of inquiry we have identified, specifically, the case for Kookit or those who do not know the intensive department, because children after operations, of course, care for them and their life functions. For 40 years, he hasn't reorganized and acted on the same principle. The surgeons are employed and under the direction of the surgical services, not the Pediatric Clinic. How can a center that has its own boss work? He can't. But you know, it was good for someone that it never changed so they could fish in the mud. They've been alerted to irregularities. Of course they are, but only when it came to their benefit. Today you're talking about why there are no more problems at the Clinical Center in this area. My dears, there are still the same problems. Just until he comes out again with who's paid for how much. Because that was the only and only reason these things hit the day. Because Slovenian doctors were unable to get over the pain and the truth that someone was significantly more paid than they were, of course, forgetting that they had done nothing to ensure that people could work together and continue to develop this centre. That was the problem. And these doctors aren't there anymore. That's why, of course, it fell apart. Some made a picnic when some finally left after 20 years, but they couldn't get rid of them because remember, I repeat a hundred times the same thing about a colleague nothing bad. That's the definition of sticking to a white dress and trying to sort it out first. When it doesn't go any further, they pull everyone else together, and the end is the policy because they don't have the conditions to work and because they don't have the situation. Please. Now it's the point. NISB, it is under discussion whether it has been justified or not. This is a question, as the colleague said in her presentation of her views, that colleague Brinovšek says the following question, which is a very smart question, only the question in which context she raised it: which decision is in fact the right one? Whether it is the right decision to remain as it is, or whether it is the right decision to organise a centre within the Clinical Centre that will specialize in cardiovascular diseases of children or to establish a definitive external institution such as NIOC. Personally at a given time, given the situation and the situation that was in place at the time of the establishment of NISB, I can assure you from what we have at our disposal of documents and of course also the testimony, if I were in the same place there, of course I would do it, but in a slightly different way. I'd organize it more quickly. Above all, I would prevent some from interfering with things, because I do not imagine that Janez Janša would establish in his government a legal entity of public law and that someone would say to him there, listen to this we will not develop, this is a foreigner in our body. You know what I'd do, what the Bureau of Statistics does, and everything else. We change them overnight like this. And that's the problem with the left middle, because it doesn't. Looks like you could do it like he does. And that, of course, is the problem. And NISB. Do you know what they thought at the Clinical Center? How do we stop this from happening as soon as possible, because our rights and ratings and everything we have so far will be deprived of? That's what the investigation showed. Even Minister Šabeder, who was the director of the clinical centre at the time, first cheered for NISB. What happened when you said that a professional decision had to fall — no, the elections happened! And when the elections took place, when it was clear that a new power would come, poof, there was no longer any interest in NISB. Nobody tells you what happened to the expert council at the clinical center. Once again, I will say out loud - a record has been written on the paper and signatures have been collected through the clinical centre, so that the document will be valid to say that they do not support NISB. A few weeks before that, they were still negotiating with the Ministry, in August, how they would hand over everything they needed, so that NISB could start working. And more importantly, NISB, the institution, some have imagined it this way, today it is established, tomorrow it takes over the task and the third day begins to work. That's impossible! “No go”, that's not how it works anywhere. Since you must first prepare the acts, you must first provide the premises, you must bring human resources, you must provide the means, and this gradual transition would last a year and a half. But what happened in the middle – the golden age that was in force at the time of the establishment of NISB, as some say, simply led to the moment that the clinical center no longer had a surgeon available to operate small hearts. And the clinical center asked this unfortunate NISB to, for God's sake, provide them with surgeons. And when they came to their aid, when they knew that they only helped them logistically, everything was wrong; they later said that it was a foreigner in the system. What does this have to do with the KPK report? Those who sat on this commission of inquiry could see very well how the matter was orchestrated, how information was actually coming from one side, and the initial report is also appropriate. You know, when the Commission is united, there's never a separate opinion, never. So to speak and boast about how wonderful and united this is, and we've all accepted it, look, I'm never going to take it personally. And today, I say, objective political responsibility – yes, every minister in any department is always objectively responsible for any action that took place during his term of office, good, bad or any other. But that he's responsible for the situation, as it says in here, and that he's guilty because he did something to improve the situation, well, that's a perverse situation, as it's called. Or that someone is politically trying to get to the point that he's trying to get someone dirty. Let me finish this. You will find it difficult to convince me that Dr. Gregorič, who led the international commission, to which most of you referred, which pointed to irregularities in the clinical centre, eventually led to the situation that he almost destroyed the entire area if he suggested solutions to how to solve matters. On the one hand, we refer to him and on the other hand, we accuse him indirectly of being incompetent and of knowing what else. That's what this report says. That way, I won't support it. The police and the NPU are only obliged to react by themselves from media, publicly available documents, statements and performances. If they want to, they can get all these documents without a problem, and much faster than the commission of inquiry, which must continue with the judicial branch of power to help obtain a document. That way, of course, I won't support it. However, I regret, as the Secretary of State said, 11. 9. A heart clinic was established at a meeting of the world of the clinical centre. Today we are in July 2020 – none of this will happen now, I tell you, none of this will happen – why? - because some people do.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The text shall be delivered by the representative of the Magi's proposers. Carmen Furman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. With all due respect, colleague Jani Möderndorfer, if you wanted to discredit me in any way, offend me or whatever, I will tell you that you failed. Actually, for the first time, I told you, President, you don't have to leave the hall, pal, because it would be okay if I listened to you in the debate that you should listen to me too. [[…]] However, I told the introductions in my debate that the inquiry committee has so far been led by former Member Jelka Godec and has done excellent professional work in this investigation, as well as by all the other members who have worked on this committee. However, I must also tell my fellow Member that when I take over a position myself, I will take full responsibility for it, and also, if I may say so, with expertise and professionalism, because, after all, I am a lawyer and I have a judicial exam and I probably also know how to read such material and then prepare it. However, if my colleague did not listen or listen to all of my discussions, you did not hear from me today that the Commission unanimously confirmed anything. You didn't hear the words "consonantly" from me. And let me enlighten my colleague as far as political responsibility is concerned. I am sorry that he is not in the hall, and he was not before we had our opening remarks and explanations, but unfortunately colleague Jani Möderndorfer is so pleased to have his 10th, 15th minute appearance for the public and then leave the hall and not listen before what we are talking about and not later. So much for his professionalism and respect for other colleagues here in the hall. As for the political objective responsibility that has been established by the Commission, this is the responsibility that you assume by performing the function that you perform within your competence and do not go beyond that limit, as it has done in this case, regardless of which political option you belong to. And in this direction, I have appealed here to all other fellow Members, so that we do not exclude ourselves from the left, right, political affiliation of a particular party, but that the Commission of Inquiry has indeed acted or carried out an investigation within its competence within the framework of its limits, which it has in accordance with the law and has discovered responsibility, regardless of who is the individual political option in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart, ready to be Moica the Boxer. Joseph Lenart, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Nice greetings to all present, guests from the Ministry, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We are considering an interim report on the identification of public function holders on the children's cardiology programme. But we Members know that we are here to provide our citizens with conditions for maintaining their health and life. The subject that we have before us is very sensitive and if we know anything about Slovenians, then we know how to deal with sensitive issues in an improper way. So since this subject even addresses a newborn child with a adjusted heart failure, we are actually even more in an area that we all know is delicate. There are feelings of parents, there are also, on the wallpaper are medical ethics and also their expertise. I believe that some things were necessary, the investigator was necessary, some of the findings from it, of course, give us, somehow require us to act more decisively or more prudently in such matters in the future. What can be said is that in this case there has been quite an irregularity. In fact, he's talking about an assembly, if I don't say, of irregularities or a host of incorrect policy decisions, professional teams, leaders, even professional doctoral errors. It is as if in some recent decade we have actually experienced a tsunami or domino effect in our treatment of congenital heart failure and the elimination of these errors by emergency surgery. So now how do we solve this? Without heart surgeons, it won't work, not without cardiologists, not without professional horseshoes, experienced anesthetists and surgical assistants, and so on. And we know they've been leaving us for quite some time. Now, because, in fact, here many stakeholders have also stated that there have been very poor relations between them, and I must say this is even more sensitive, unworthy. There is no communication among the top experts themselves. In view of this, it may not have been the best decision in those years 10 years ago when they decided to bring a top-notch expert from 2,000 kilometers away to Tel Aviv, which is actually when something urgent needs to be resolved, it is difficult for you to have him here. Then it is also noted that there was a major mistake, that in fact then this surgeon was not present all the time, that he could then continue after having already performed the operation, and then a new one was needed and so on. It is said that in fact the children of our citizens have waited too long for the operations and, then, even in some way, their condition has been complicated, the real problems with the hearts have been growing, and then the normal health of the child as it has completely deteriorated. In fact, the purpose of these investigators now was to determine the potential political responsibility of public function holders and the responsibility of public function holders, both political and health institutions. And some of this reading, of course, which we have processed, has so far made it clear that it will not be possible to do so in advance, but at a given time there have also been some attempts to try to resolve with a different organisation of the National Institute for Children's Diseases, Children's Heart Diseases and so on, and I will say that the decisions of each individual minister. Perhaps there was also some involvement and intertwining of this policy too in the university clinical center and then onward. So that I think that this kind of or a different debate today will also give some breadth to Members so that in the future we can better monitor this complex issue, this problem with the health of our newborns, if I say so. And of course we have a responsibility to ensure and have the right to health and survival. So in the future, we just have to do everything we can to have enough staff, and then, of course, we also have to make sure that ministers have good control of public and other aspects of the health system. So, somehow, if I join the Ministry lady, I am glad that things are immediately being done, that they are aware and have actually been well reviewed by these reports and that they have in advance such a ministry, Minister Gantar, things under better control than they were before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. As the last of the reported debaters, Mojca Škrnjar has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. From the presentation and from the material, I understand that the cause of the problems of cardiology, children's cardiology, is mainly a crisis of leadership at all levels, at the highest to lowest hierarchical management places. A good expert, a good industry expert is not necessarily a good leader and a good manager, and this is also reflected in this problem. The founder has a great role to play, and since it is a public institution, a large public institution, it is a country, of course, here I do not know how it has actually been in the past, but it seems to me how it should have been, if that were the case, perhaps there would have been no such problems. In fact, it is not only the loyalty of the one who is supposed to dictate or especially the disloyalty of a political line, but the expertise is what we should really require of the head of such a large and important institution as the UKC and then the individual parts of the organizational parts of this institution. Now, good staff, we have a pay system, which, of course, also pays doctors according to this pay system. Of course, we can't get extra foreigners for such wages. At the same time, we want public health, and for this public health care, we want to receive public wages from experts who are only available on the market. See, that's not working. This is not going well and the good staff we can get from abroad must be paid as a market requires. Good footage, and great personnel are being trained in our home. Unfortunately they are going elsewhere, so doctors need to be stimulated and these good doctors stimulated in other ways too, and the quality of life in Slovenia is something that doctors would, of course, want because it offers doctors the possibility to stay in Slovenia and live here or any other foreign people come. In order for a department like this to be designed, a special unit for young patients or for small patients with heart problems needs a lot of money. However, since the population of the Slovak Republic is relatively small, of course this is a very expensive intervention. The solution is possible, possible in such a way as to develop a service in Slovenia, which people from other parts of Europe would also like to benefit. I am sure that with sufficient support such a project would actually succeed, but it does not work here, the easiest thing to do is to make regulations, statutes, eventually also equip with the necessary equipment, expensive equipment, but the hardest thing is to get the staff that will stay here and will have to have enough work to maintain and develop their competences, because a doctor who cannot have the right practice due to the number of cases will certainly not want to do so, because he wants to develop his expertise. So maybe it's just enough to go to a dedicated doctor who starts a tradition. Such a department will be created only by cultivating tradition, encouraging young talent who will want to stay in Slovenia or to come to Slovenia and, of course, by establishing competent leaders, people who will care about this health care and who will master it, because, as I said, even though you have mastered your profession, it is not necessary for you to still master the management business. Of course, but you're a manager who understands the profession so well that he can manage it successfully. With the principles of honesty, expertise and awareness that we have potential, of course such a department could arise, I hope it will. However, I hope that such a process will reveal the awareness that we are also able to make good practice in this area. I think that young doctors in Slovenia would be happy with such opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which we will get the word of a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer. Would you like a word from the government? [[No, no, ……]] Representative of the proposer, Mag. Carmen Furman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that for the last time today. Finally, I must say that I am sure that this Commission of Inquiry has done an extraordinary and professional work until this interim report is prepared under the guidance of the previous President, Mrs Jelka Godec. I am sure that, regardless of the impressions of individual Members here today, it has been done exclusively within the framework of the powers vested in the Parliamentary Commission. However, I can also say and confirm that, on the one hand, this interim report of the Commission of Inquiry has confirmed all those controls that have been carried out so far, both by the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Internal Audits of UKC Ljubljana, professional, administrative controls, the Ministry of Health, the Medical Chamber, and, on the other hand, I believe that, to the extent that it is decided today by Members, this interim report can also be very helpful to the further law enforcement authorities, which will then have to finally investigate the matter after office. However, it is a fact that if these authorities had already responded in 2012, when this internal report was issued or in 2013 when the anti-corruption commission report or, last but not least, in 2015, in the context of an international report, the fact that these parliamentary investigative commissions would not need to be in this area at all. At the time of the Commission's establishment, there were doubts, but not only doubts, but there were a lot of concerns about the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that the Commission would not exceed its powers. And, of course, it is true for these warnings and again, irrespective of what has been shown today by some Members, that I am convinced that it has been within the framework of legal competence and that the Commission has carried out those investigations on the basis of the powers conferred by the law. Finally, I would like to point out that the Commission has therefore identified three of the most important things, in addition to all the other 33 essential findings that you have made at the end of the interim report, on the basis of the fact that it has therefore called for amendments to the legislation, the legislative and executive branch of government, the objective political responsibility of the former Minister and the Secretary of State and the suspicions of criminal services. And of course, all of this falls within the remit of the Commission of Inquiry. However, it is a fact that, in the case of criminal offences, it is only a matter of notice, and then it is for the competent authorities to take matters forward in accordance with the prescribed procedures. However, there is another fact that, in the previous term, we know that we had the Jelka Godec Commission of Inquiry, which revealed the affair of venous resistors, and I am sure that if this affair were not open, we would still be overpaid or paid several times more expensive today. And such cases of investigative commissions that we have here in Parliament then actually show the real purpose of our investigative commissions. Unfortunately, though, many times in Slovenia, no one is responsible for anything, even if things are discovered, they often go under the rug and then things go on as if nothing happened, and no one is responsible for anything. Let me remind you of another investigative committee to discover a billion-dollar bank hole. This was the Commission of Inquiry by Anžet Logar, who has come to important conclusions that have not yet experienced their epilogue. And that is why, in the end, it must be added that such investigative commissions are important, and both investigative commissions have done exceptional work in the previous term, and I believe that this investigative commission has done it to date. It is important that the public funding healthcare has the right to know what is going on in this health care, including all the shortcomings, mistakes and problems that healthcare has. I believe that only in this way will it be achieved that problems will no longer be shed under the carpet and that people in leadership functions will start to do what they are paid for, so, things will change for the better. It is important to be aware, after all, that our function, together with our mandate, also brings us responsibility. And we need to be aware of that for everyone who has a situation in society. Finally, the law enforcement authorities, who have to react in such cases, are, unfortunately, often not. Let me conclude that, by means of this interim report, the Commission of Inquiry has concluded its work in this area, on the programme of child cardiology and the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in this programme. And I wish and hope that these findings of the Commission of Inquiry will be taken over by the competent authorities in further proceedings and carried out in accordance with and on the basis of the powers conferred on them by the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? I take it it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the Magi proposer. Carmen Furman and the representative of the Government, please report by pressing the key to turn on the microphone; in this case you will get the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Four panellists have been reported. You have five minutes each. Jože Lenart has a word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to highlight these conclusions, or conclusions, which are given. In these points - 33 of them - they are very contradictory to each other. I would only point out that one of the main findings is that the project itself was created in 2007. And it is also very clear that the programme was not clearly drawn at the outset so that it could then develop. And as a very crucial issue, the 32nd point, where we wrote down nicely (I was also a member of the commission): "We can also conclude that Slovenia, with 2 million inhabitants, does not provide a critical mass of small patients in the field of congenital heart disease to ensure the organisation and implementation of a safe programme for patients and a financially sustainable programme. These findings make sense for Slovenia to organise a clinic, a small patient’s department for the treatment of congenital heart failures, which will treat a certain level of treatment, which requires a link to the nearest possible clinic for heart disease abroad.” See, this is a key conclusion at the end, if we agree to this, but we cannot, in the context of certain points, identify the responsibilities of individuals who are, of course, on this committee. Of course it was somehow a key target. The mistake was made at the beginning of why this programme even began to be established for the two million people, if we do not have the basic criteria for this development, which is very clearly written. And this is crucial, and therefore thank God in the 13th government, that Minister Fakin has made a decision and then, of course, this institution has somehow ceased to work, because the basics, I will say these technical or protective or how to say the possibilities virtually do not have. And that's what's essential, and that's why I'm saying that in these 33 points there's a lot of the opposite of us, and from this looking now at individual guilt and someone on the cross, if I may put it that way, it's completely pointless. It follows from the fact that, practically in 2007, who was involved at the time? Probably political, too. Politics has been interfering too much over the entire duration of this program, and this has been a silence, I will probably say the biggest mistake that we can't let go of this issue. And what we have heard today by the Secretary of State is not the final solution. and until the final solution is reached, but at the end of the day, every manager, it is clear to every entrepreneur what needs to be done in the beginning – to do one good project, a good program, a good plan that is gradually developing. And only by giving that real opportunity to achieve the ultimate goal of a successful program. And, of course, the easiest thing is, and I don't know why we don't know how to look over the fence and see how other such organisations are organised in Europe and in the world. As a member of the Commission, I have given many questions to individuals and it was very clear that abroad there are such institutes, I think at least it is an institute that has about 200 operations a year. That's the bottom line so the whole thing can work. And if this is not ensured, then you can't go to such an independent institute. And so thank God in the 13th government this institute shut down, then it shut down because there are no basic conditions for operation. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. We've heard enough. I was also a deputy, and for a while a member then a deputy member. And, as today, through the Commission, I was disturbed by the fact that we were involved in actually professional organisational, human resources and financial issues, even though it was a matter of the Commission seeking political responsibility. We were playing a little game, I'll say. Also, as my predecessor said, these 33 final points are also at odds with themselves. It is only a fact that if they have decided to organise this programme at some point in 2007 it is a prestigious programme. It was probably the wish of doctors, the leadership that this programme also has a clinical center in Ljubljana or that Slovenia has it because it is actually a prestige. If you're capable of doing this, that's it. But it was actually too small and it is still that these doctors who carry out these operations remain in condition because they have so many operations to perform that they are competent and capable of doing it. As with other things - if you don't do things, you're not more capable. So if it's too small, it's one thing or we get patients from elsewhere, which was also ambition, it could or could not have happened. Now, looking here specifically, pushing someone to the cross as my predecessor said, maybe it was actually a little excessive at all stages. However, it turned out that in fact there was a clinical center at some point, and especially this section, that it had organizational and managerial flaws that it was not doing well. But this isn't about political responsibility, that's what I'm saying. Who could we be looking for? Those who have set up what I know, political responsibility should be sought where it is objective, in the Ministry, in the Minister and State Secretaries, or also in those who sit in the Supervisory Council and are representatives from public institutions, when, for example, they find it difficult to talk about it, if the fault is in the leadership of such an important institute or the largest employee in Ljubljana with almost 8 000 employees, because it is the University Clinical Centre. We can look for something here, but it's a lot harder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The word is Mojca Žnidarič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. So, as a member of the Commission, I had already announced that I would point out some of those points of conclusion that we did not agree with alone or in the SMC. Therefore, we cannot agree with the statement referred to in point 10 of the concluding conclusions that the end of the treatment programme for children with congenital heart failure meant the establishment of NISA. I must stress once again that the programme has been failing for the last 13 years since 2007, as many debaters have already said before me today. And the systemic shortcomings were the responsibility of all the directors and all the professional directors of the UKC from 2007 onwards, including Mr Šabedr, who later became Minister. Together with all other decision makers, they also presented to the public the wrong picture of the implementation of the government project establishing the NIJSB. In doing so, it was overlooked that the programme had itself led to the brink of collapse. And in July 2018, it could be that sick children in the heart of Slovenia are both theoretically and practically without any care if at that time the UKC did not jump to the assistance of NIJSB at the time with their experts who unselfishly offered their knowledge and competence to receive this care. You probably remember when we also first met when we met in this Parliament we changed the law, that there was no need for knowledge of the Slovenian language for them, so that they could in exceptional cases be able to help. As one of the things I would point out in the report, therefore, the professional director of the surgical clinic, who also supported the centre for the treatment of children and adults with congenital heart failures, states, among other things: “The main obstacles to the successful implementation of the strategy are the interrelationships and mistrust among professional teams, which can only be exceeded by the inclusion of professionals who, in addition to professional quality, are able to develop the programme of child heart surgery. [[Incomprehensible]] Therefore, in my opinion, the Centre should not have employed doctors who are mentioned in any way in the programme from 2007 to 2013. Only in this way can all disruptive factors be excluded from the programme. We are further asked why Prof. Geršak insisted for 7 years on a system of occasional experienced surgeons who were present only three days a month in the UKC, and for the rest of the time the program was led by a specialist and then by a new specialist in cardiosurgery for adults who did not have the necessary knowledge in the field of paediatric cardio surgery. The Commission of Inquiry should examine in detail the motives of Prof. Dr. Gersak to insist on such a dangerous programme. Furthermore, point 24 of the Report of the Ministry of Health in the implementation of the programme in question is directly contrary to point 17 when the Minister is involved in the professional, human resources and management decisions. The fact is that the Ministry cannot be responsible for the implementation of a specific health programme where the provision of health services is a fundamental responsibility and responsibility of individual public institutions. However, since Dr. Kenda’s involvement is mainly meant to involve this discharge of Dr. Kenda, which has been repeatedly exposed today, I would like to point out that the discharge of Dr. Kende is not the task of the Minister or the Council of the UKC, but it is the task of the Director-General, who obviously wanted to transfer the responsibility to the Council of the UKC and then are members, I described in detail in a separate opinion, then one of the members of the Council of the Institute, who came as a representative of the Municipality of Ljubljana, asked whether the management of UKC Ljubljana in the matter of Prof. Dr. Rajk Kenda in the discharge process took into account or evaluated the possibility of complaints and cash claims in the event of a failure to resolve the situation and any complaints involved, since Dr. Kenda’s lawyer had already sent them a disagreement with those allegations. One decision was then adopted by the members of the Council of the Office to seek the legal opinion of the UKC and, in fact, the Minister-General then merely warned that the discharge was not conducted in accordance with laws and internal acts. But if, in fact, the world also understands the UKC, because Mr. Kenda [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u49	Unfortunately, time is no longer available. As the latter, the representative of the proposer shall have the floor, mag. Carmen Furman.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The work of the commission of inquiry is somehow denied by colleague Mödenrdorf. I understand that, because in his discussion, his colleague kept his mouth shut that he had to say good-bye to the Commission. In the course of the investigation, it was also found that he was alone during the period during which the Commission of Inquiry investigated him, and also a member of the Board of the Institute at UKC Ljubljana, who, of course, silenced the Commission, violated the law on the Commission of Inquiry. And in this fact, I also understand how the colleague responds to the report of the anti-corruption commission, that he is not in some way interested in such reports, even though it follows from them that corruption has been found in these cases by this competent authority since 2013. Now that it opposes the essential findings or sees a fellow Member of the LMŠ. Look, buddy, I really don't understand this, because you were and are members of the commission of inquiry, and you yourself have added an additional explanation, or words, which have been included in the conclusions themselves, and in the end you are also in favour of these essential findings. I understand this then that you have also agreed with these conclusions, because I do not agree with anything, I will certainly not vote in favour. Now, indeed, from the discussions of individual fellow Members here, I do not understand that you have given your vote for this interim report at the time of the investigative commission, but now you are debarking yourself here in some way in your deliberations. Well, I'd rather not have much more time at the end, but I'd like to answer my colleague Starovic. Look, the commission hasn't been working on any professional matters. The Commission has worked solely within the framework of its legal competences, which it has and is based on these essential findings, the 33 essential findings you have in the interim report, and on this basis a decision is also proposed, indicating the suspicion of criminal services. And I would really like to ask that the second time, honourable fellow Members, if you are already saying something here, do not use a flat-rate, but say specific cases, because the flat-rate reasoning, that the investigative commission has embarked on the professional decisions of individual physicians, is severe and is a matter of real mistaking of the public. And please, I will say, really flat-rate claims, to the extent that you can't back them up with some concrete cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm concluding. There's no replica, I'm sorry. There's no replica in time-sharing. I'm closing the debate. The assembly will decide on the essential findings and the proposal for a decision will take place today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIS IS ANOTHER DEPARTMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE PAYMENT SERVICES, ELECTRIC DENMARK SERVICES AND PAYMENT SYSTEMS, IN THE framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u52	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The National Assembly today discusses the proposal for a law [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u53	Excuse me. I'm asking for a pay phone.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u54	Honourable Presidents, honourable Members and Members. The National Assembly is today discussing a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems, which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has forwarded to the National Assembly for consideration following an urgent procedure. Directive 2018/843 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for money laundering or terrorist financing is partially transposed into Slovenian law. That Directive requires Member States to establish a central register of bank accounts. The Republic of Slovenia has had a register of bank accounts established for many years and is called the Register of Transaction Accounts. The Register of Transaction Accounts is maintained by the Public Records and Services Agency of the Republic of Slovenia and is regulated by the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money and Payment Systems. The existing Register of Transaction Accounts should be supplemented in order to transpose the Directive in question, since it does not include all the data required by the Directive. In addition to the existing data, the registry will also cover information on the holder of the transaction account, the actual owner of the transaction account holder and the safes. The proposal for a law also lays down penalties for infringement of the provisions of Regulation 2019/518 as regards certain refunds on cross-border payments in the Union and for the conversion of currencies provided for in that Regulation. The draft law also aligns the text of the Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems with the amendment of Directive 2015/2366 on payment services in the internal market. Directive 2015/2366 was transposed by the Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems, which was adopted before the publication of that amendment of the Directive. In addition to the amendments relating to European Union legislation, the proposal includes some other amendments which have proved necessary on the basis of the implementation of the law in practice and for the elimination of certain uncertainties or inconsistencies in the text of the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money and Payment Systems. Dear Members and Members, we propose that the National Assembly adopt the proposed text of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money and Payment Systems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. At its 43rd urgent meeting on 6 July this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems submitted by the Government to the National Assembly following an urgent procedure for handling and reception. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law have been tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups, to four articles. In its introduction, the State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance presented the objectives and objectives of the draft law, namely the transposition of the amendment to Directive 2015/2366 of the European Union, the establishment of sanctions for infringements of the provisions of Regulation 2019/51/18 of the European Union, the completion of the register of transaction accounts and the elimination of individual uncertainties under the existing law. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service presented the comments made in the written opinion of the service and explained that most of the comments were taken into account in the amendments or were further clarified by the applicant. There was no debate on the proposed amendments to the law on the Committee on Finance. Therefore, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments tabled at Articles 1, 4, 13 and 19. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, Joseph Horvat, has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Followed by Alenka Bratušek's Group of Members, Marko Bandelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you, President, for your word. Your Honor! The main purpose of the amendment is to transpose the rules of the European Union into national law. The novelties are adopted by emergency procedure, as Slovenia is facing a financial penalty because of the inadequate transposition of existing European rules. The amendments relate to the provisions governing the transaction account registry maintained by the APES. The Register will also provide information on the actual owner of the transaction account holder. In the SAB Group, we welcome the proposed solution, because without the knowledge of who the final owner of the legal person is, we cannot effectively combat the phenomenon of money laundering. In 2019, a Regulation was adopted regulating refunds for cross-border payments in the Union and refunds for the conversion of currencies. While the Regulation applies directly in all Member States of the European Union, each Member State must lay down penalties in the case of infringements in national legislation. The amendment is therefore subject to sanctions for infringement of the Regulation. In particular, any payment service provider shall be subject to sanctions which will not show any accounted compensation for the conversion of currencies and which will not provide the payer with any information in advance. The payment service provider shall, when providing currency conversion services at the ATM or at the point of sale, specify all currency conversion fees as a percentage premium at the last available euro reference exchange rate issued by the European Central Bank. The premium must be disclosed to the tenderer before the transaction itself. The payer must be provided with information on the amount paid by the payer in the currency from his account at the ATM or at the place of sale. Before determining the transaction, the payer shall be informed of the possibility of payment in the currency used by the payer and of the possibility of prior currency conversion prior to payment. The payer must provide an electronic message to the payer with information on the currency conversion fees for each payment card issued to the payer as soon as he receives a cash withdrawal order at the ATM or for payment at the place of sale if the payment is not made in the payer’s account currency. In the SAB Group, we will support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The payment systems and securities settlement systems, the so-called settlement systems, are an important part of the economic and financial infrastructure that allows the transfer of funds and financial instruments. By ensuring a secure, efficient and timely settlement of financial transactions, payment and settlement systems make a key contribution to the current functioning of financial markets and thus to the overall stability and efficiency of the economy. Payment and settlement systems are, in fact, a set of instruments, procedures, rules and technology support for the transfer of information and the settlement of funds or financial instruments between their participants. The Government has submitted to the National Assembly the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money Services and Payment Systems, which aims to harmonise the content of the law with the legal order of the European Union. Slovenia already has a register of transaction accounts, which is a single, computerised database of transaction accounts and their holders. The European Directive requires that this register be supplemented with information on authorised holders of transaction accounts, actual owners of transaction invoice holders and actual owners of safes. By supplementing the register, it will be possible to better prevent the use of the financial system for money laundering or the financing of terrorism. The law also lays down penalties for infringements of the Regulation with regard to certain compensations for cross-border payments in the Union and for the conversion of currencies. Sanctions relate to service providers which do not show accrued currency conversion fees and do not provide information to the payer before the payment transaction is determined. The payment service provider must ensure that public, comprehensible and accessible electronic platforms are generally available. By establishing such solutions, it will be primarily possible for payers to compare compensation for the different options for the conversion of currencies. Practical implementation at European Union level will facilitate the functioning of the internal market of the European Union and eliminate inequalities between payment service users in the Member States of the European Monetary Union and the Member States of the European Union outside the euro area in relation to cross-border payments in euro. The fact is that currency conversion refunds represent a significant part of the costs of cross-border payments when two different currencies are used in the Member State of the payer and in the Member State of the payee. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Payment Services, Electronic Money and Payment Systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u62	Good afternoon. It's a nice greeting to everyone once again. Mr. Vice President, Ivánusha here, Ivanúša is someone else. Well, I won't complicate it any more. More than this bill, it is important for the Slovenian National Party to amend the European Regulation concerning certain cross-border payment refunds in the European Union and currency conversion refunds. This Regulation will finally establish a single payment market. Even today, individuals and businesses in Member States of the European Union who do not have the euro pay high fees for cross-border payments. The Slovenians pay the most of these compensations in Croatia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and it is therefore appropriate to establish a normal equal payment market. This means that all cross-border payments in euro are the same as domestic payments in the local currency of the Member State. Another important novelty with regard to the European Regulation is the refund for the conversion of currencies in respect of card payments and credit payments. Before any payment is made, the consumer must be fully informed of the costs of the conversion of the currency. If the payment service provider does not inform it, it must be sanctioned, because in such cases it is a matter of scrutinising consumers. A good example is raising cash on ATMs abroad. Why did the ATMs even ask us a question in terms of conversion or no conversion if raising cash in the local currency without conversion is the most favourable? Then we should simply ban banks from offering us the opportunity to raise cash through conversion. This is a matter of direct misleading the consumer. Banks are already charging us bills to raise cash on ATMs anyway. Then the commission is charged to us by the owners of ATMs abroad. Since ATMs across Europe are not in the Slovenian language, it is difficult to follow the fine print on all the additional costs of banking services. As tourists, we don't even have too much time to walk around the city looking for the most comfortable ATM. In the Slovenian national side, we propose to the Government or our MEPs to launch a mandatory initiative to use all EU official languages in all ATMs in the European Union. The cost would be minimal, since all banks would have similar texts. But all ATMs would be much more user-friendly. Next, the European Union also requires Member States, through its directives, to introduce centralised automated mechanisms for obtaining data on persons holding bank accounts or safes in individual country banks. We are discussing some registers of bank accounts in 2020. It is also established that data should be made readily and directly available to national financial intelligence bodies. Doesn't that make sense? How, though, is it being monitored today without access to this important data? If this European Union wanted to eradicate money laundering and tax havens, all Member States of the European Union should have access to all bank accounts of all European Union citizens. But it would not help in Slovenia either, because money laundering is done through state-owned banks. The last very strange thing is the YAPES transaction account register, where account details and account holders are kept. The data set would be expanded by information on the authorised persons of the transaction account holder, the actual owners of the transaction account holder and the safe data. These are additional three data which have no impact on most accounts at all. As the information system will need to be adjusted, the IAPES will have a cost of up to EUR 25 000. Watch out. For the introduction of additional three account data, the price will be EUR 25 000. The JAPES information system could be adapted in practice to students of some secondary computer school. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose that as many information solutions as possible for the public sector be prepared by students and students of our faculty. All we have to do is use it. This would reduce the costs of the public sector and increase the motivation of students and students who would do something useful during education. Because most of the amendments to the bill are good to him in the Slovenian National Party we will not oppose. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Suzanne Leup Šimenka. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. The proposal for a law on payment services, electronic money services and payment systems, which is now before us, relates to the implementation of Directives and Regulations 2019-5118. The key solutions are: the proposal for a law lays down sanctions for payment service providers which do not show the amounts charged for the conversion of currencies and does not provide the payer with information. Before regulating the payment transaction, the payer must be informed of the possibility of payment to the currency used by the payee and the possibility of conversion of the currency then effecting the payment service provider to the payer. The draft law also lays down a sanction for a payment service provider who does not communicate to the user information on the refund for currency conversion for each payment card issued to the payer. Without undue delay, after receiving a payment order to raise cash in an ATM or for payment at a place of sale expressed in any EU currency other than the currency of the payer's account. Complementarity of the transaction account register. The Republic of Slovenia has a register of bank accounts established and does not include all the data required by that Directive and should therefore be supplemented. In addition to the existing data, the registry will also cover information on the holder of the transaction account, the actual owner of the transaction account holder and the safes. The proposal for a law includes some other amendments. Among other things, Article 243 of the Act provides for the competence of the Bank of Slovenia to control banks with regard to the provision of payment services under this Act. So far, this presence has not been directly established in the Payment Services Act, but indirectly in the Banking Act. In the SDS, we will support the proposed amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group of Members will be presented by mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much for taking the floor. Colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the statutory law governing payment services, systems, electronic transactions and the ever-increasing issue of electronic money are necessary in order to complement the European legal framework. When the rules change at European level, each country, of course, also Slovenia, is obliged to supplement its rules by complying with European rules. The rapidly evolving area of digital payments and payment services is, of course, subject to the rapid development of technology, as well as the need for traceability and control. This particular area is also an ideal field for abuse if no robust symmetem is established. The amended European Money Laundering and Financing Directive requires the collection of certain data from market participants that have not been required by the rules so far. This is mainly the data on the actual owners of transaction accounts and safes. Only this traceability allows proper supervision of the competent authorities. Such a change in marriage should be nothing special, but unfortunately, there have been certain patterns here that apparently insist on every government. The Directive entered into force four years ago. However, the deadline for adapting Slovenian legislation expired two years ago. Thus, we are again threatened with high penalties in such circumstances, and in Slovenia the content is unfortunately not insignificant. In such cases, the government and the majority of Members only require the swift adoption of legislation and the avoidance of penalties, even though there was plenty of time for this before, but only the will ran out. Your Honor! This legal area is indeed technically difficult and professionally specific, but it is not about changes that concern only bankers and financiers. The same set of rules, for example, provided for the possibility of a duty free payment or a card payment of smaller amounts without typing a pin number every time. And in the same rules, for example, the Slovenian Post Office seeks justification for collecting personal data of everyone who makes the smallest payments at the post office without real need. We stress all this because these complex financial content is not without meaning for ordinary people. At least try to understand them, explain them to people. Finally, it would be good to take advantage of the possibility and try to create, within the framework of the Directive, such a domestic regime that will be as appropriate as possible to our legal order. Instead, all too often and also this bill is not an exception, it is too late and hastely copied the basic articles of the directive, and then hastens into Parliament by adopting legislation in order to catch a deadline, not to get a better marriage. All of this has been clearly and repeatedly pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service in its opinion. The amendments drafted by the coalition, however, have met at least the basic warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service, but have not improved the impression that we are re-adopting legal changes just so as not to offend Europe. Not to improve domestic regulation, although we will not oppose the adoption of law in the SD Group, but in such circumstances it is difficult for us to express our sincere support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the SAB Group will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, Secretary of State, I'm a good-bye! Thus, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act, which we are considering today in the National Assembly, was primarily prepared to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/2177 of the European Parliament and of the Council from the end of December 2019 into the Slovenian acquis. Otherwise, the deadline is 30. 6. 2020, which, inter alia, amends Directive 2009/138 of the European Parliament and of the Council in three areas. The first area is the provision of information to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority by the supervisory authorities of the home Member State on the authorisation of insurance undertakings to use the internal model in calculating the solvency capital requirement. The second area is the area that is changing, i.e. the calculation of technical provisions collateral for the purposes of calculating capital requirements. In addition, it prescribes enhanced exchange of information and cooperation between supervisory authorities in the calculation of the required insurance and occupational pension. The draft law also included the transposition of the provisions of the two EU Council Decisions on the signing of a bilateral agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on the elimination of local presence requirements and the deposit of funds for sub-insurance undertakings established in the United States of America that conclude sub-insurance contracts in the European- [[There's a riot in the hall.]] We have insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u69	No, we don't have insurance.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u70	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, I've read the next item so I can read the right one next time. In short, we will support this position, and we will also support what will follow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. That's what happens. The position of the Parliamentary Group Levica will be presented by Boštjan Koražija. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u72	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. We have before us the amendment of the Law on Payment Services, which transposes into the Slovenian legal order two directives of the European Union and lays down sanctions for infringements of the provisions of the EU Regulation of 2019 concerning compensation for cross-border payments and currency conversion. We support the imposition of sanctions for infringements of the EU regulation in Levica, since banks and other payment service providers are making it difficult to charge hidden fees and the user is more transparent. The EU Regulation requires the payment service provider to demonstrate to the user, as soon as the transaction is carried out, the amount of the refund charged for the conversion of currencies and also to inform the user of all other information and options and tariffs relating to the transaction in question. This information must be provided to the user when converting at the place of sale or at the ATM. Many times, increases and payments occurred that they were associated with disproportionately high costs in relation to the services provided, and the users were only exposed to the delay when the transaction itself or its course could no longer be affected. The new arrangement therefore imposes sanctions on the tenderer who does not disclose the premium to the payer before it finally confirms the transaction. The remuneration must be presented in an easily accessible and easily accessible manner, while at the place of payment the payer must also be disclosed to the payer the amount received by the payer in his currency at the same time as the amount paid by the payer in his currency. The payer must also be informed of the possibility of payment in the payer’s currency and the possibility of converting the currency to the payer’s service provider. All such information must also be made available to the payer after a certain transaction, namely on one of the permanent data carriers. The payer shall also be obliged to send an electronic message to the payer with information on the refund for the conversion of currencies for each payment card individually, as soon as he has received an order to raise or pay in a currency different from the currency of the user's account. This is specifically the case for currencies within the EU. The new payment service law will allow payment service users to be more transparent in exchange offices, bank windows and ATMs. Banks and other payment service providers, however, will find it difficult to take advantage of uninformed people. That is why we will, of course, support the novel in Levica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW, IN THE framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Peter Ješovnik, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u74	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Allow me to present the purpose and main solutions of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. This legislative proposal was primarily prepared to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/2177 into the Slovenian legal order. Directive 2019/2177 amends the basic insurance directive solvency 2 in three areas. Firstly, in the field of informing the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority by the supervisory authorities of the home Member State of the authorisation granted to the insurance undertaking to use the internal model in calculating the solvency capital requirement. Secondly, in the field of calculation of insurance technical provisions for the purposes of calculating capital requirements and for the third time in the field of enhanced information exchange and cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the EU Member States and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. We have also included in the draft law the transposition of the provisions of the two parts of the EU Council on the signing of a bilateral agreement between the EU and the United States on the lifting of requirements for local presence and the deposit of re-insurance assets established in the US, which conclude reinsurance contracts in the EU area. The draft law deletes the provisions of the Insurance Act governing the operation and the prudential requirements for pension companies carrying out supplementary pension insurance because this area has been regulated by the Act amending and supplementing the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The bill also eliminates some of the inconsistencies and uncertainties found in the current legal text. The text of the bill was supplemented by amendments following the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service at the meeting of the Committee on Finance on 6 July, which contributes to greater clarity of the text. In view of all the above, I propose that you support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the Committee's report, I give the floor to President Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, Madam Members. At its 43rd emergency meeting on 6 July this year, the Finance Committee considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. It was submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following an emergency procedure. In accordance with Rule 129 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the coalition groups tabled amendments to Article 7 of the bill. The State Secretary from the Ministry of Finance pointed out or explained in the introduction that the draft law transposes the European Union Directive 2019/2177, which, inter alia, amends the basic Directive in the field of insurance. The amendments relate to the notification of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority to the calculation of the technical provisions for the purposes of capital requirements and the enhanced exchange of information and cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the Member States and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. It also explained that the draft law takes into account the decisions of the European Union on the signing of a bilateral agreement between the European Union and the United States of America. The Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency pointed out that the main purpose of the bill was to transpose the Directive of the European Union and that it had encountered some inconsistencies which they were eliminating by means of a proposal for a law. He also highlighted good cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Slovenian Insurance Association. The Director of the Slovenian Insurance Association said that they had no comments on the bill and on the amendments tabled. The discussion expressed opposition by individual members to the provisions of the proposal for a law relating to an agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on prudential measures relating to insurance and reinsurance. The content of the said agreement was also presented, allowing insurance and reinsurance companies from the United States of America to have easier access to the Slovenian market. The question of the meaning of the agreements, as mentioned in the agreement between the European Union and the United States, was also raised from the perspective of the European Green Agreement. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance provided some additional clarifications on the concerns expressed in the debate. It stressed that Slovenia is a member of the European Union and must respect the agreements concluded by the European Union as a whole and must also transpose them into national legislation. With regard to the debate on the provisions of the proposal, she explained that they did not see any reservations. It was also approved by the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, which is the main State Insurance Supervisory Institution. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 130 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee considered and adopted the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 8, 9, 11, 18, 30, 38 and 48 of the draft law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Marko Bandelli, Party Alenka Bratušek, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you, Vice President. Your Honor! Amendment to the Directive on the introduction of improvements in the field of information to the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. The supervisory authorities of the home country shall inform the supervisory authority of any authorisation granted to the insurance undertaking to use the internal model in calculating the required solvency capital. The supervisory authorities of the home country shall also be provided with technical assistance in deciding on the role of the insurance undertaking in the application of the internal model for the calculation of solvency capital. In the field of cross-border business, enhanced information exchange and cooperation with supervisory authorities shall be introduced. The draft law also contains a solution contained in the bilateral agreement between the European Union and the United States of America on prudential measures relating to insurance and reinsurance which entered into force in April 2018. The bilateral agreement sets out the prudential conditions to be met in order to remove the local presence and reinsurance requirement. Due to the relevant system arrangements, provisions of the Disability and Pension Insurance Act governing the operations and ratings of pension companies providing supplementary pension insurance have been transferred to the novel. We believe that the novelty will contribute to better information on the financial situation of insurance undertakings operating across borders within the internal market. Only consistent implementation of the regulation in the entire Union will allow for a review of the financial stability of the insurance and financial markets of individual Member States. In the SAB Group, we will support the novel.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. The position of the Desus Group will be presented by Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Slovenian insurance is an important and sovereign pillar of the financial system and the economy as a whole. In doing so, it cannot be overlooked that it is placed in a broader framework for the development of the whole financial sector in the European Union. The establishment of the European Union's common insurance market is based primarily on the responsibility and care for the protection of insured persons, especially natural persons and families, the maintenance of economic capacity and the protection and social security of the population. The basis of all these objectives is the permanent confidence of the population and the economy in insurance institutions, in their stability and stability. The Solvency 2 Directive provides for the implementation of internal organisational measures in insurance companies on virtually all elements of the organisational structure in management, management, human resources policy, technology introduction, risk management, etc. The proposed amendments to the Insurance Act transfer certain amendments to the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia to this important directive. The provisions of the Solvency 2 Directive are amended in the field of calculation of technical provisions for the purposes of calculating capital requirements in terms of taking account of the State component. The requirement for the share of the State component shall be reduced by reducing the threshold for the range of the State share by correction from hundreds to 85 basis points. The correction is necessary because the applicable European Union legislation is not sufficiently harmonised with regard to the calculation of insurance technical provisions. The area of such calculation is comparatively one of those where the greatest differences are between the members of the European Union. The new arrangement will provide for a harmonised approach to their calculation and thus achieve a more mutually comparable requirement for the necessary equity to ensure the solvency of insurance and reinsurance undertakings. The Directive also amends the Solvency Directive 2 in the sense of enhanced information exchange and cooperation between the supervisory authorities of the Member States and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. It prescribes requirements for mutual notification in the event of important cross-border activities and crisis situations. The aim is to provide better information on the financial situation of insurance undertakings operating across borders within the internal market. This is a condition for a more qualitative review of the financial stability of insurance markets. The impact of the epidemic is available from insurance and reinsurance companies in Slovenia and abroad to the great challenges of ensuring capital adequacy. The European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority therefore proposed not to pay the dividends achieved by the results of last year's operations. In the Slovenian case, it was also proposed by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. With the temporary default of dividends, insurance companies will increase their resistance to the financial shock resulting from the spread of the virus during the course of the epidemiological situation. The proposal is not unexpected, but it is realistic that such financial resources will significantly help to maintain financial stability and depreciate expected disruptions in the business of insurance undertakings. Members of the Desus Group will support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Marko Pogačnik will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u82	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Insurance Act. The provisions of the draft law constitute an EU Directive by means of the proposed law, which is transposed into the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The most important principles of the proposed law are the principles of equal treatment for insurance undertakings and reinsurance undertakings engaged in reinsurance and insurance transactions and obligations imposed on them in uniform application throughout the European Union. The principle of prudent and effective supervision shall be laid down by the competent supervisory authority, its powers to issue a larger set of control measures and its commitment to cooperate with the competent authorities of other Member States so that they can effectively achieve the objectives of control. The Regulator of the Insurance Supervisory Agency, the Insurance Association, do not oppose and support the proposed law. In the SDS Group, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret is next to present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, chairman. Nice greetings from the government. Colleagues and colleagues! Last year, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia announced that the average citizen of Slovenia spent a little over €800 on insurance in 2018. Of this, life and voluntary health insurance is on average EUR 263 and EUR 259 per year, as well as insurance for motor vehicles and liability for the use of motor vehicles on average EUR 190 per year. All insurance and reinsurance companies are on day 31. 12. 2018 showed an excess of the periphery own resources over the required solvency capital. Insurance undertakings shall demonstrate a capital adequacy ratio of 222 % and a reinsurance undertaking of 288. We can therefore say that we have a well-developed insurance market, at least for a period prior to the emergence of COVID-19. With regard to the amendment under consideration for the transposition of Directive 2019/2077, the deadline for transposition of the provisions is 30 June, and the Government has therefore proposed that the amendment be treated in accordance with the urgency procedure and there is nothing to be added to this. In the LMŠ Group, however, we find it problematic that what has already been exposed to the Committee on Finance is to pass a bilateral agreement between the EU and the United States on prudential measures relating to insurance and reinsurance through a novelty of silence. Otherwise, it is a fact that the agreement is concluded and must be respected. However, representatives of the Government, the Slovenian Insurance Association and, above all, our insurance regulator would expect a little more critical thoughts from the Finance Committee. The fact is that insurance and reinsurance companies from the US that enter the Slovenian market will be able to cover almost all regulatory requirements that apply at European Union level. The condition that an insurance company from the United States in the Republic of Slovenia can also operate without a branch in the Republic of Slovenia. They can also circumvent virtually all the collateral requirements currently in place in the EU for the conclusion of a reinsurance contract for EU insurers. Regulatory authorities at the level of the European Union, including the Slovenian ANS, the Insurance Supervisory Agency, will therefore no longer be competent to supervise the operations of American insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the European Union, as they are being monitored by the authorities from the US. I must say, we lost our historical memory very quickly. Why? Indeed, one of the main culprits for the outbreak of the global financial crisis, which started in the US as a mortgage crisis, was AEG's insurance company, which speculated with derivatives, while the US supervisory authorities remained silent as Clint's administration then completely deregulated the financial instruments market. It is difficult to ensure that this will not happen again. If the cycle of history were to turn back into a deregulation of insurance companies from the ZDS, it would be easier to take over the market in the Republic of Slovenia, as they would not be subject to the rule than our insurance companies. The largest owner of our re-insurance companies Triglav RE and Sava RE are ourselves, i.e. the country via SDH, ZPIS and other institutions. For these reasons, we will abstain from voting in the Parliamentary Group of the List of Marjan Sarca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u86	I've already done this job in part, so, as it were. It is about implementation and the directives and the two conclusions of the EU Council. This amendment also deletes certain provisions of the Insurance Act governing the operation and the prudential requirements of pension companies, since the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the law on pension and disability insurance is now regulated by this bill. It also eliminates some of the inconsistencies found. The text currently contains a valid insurance law. And given the fact that they did not have any comments on the proposal of the law in the Slovenian Insurance Association, we will also unanimously support this proposal of this Insurance Act in the SMC Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Luka Mesec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word and a nice hello! The government novel of the insurance law is at first sight a benign novel, which even strengthens the supervision of the insurance market in Slovenia. The problem with this novelty is that it hides a rotten egg, which is the basic principle of law, which is the principle of careful and effective control, puts it on its head and challenges it. The novelty contains a provision implementing the EU-US agreement on prudential measures in respect of insurance and reinsurance. This is a harmful agreement that deregulations the business of both commercial insurance and reinsurance undertakings operating in the US and operating in the European Union. On the one hand, the government boasts that it builds up the European regulation of the insurance market; on the other hand, through the back door, it is launching fully deregulated American insurance companies, which can easily bypass European and Slovenian regulations with this law. American commercial insurance companies will be able to operate in the future in Slovenia without taking into account the conditions and regulations applicable to European and Slovenian insurance companies. The government hides all this in the law. We do not know anything about this agreement in the law, nor in the introduction, nor in the explanations. You need an agreement to know what's going on, literally look for yourself on the Internet. Of course, this thing is harmful. On the one hand, it will harm all people who benefit from insurance and reinsurance services in Europe because of lowering standards and deregulations, they will be exposed to higher risks. On the other hand, this serves exclusively the interests of US commercial reinsurance undertakings which do not meet the high collateral requirements in force in Europe. Indeed, they must use their capital as collateral and cannot, for example, use it for purchases of securities or speculation in financial markets. All of this means, above all, dumping for Slovenian and European insurance companies. In fact, we're going to get a double world. On the one hand, American insurance companies that will be able to circumvent European and national regulations, on the other hand, Slovenian and European insurance companies which will have to comply with these standards. All of this brings us back 10 or 15 years before the previous financial crisis, which happened precisely because of deregulation. As I recall, among the main culprits of the outbreak of the global financial crisis in 2007 in the United States was the American International Group or AIG insurance company, which you probably know well. It has speculated on financial markets and mortgage markets long before the crisis. But the U.S. authorities have only observed this silently. After the collapse of the mortgage market, AIG suffered huge losses and the entire financial sector in the United States collapsed. The only reason that AIG survived was because it was too big to fail, too big to let it go to waste. And U.S. citizens had to rescue AIG with public funds. The negligence of the supervisory authorities and the deregulation of them alone cost EUR 150 billion. So why is this agreement harmful? First of all, it opens the door of deregulation again. Second, because it sets double standards. American insurance and reinsurance companies will not have to adhere to national and European rules in the European Union and Slovenia. Thirdly, since this dumping puts competitive pressure on European insurance companies as well. It will probably not take long for the hotels themselves to have the same conditions as will be the case again for American insurance companies and we will be back in the world of deregulated finances, which we have also paid in the previous decade by citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with five billion euros and a lost decade. We will vote against this provision in the left hand side.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mr Jožef Horvat will present the position of the NSI member. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Although it is a very complex text before us, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is very complex. We in New Slovenia have studied this text and will also support the bill. The objectives of the bill are as follows. Firstly, transposition of the provisions of Directive 2019/21-77 concerning work relating to the amendment of the so-called Solvency 2 Directive. Another time. Transfer of the provisions of the two Council conclusions on an agreement between the European Union and the United States of America. Third time. Compliance with the provisions of SPIZ-2G. And the fourth time. Eliminating identified deficiencies and inconsistencies in the Insurance Act 1. Amendments to the Insurance Act to transpose the provisions of Directive 2019/21-77 go in the direction of four solutions. The first time the AZN of the Insurance Supervisory Agency grants the insurance undertaking an authorisation to use the internal model in calculating the solvency capital requirement, the supervisory authority of the State, that is, the AZN in our case, must also inform the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. Second solution. When AZN decides or decides to authorise an insurance undertaking to use an internal model, the amendment of the law provides, in accordance with the Directive, for the possibility of the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority providing technical assistance. Third solution. Strengthening the harmonised application of European Union law. To this end, the Directive provides for enhanced exchange of information and cooperation between supervisory authorities of countries and the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority. It shall copy the notification requirements in the event of significant cross-border insurance or crisis activities and the possibility and conditions for the establishment of cooperation platforms where the envisaged cross-border insurance activity is relevant to the host Member State market. And a fourth solution goes in the direction of change in risk management, more specifically in the field of technical reserve insurance for the purposes of calculating capital requirements. The value of insurance technical provisions shall be equal to the sum of the best estimate and the risk allowance. And maybe you'll let me understand you here, because most of the Slovenian public probably don't know them. The value of the technical provisions shall be equal to the amount paid by the insurance undertaking to the other insurance undertaking if the other insurance undertaking immediately assumes its obligations to the beneficiaries of the insurance contracts. Best grade. The best estimate corresponds to the average of future cash flows, as determined by weighing the value or probability of implementation. The risk allowance is so high that, together with the best estimate, it ensures that the value of the technical provisions is equivalent to the amount required by other insurance undertakings to assume and fulfil the obligations of the beneficiaries of the insurance contracts. As I have already said, the NSI Group will support the amendment of the Insurance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. And since in the second reading the amendments to the amended bill were not tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, in the framework of the vote, by terminating this agenda item and the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 2.55 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 2.20 p.m.) (The sitting resumed at 14.55 p.m.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u92	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Ladies and gentlemen! We continue with the adjourned session of the assembly. We are moving on to a vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions, which will be voted on in the following order: 11, 2 and 3 points. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 11th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the midterm report on the identification of the responsibilities of public function holders in the children's cardiology programme. We are moving on to a decision on the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry, which are recorded in the interim report on pages 73 to 144. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Member of Parliament, colleague Jani Möderndorfer.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much, President. In the LMŠ Group, we have decided that, so today I will also give an opinion on the proposal for a decision, so that I will not report twice that we will not support both the vote on the final joint conclusions and the vote on the proposal for conclusions. The reason is simple; however, the Commission eventually missed a certain part of the documents, a certain part of the testimonies, in its serious work in the report. And what's even more important, of course, has only led one way, which is to take responsibility for the 20-year systematic failure of the centre or, I'll say, the areas of cardiovascular surgery or the fight against the treatment of children's hearts, and thus, of course, has made provision to essentially find a political culprit for the whole story of only one person, and this is Milojka Kolar Celarc, which, of course, is absolutely not true. That is why all ministers can be held accountable in the context of the problem at the University Clinical Centre Ljubljana, because it is even more important for this area and what, in our opinion, the Commission should find the key players who worked in this area, and these are with doctors, they are responsible holders of functions in the clinical centre and should actually play their part, and they are not. That is why, of course, we will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. My colleague Žnidarič, on behalf of the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u95	Opinion on behalf of the Group of Members. We will vote in the SMC Group against the essential findings of this report. We cannot agree that the very one and only minister who tried to do anything to solve this 12th, 13th-year-old agony should now be essentially responsible or politically responsible for what she has done. Minister Milojka Kolar Celarc and her State Secretary, Dr Ana Medved, have made the most of the contributions to resolve matters, so we will vote against them.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. My friend Jože Lenart in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u97	Yes, thank you very much. Given that I was a member of the Commission and that I was a member of the Commission after a subsequent decision, when we changed responsibility, not only politically, we are conditional, I voted in favour on condition, so this matter was somehow closed and came to the National Assembly today. Today I will vote against and I will explain. Look, the 33 conclusions we see here are very contradictory. And I am voting against this because the 28th point is that practically at the very beginning of 2007 there was a problem because the establishment of this heart surgery, which started at the time, did not have the basic conditions for this to be established. In point 32, this conclusion is clear, and we can conclude that Slovenia, with two million inhabitants, does not provide a critical mass of small patients in the field of congenital heart disease to ensure the organisation and implementation of a safe programme for patients and a financially sustainable programme. That's the fact that we're talking about not being able to look for any personal facts today. [[sign for the end of the debate]] responsibility in all these years, and I will therefore vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 82 Members present, for 35, for 38. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the essential findings of the Commission of Inquiry are not accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 79 Members present, for 35, for 29. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 29.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Proceed with break 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE PAYMENT SERVICES, ELECTRIC DENMARK SERVICES AND PAYMENT SYSTEMS IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill – the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. 82 Members are present for 74, against no one. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break three. PERIOD OF THE DAY — THIRD DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE SURVEILLANCE LAW IN THE FRAMEWORK OF THE CURRENT PROCEDURE. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to the third reading of the bill – the decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the working body would make the proposal inconsistent. Mr Luka Moon, on behalf of the Group of Ambassadors, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u99	Yes, thank you very much. In principle, this proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Insurance Act is now in order. It is a law which transposes the European Directive and which adheres to the principles of careful and effective supervision of insurance undertakings. The problem is that it has a rotten egg, and this is the implementation of the EU-US agreement on prudential measures in relation to insurance and reinsurance, which is mentioned in the law by a single sentence and this agreement needs to be sought online to see what this is all about. This is the following: it is an agreement that makes the American insurance and reinsurance undertakings operating in Europe virtually exempt from regulation. Not Slovenian regulators, such as the Insurance Agency, nor European regulators such as the European Occupational Pension Insurance Authority, will be no longer competent to verify the operation of American commercial insurance and reinsurance undertakings on European soils, but credit rating controls of these insurance undertakings can be performed only by American, true ocean regulators. Another problem is that it reduces the capital requirements for the operations of American insurance companies, so that they still have more money to buy securities and speculate on financial markets, which, of course, puts people insured in Europe at a disadvantage because they will be exposed to higher risks, while at the same time placing their European competitors at a disadvantage as they establish double criteria; one that applies to US insurance companies, the other that apply to Europeans. This, of course, creates competitive pressure for European insurance companies to demand something similar to themselves and brings us back to the world from ten, fifteen years ago, because of the ongoing financial deregulation. There's been a financial meltdown on the market. If I recall, at the heart of that crisis in 2007, the American International Group was an insurance company, you probably already heard about the AIG, which, because of its speculation in the financial and mortgage markets, made such a hole that US taxpayers had to cover it with $150 billion. And now ten years later we act as if all of this is forgotten and we are going back to some world before the financial crisis where the financial capital will be free, but all the rest of us are somehow counting on that once they are reintroduced into their financial speculation, again we will be the ones that will save them. For these reasons, we will vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 81 members present, 50 votes against 8. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and interrupt the 19th meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed on Monday, 13. Seven. 2020 at 12 p.m.
