ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 53rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Nada Brinovšek, mag. Carmen Furman, Susanna Lepi Šimenko, Franc Kramar, Ljubo Žnidar from 3 p.m., Nick Prebil until 11 p.m. and Brana Golubovic. By the time limit set by the College on the basis of Article 93a(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, no Member or Member has announced for the day of the participation in a meeting outside the meeting of the National Assembly using a remote meeting application. I say hello to everyone who's here! We're moving to seven. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on postal services, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. At its 11th session, on 26 November 2020, the Committee on the Economy considered the draft law as a working body. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Comrade Reich, procedurally?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u2	Yes, I have a procedural proposal and it is linked to the implementation of the meeting of the National Assembly. Yesterday, my fellow Member, Vojko Starovic, could not raise an oral question to the Minister of the Interior, Mr Hojs, because he was absent. The Minister may only be absent for two reasons; whether he is sick or has international obligations. Minister Hojs made a statement to the media, but he did not take the time to attend the National Assembly and to answer Members' questions. I therefore ask that this be addressed at the College of the President of the National Assembly and that a protest note be sent to the Government either in writing or in oral form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, if you have proposals for the College of the President of the National Assembly, I invite you to submit such proposals to the Cabinet two hours before the College, not at the meeting itself. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first word is the letter from the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. The position will be presented by Franz Breznik.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u4	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! On 14 October 2020, the Group of 5 thousand voters and voters submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to Article 88 of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 114 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, for consideration and adoption of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act. As indicated in the proposal paper, the aim of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Postal Service Act is to ensure a consistent transposition of Directive 97/67 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 December 1997 on common rules for the development of the internal market for postal services in the Community and for the improvement of the quality of service. Let us point out that Slovenia has prescribed one of the highest quality of universal postal service in the European Union, since the Post Office of Slovenia must carry at least 95% of mail correspondence in one day, at least 99.5% of mail correspondence in two working days and 100% of mail correspondence in three working days. At the same time, the price of these services is regulated and is among the lowest in the European Union in Slovenia. It is also stated that due to the very high standards for the implementation of the universal postal service, regulated prices and the fact that the classical market for written services is also declining due to the Rural Development Programme for the construction of broadband networks with the aim of digitising the company, in particular in 2007-2015, and this was also allocated to EUR 86.3 million of resources and resources from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, and consequently to the reduction of the use of classical written services. Of course, it is expected that the universal postal service provider will record the net cost as an unjustified financial burden in the future, so it is proposed to amend the Postal Services Act. In addition, it is proposed that the second paragraph of Article 19 be supplemented in order to determine when the net cost of universal service obligations is an unfair burden if the revenue from universal service provision does not fully cover the cost of universal service provision, including the cost of maintaining the postal network. We can also note that, for the first time in 2016, the Slovenian Post Office calculated this cost of EUR 17.4 million, but the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia (AKOS) did not recognise this cost after the examination in accordance with the prescribed methodology. The post office also recalculated the net cost of EUR 32 million for 2017, which was also not met by AKOS. On 13. 12. has issued a decision rejecting the request for payment since, after careful and thorough examination of all relevant circumstances on the basis of the applicable rules, it has not been established that the Postal Service of Slovenia, by implementing the obligation of the universal postal service, generates a net cost as an unfair burden. [[Incomprehensible]] The post office also calculated a net cost of almost EUR 37 million for 2018. The request was also reviewed by AKOS. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are aware of these losses that the Post Office has with universal postal service. We are also aware that we must also prevent the decline and, above all, the closure of rural post offices. We believe that there is more than one solution. As the first solution, there is a change in the strategy for the management of state property, in particular in this direction that the profitability of Post Slovenia is reduced and that Mail Slovenia is recognised as an important institution, especially as an important institution in many remote villages, in rural areas. Last but not least, respected colleagues, Mail does not only carry out package services or universal postal services, the Post Office of Slovenia also has the authority of Banka Slovenije, in the countryside many pensioners can raise money through Post Slovenia, pay bills and so on. I do not think it is possible to expect digitalisation in 2020 or in the coming years. In the SDS Group, we will reject the bill, and we are looking for a solution together in the coalition to reduce the closure of rural businesses, and in particular we are looking for a solution in the State Property Management Strategy in the Republic of Slovenia where Post would be exempted. Mail as an institution must primarily pursue public good and its services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc. Edward Paulich.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u6	Dear President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In recent years there has been much talk about the problem of closing post offices and the decline in demand for universal postal services. We have pointed out several times in the LMŠ Group that maintaining the rural postal network for Slovenia is of great importance, especially in terms of social criteria and providing appropriate infrastructure in the countryside. Even the current exceptional growth in the number of packages does not weigh down the revenues recorded in the Post Office of Slovenia precisely because they provide universal postal services. The negative result, which creates an unsustainable situation in our national post office, has been a good time in the management and also in the Postal Workers Union, and in one voice they call for the country to listen and approach to solving the problem. To this end, the Postal Workers' Union has drawn up a legislative proposal amending and supplementing the Postal Services Act, which provides that the State will financially support the implementation of the universal postal service and thus prevent further closure of post offices and the decline in the quality of universal postal service. The amendment of the law would ensure that compensation for the obligation to provide universal service is granted in accordance with the State aid rules when it constitutes a net cost of undue financial burden. In a good month, the proposed changes supported more than 7,000 voters, who also put the law into parliamentary treatment. To compare, we can make arrangements in other European countries where some countries have already listened to calls and co-finance universal postal services from budgetary resources; again, under European law, there are specific funds for co-financing this service. Users rightly want such a postal service that will maintain the current level of service and maintain the existing network of businesses. We are aware that all technological changes and the rapid development of business digitisation will not be sustainable and the state must maintain a certain measure of classical postal activities and also promote socially responsible transitions to new forms of business, which will still allow access to public services for all citizens regardless of age group or residence. One of the most important roles in maintaining rural settlement is certainly also access to essential local services, i.e. postal services, regardless of how profitable they are. Universal postal services have been declining due to e-substitution and changing user habits for several years and the epidemic has accelerated this trend. In the second wave of the epidemic, the biggest decline is recorded in the field of direct mail and additional measures are expected to further decline in other groups of written consignments. Perhaps now was the time to listen to the bill and approach the problem; but unfortunately we missed the opportunity because the law on the committee did not receive sufficient support.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The word is given by the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Soniboj Knezak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u8	Thank you, President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! There is no parliamentary group in this National Assembly and there are few Members and Members who would not have submitted initiatives and questions in recent years regarding the abolition of post offices. This is not a consequence of the crisis, but a problem that has been emerging for years since the European Directive liberalised the postal services market in 2008. The postal service of Slovenia has thus become a provider of the so-called universal postal service, which imposes the transfer of all small postal shipments at a single price. The Post Office State covers a certain price in the law, taking into account that Slovenian regulations provide for a relatively dense network of postal shops and that trends in postal shipments are moving in the direction of an increasing number of packages and an increasing number of written shipments. Therefore, the post office must perform the postal service at the quality and price determined by the State, in all other cases it is a normal company from which the owner – again a country – expects in particular profit. In such circumstances, it is not surprising that the Post is trying to obtain additional revenue with additional services and to reduce costs also at the expense of reducing the network of post offices and excessive burdens on workers. It's not surprising, but it's sad. The plan Post Slovenia foresees almost half the reduction in the number of post offices. Your Honor, this was all a problem before the outbreak occurred. Member initiatives and questions from all political sides prove that we all have the same goal – to stop the collapse of the business network, to maintain the level of postal service and to ensure that it is paid at a fair price that will enable workers to work and pay. There is no difference here between us, so we would expect to unanimously support the proposal going in this direction, even now that postal workers are particularly burdened by the consequences of the epidemic. With the support of 5 thousand voters, the postal workers' union has drawn up a proposal for amendments to the law that would allow the deficit created by the Post Office to be created by universal postal services to be covered in fact by the compensation fund already placed at the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. The method of calculation has so far prevented actual reimbursement of the price of services provided by law and in the public interest. In the Group of Social Democrats we see this as a suitable measure to improve the situation. Unfortunately, the ruling majority do not see it that way. They forgot their initiatives and questions about closed post offices in their places and cities. They have put themselves on the side of the regulators and officials of the economic ministry, who have been insisting for years that no change is possible; that the Post must carry out everything we impose on it, while covering its own loss and, on top of its owner, that is, the State, providing a substantial profit. It is clear to everyone that this is possible only when businesses are closed and employees are used, which clearly no longer disturbs the rulings, so they rejected the proposal on the Committee. That is why we do not have the opportunity to support the law today, with respect to our fellow Members and colleagues, nor do we have the opportunity to engage in substantive discussions on it. The question of the availability of postal services, employee's rights in the post office and the general business of one of our public companies will therefore have to be postponed again, at the will of the rulings. Let me therefore point out on the ground that in the Group of Social Democrats we support the direction of the proposed amendments to this Act and we will endeavour to regroup this content on the agenda in a short time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mag. Branislav Rajić will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u10	Good morning. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, the proposed amendments to the Postal Services Act cannot be accepted because there are no objective reasons to change the way in which the possible net costs of the universal postal service obligation can be financed. The solutions proposed cannot be supported because of the non-compliance with the prescribed methodology prescribed by the Postal Services Act and the General Act on Accounting Information and the calculation of the net cost of universal postal service obligations. Following the examination of all relevant circumstances, it was not found that the Post of Slovenia by implementing the universal postal service obligation creates a net cost as an unfair financial burden. Slovenia’s post office has already prepared calculations of the net cost of 2016, 2017 and 2018 three times. These calculations ranged from €17.4 million to €36.9 million per year. In accordance with the prescribed methodology, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services (ACOS) has rejected all existing claims for payment of the net cost on the basis of the Postal Service Act and the general act already mentioned. Common sense also finds it difficult to explain the reason why public money would add to the service that some of its services charge at incomprehensible retail rates. At a potential recognised net cost as an unjustified financial burden for the universal postal service provider, we will address a proposal to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to examine various ways of financing the implementation of UPS. In doing so, we believe that it will have to pay particular attention in particular to meeting the reasonable needs of the users of this service and to ensuring their quality. One must hold – users must be provided with a quality universal postal service, as prescribed by law. In the Republic of Slovenia, a specific compensation fund is in line with the European Post Service Directive as a financing mechanism for the net cost of UPS; however, the conditions for its establishment have not been met so far, and therefore not any circumstances and reasons that would require a change in the way in which the possible net costs of the obligation to implement UPS are financed. While in Slovenia, according to other European countries, high quality implementation of UPS is prescribed, modern trends in the postal services market, in addition to moving to e-substitution, promote liberalisation and competition in a way that reduces the scope and regulation of UPS and reduces the burden. In view of the increasingly changing situation in the postal services market, it is necessary to adapt to the simultaneous needs of users. E-mail has significantly reduced the number of mail transfers, and postal business visits are also declining. This is a general trend at European Union level and therefore one of the challenges of UPS operators in all European Union countries is to adapt the network to the changing needs of users. Due to the continuous decline in classical services provided by residents and residents in postal windows, the postal network is becoming less profitable, but it should be stressed that universal postal services to the extent of services and postal network density in Slovenia are comparatively high with other European countries. The scope of UPS in Slovenia has more than halved over the last ten years. By 2022 this volume will decrease by about 20%. In 2007, the Slovenian Post Office carried out 308 million of these services and in 2018 only 148 million more. In this area, however, Slovenia is no exception, as there are similar trends in other European countries, so in the coming years, the Slovenian Post Office will mainly plan new business due to the growing needs of the market for specialised tailored services, taking into account the latest trends in shipping of all kinds and at the same time improving delivery. It is noted that the Post of Slovenia has problems in the most profitable areas, this is in package delivery and urban centres, where today there is also strong global competition; however, the Post of Slovenia must cover the loss due to the provision of universal services while at the same time meeting the requirements of the Slovenian State Holding. In the face of increasingly acute issues of post office closure planning in the SMC, we propose that the Post Office of Slovenia establish contact with the local community and find a solution with it to the fullest extent that takes into account the reasonable needs of users of these services in the local environment, particularly in the rural area. It is necessary to ensure the appropriate level and accessibility of these services also in small and urban remote areas. There are some examples of good practice where the postal service contractor combined the tourist-information function with the post office and contributed even more to the local community with a new offer than the post office itself. However, it is up to the competent authorities to stem the trend of the collapse of the postal business network, while at the same time allowing the adopted solution of Post Slovenia to provide a financial sustainability of the universal postal service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u12	Thank you very much, President. Good-bye, everybody! The current Postal Services Act clearly states: “The Republic of Slovenia shall, in the public interest, provide to all postal users in its entire territory under the same conditions a permanent, regular and smooth operation of the universal service, which may be interrupted only by force majeure or in situations dangerous to the supplier.” Universal postal service is provided by the Post Office of Slovenia, accessibility and price of universal postal service are determined by law. The postal service of Slovenia is obliged to provide this service in both places and at prices that are non-profitable. However, while the State on the one hand undertakes by law to provide public service, on the other hand, its 100 % ownership in the Post is considered to be a capital investment with which it must generate as much profits as possible. With this country Post Slovenia forces, for the first time, to close rural businesses, thereby reducing the accessibility of postal and other services provided by Post for the rural population; for the second time, this Post Slovenia forces the commercialisation of its activities. As a result, post offices turn into small stores offering food, drink, toys and so on, instead of providing postal services. Thirdly, the pressure of the highest return on capital at the high cost of universal postal services means saving on people, which is known on the salaries of workers and workers, saving on employment of new staff and consequently increasing the workload of employees; and writings, in addition to shipping mail, also transporting advertisements and the like. He used to have a letter bag, and today he has a motorcycle that has a front and back case for packages, letters, and commercials. And sometimes this is not enough, although the overall volume of letters sent over the last decade has decreased due to the internet and new technologies. The unsustainable situation has led to workers and employees of Post Slovenia, writers, to prepare a novel on the Postal Services Act and to collect more than 5,000 certified signatures so that they can submit it to the National Assembly. The law proposing that the budget country cover the loss generated by the provision of a universal postal service in the public interest of the State is not proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is not proposed by the management of Post Slovenia, nor by any of the parliamentary parties. It was offered by workers and workers. The collection of signatures was organised by the Postal Workers' Union, which by the nature of the matter should not be concerned about the public interest and the profitability of the operations of Post Slovenia, but about the rights of workers and workers. In Levica, we support changes in the way we finance universal postal services. The current legal regime under which universal postal services should be financed from the so-called Compensation Fund is not operational. The establishment of the fund was decided by the governing policy in 2008, and today this fund is not a problem, nor is it a problem, since the Post Office of Slovenia would be practically the only contributor to this fund because of the share it occupies in the postal service market and would pay itself. Ensuring the appropriate legal basis for co-financing the implementation of the universal postal service, which is in the public interest of the State, is essential if we do not want the Post to create a loss due to the costs of implementing this public service. This is essential so that the Post Office of Slovenia is not under pressure to close down rural businesses after the greatest possible profitability. And this is essential for maintaining jobs in the Post Office of Slovenia, for decent salaries of workers and workers and for working under normal working conditions. The governing policy has rejected the proposal of the law, which they have proposed and have been tortured to collect signatures for it during the epidemic of workers and workers of Post Slovenia, at the Committee's hearing, saying that the Post must adapt to changes in the postal service market and introduce more sophisticated solutions. In this way, public interest has been placed on the market where iron competition laws rule and where the only interest is to forge as much profits as possible. It is a stepmother's relationship, with which the quality and accessibility of universal postal service is deteriorating over a long period of time. In particular, this destroys the Post Office of Slovenia, a company owned by a hundred percent of the country. The ruling policy, which has already concluded its consideration of the law on the committee and has prevented the National Assembly, as the country's highest representative body, from defining itself to the draft law tabled by the signatures of the electorate and electorate, has shown contempt for the people's initiative for the second time in one month. Again, it has shown in whose interest it actually works. Not in the public interest, even less in the interest of workers and workers, but in the interest of private capital, which will continue to serve well at the expense of the smaller competitiveness of Posta Slovenije, due to the burden it entails in the implementation of the universal postal service with which the public interest is exercised. And if you're wondering why packages of delay are coming these days and you have to wait in line in front of rare businesses that are still open, that's one of the reasons for this situation. We could've solved this with this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Michael Prevc will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The draft law on amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act – this is the Postal Workers' Union with 5,000 signatories – explains that the proposed legal solutions represent an adjustment to the rapidly changing situation in the postal services market in order to cover any net costs incurred in the implementation of the universal postal service from the State budget. In the view of the applicant, it is only in this way that a sustainable model of funding for universal postal services could be established, including receipt, guidance, transport and delivery of postal shipments, services recommended and value of postal mail, and the transfer of postal consignments to the blind and visually impaired. The Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia shall issue a decision to the universal postal service provider on the basis of an analysis of the situation or a call for tender. Until 2023, he is a universal postal service provider throughout the territory of Slovenia. Where the obligation to perform a universal service entails net costs and entails an unfair financial burden, the operator shall be entitled to compensation for the provision of a universal postal service. The existing law currently provides that compensation shall be paid from the so-called compensation fund to which all universal postal service providers must contribute. The proposed law points out that the proportion of Post Slovenia within the provision of these services is 85%, with five or six smaller operators. This means that the Slovenian Post Office should pay almost all the funds from which its unfair financial burden should be borne by the Fund itself. This compensation fund has not justified its role to this day, and it is likely that another solution will have to be found here. In Novi Slovenija we are aware that the Slovenian Post Office, which is a 100 % company owned by the country, has recently become increasingly difficult to reach and has been forced to optimise the postal network, which unfortunately means closing non-profit mail, meaning that it no longer follows fully the objectives resulting from the European Directive requiring the maintenance of the rural postal network. Thus, in New Slovenia we wonder whether the proposed changes to the law would mean the end of closing down rural post offices. Unfortunately, the bill doesn't convince us to do that. The drafter cannot clearly identify the financial implications for the state budget, as this depends on the annual calculation of the net cost. Despite the fact that Slovenia’s post office has already prepared net cost calculations three times, ranging from 2016 to 2018, ranging from €17 million to €40 million; however, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services has repeatedly rejected a request for payment of the net cost. This means that, in accordance with the prescribed methodology, under the existing Postal Services Act, it has not been established so far that the Postal Service of Slovenia, by implementing the universal postal service obligation, generates a net cost as an unfair financial burden. Therefore, in Novi Slovenija, we did not support the draft law on the home working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Marko Bandelli will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u16	Your Honor! In Slovenia, the Postal Services Act has been in force for ten years and we have transposed into our legal order the European Directive that opened the postal services market. According to the proposaler, the directive was not properly transposed as it provides that the compensation for the provision of universal postal services shall be paid from the Compensation Fund. Since Slovenia has only one true contractor, they consider that the compensation fund is not the right solution and therefore suggest that the compensation for the provision of universal postal services is covered by the budget. The fact is that the situation in the postal market has changed radically in recent years due to digitisation. This is a general trend at European Union level and therefore one of the challenges of universal postal service providers in all European Union countries is to adapt the network to the changing needs of users. Due to the constant decline in classical postal services, the postal network is becoming less profitable. In the SAB, we believe that Slovenia has responded inappropriately to market changes by closing a number of post offices in rural areas. Despite their closure, we continue to suffer from a decline in the number of mail transfers and the dissatisfaction of users who are not provided by the State with postal services in all areas of the country. The SAB is committed to providing universal postal services throughout the territory, including in rural areas. This is a public service, a service which is in the public interest, which must be provided to all citizens under the same conditions. The closure of post offices in rural areas represents social segregation for the less mobile and older; on the other hand, by maintaining them, they would contribute to rural revitalisation. In view of the fact that the State lays down the conditions under which the service is provided, it is right to do everything in Slovenia to maintain an enviable level of delivery of this service. In the SAB Group, we supported the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Robert Polnar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the proposed amendments and additions to the Postal Services Act, something is disturbing, which at first sight may be less important detail. It cannot be overlooked that the relationship between participants in an economic society, even though it is one hundred percent state-owned, is being tried to resolve in Parliament. In the Desus Group, we believe that this is the whole matter of the relationship between Post Slovenia and the Agency for Communications Networks and Services. It is essentially in non-compliance with the methodology for calculating the net cost of the provision of universal postal services and on this basis the calculated unfair financial burden. At the same time, we must not ignore the fact that the Post is a capital company owned by a hundred percent of the state, which is subject to the provisions of the Company Act, so this is not a public undertaking, but a company which also provides public services. The most important question raised in the examination of the provisions of the draft law is whether the regulation of the way in which an unfair financial burden is paid from the State budget can mean the cessation of the closure of individual postal units. The answer is clear. This cannot be confirmed. So we're talking about universal postal service. Services are difficult to conceptualise because of their nature, mainly due to procedurality, by facilities that their operators, as well as by customers, and by all those who come in contact with them. Their characteristics are reflected in problems at all stages of their management processes and day-to-day implementation. In particular, delivery of letters is a type of service that is at the end of its life cycle and is increasingly needed by people using electronic communications. Proposalers of the novel need to be attached and recognised that the Republic of Slovenia has one of the highest quality in the implementation of the universal postal service, even though the price for the provision of these services is among the lowest in the European Union. Only Romania and Malta have lower standard letter prices. At the Committee on the Economy's meeting, we learned that the revenues from universal postal services account for 36% of the total revenue generated by the company in each business year. Mail as a universal postal service provider may submit an application or calculation, but according to law, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services is the only one responsible for determining the unfair financial burden. The calculation shall be made on the basis of the General Act on Accounting Information and the calculation of the net cost of universal postal service obligations. For 2019 the calculation has not yet been made and the Post Office has done so for the financial year 2018. At the time, the total revenue was EUR 234 million and the revenue from the universal postal service was EUR 84 million and EUR 300,000. The post office calculated the net cost as an unfair financial burden of EUR 36 million and EUR 900 000, 43.8 % of the total revenue from the management of the universal postal service. The calculation of the net cost of the obligation to perform this service shall be carried out in such a way as to distinguish between the net cost of the operator operating under the service obligation and the net cost of the same operator as it would have if it had operated without the obligation of that service. The postal service of Slovenia does not keep separate accounting records. Is it possible, then, to draw up an appropriate business simulation? The answer is in the palm of your hand — no. The debate on the proposed legislative changes was not about the net cost of unfair financial burden, but about the non-closure and closure of post offices. In the Desus Group, we believe that any payment of an unfair financial burden from the country's budget will not be able to stop the trend that has come into effect. The scope of classical postal business is decreasing because users meet their needs in different ways. We voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the law at the meeting of the mother's working body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u20	Nice greetings to all present! The primary activity of Post Slovenia is the provision of universal postal service. They also carry out other postal and courier services, cash services and the sale of goods. Mail could provide a number of other services and, according to our assessment, there are still many opportunities for development to achieve a better business outcome. Slovenian postal services should also contribute to national development in demographically threatened areas. This effect is not achieved by abolishing post offices. Nor does it seem logical for us to move mail from the city location where the post office is owned to locations in the industrial zone and to pay high rents there. People from smaller places are extremely dissatisfied because postal services are withdrawing from their places. Slovenian postal services should contribute to the satisfaction of citizens as users of services. This effect is not achieved through long waiting lines in front of post offices, with expensive postal and payment services. Each letter recommended costs almost 2 euros. Fees for the payment of bills are among the more expensive in the country. If the customer wants to pay the bill, he has to answer irrelevant questions, such as where they were born. Slovenia's post office should contribute to enhancing the competitiveness and business efficiency of companies. Such an effect is not achieved through legal proposals whereby the management of the company through one Postal Slovenia syndicate wants additional funds from the State. I do not imagine that any other postal or courier service provider, such as DHL, UPS or GSL, would come up with a bill to be given 37 million euros by the state. But not in one amount, they would every year. Slovenia's post office is supposed to be an economic company. The management of the company is primarily responsible for the operation of each company. I am very interested in why in 2018 there was a good EUR 10 million and in 2019 there were only EUR 5 million. One more thing is very important and must not be overheard. The postal service of Slovenia is one of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that the post office should take care of as much profit as possible, from which the State would then draw dividends for its needs. Our country is indeed a phenomenon in terms of the management of its assets, as it has more costs than the benefits of its investments. After 30 years of the change in the economic system, all companies owned by the Republic of Slovenia will also have to finally realize that every economic company has to operate on profits. However, management is responsible for the business outcome. If someone receives a monthly salary of EUR 10 000, he must also show something. The leadership of each company must have a vision and strategy to achieve the best possible business results. If they don't have it, then the leadership has to be replaced. Fast business review Post Slovenia raises a number of questions. Who knows what lies behind the millions of amounts under the heading “other costs” or “other expenses”. Members of the Supervisory Board of Post Slovenia receive relative annual amounts of up to EUR 20 000; the question is whether the impact of their work is also appropriate. The post office should increase the number of postmen and the number of employees in the mailboxes, and so much too much is employed in offices where there is no effect. Slovenian Post Offices certainly have a lot of reserves in reducing costs in the area of payment of external legal, communication and marketing services The companies owned in the past have already entered into disputed sponsorship contracts and distributed incomprehensible donations. The question is what will be the impact of the recent acquisition of Intereuropa logistics company, for which the Post Office has deducted almost €29 million. So they don't lack funds. In the Slovenian National Party, we see no reason why the State should finance any economic company.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on the defence of children and young people with sensitive and weekly difficulties and disorders in the cultivation and education of children in the context of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Simoni Kustec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I am very pleased to present to you today a whole new law on the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders in education and education. The regulation so far is still – and I hope that I can speak in the past – not only outdated but full of inconsistencies and inconsistencies. We had several laws, not one single one, which in one place would comprehensively regulate this very difficult, very sensitive subject and issue. There have been many years of reflection on a uniform and inter-resort-coordinated regime. The new law before you follows the demands and needs of all involved, especially today's time and comprehensive problem management. First of all, what is crucial and most important is the law that is written for the benefit of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioral disorders. The contents of today’s law are such that we can remember the story of Fran Milkinska Bird without a nest, which was first published in 1917. It is accompanied by the fates of three boys, the fates of three abandoned children, the fates of the writer on his skin, and through his jurisprudence he also experienced and solved them. Fate that needs the response and help of all of us, professions and, above all, countries. And fates that also need a serious and responsible institutional response. Today, there are nine institutions in Slovenia for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs and children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural disorders. Most of the time we call these institutions as educational institutions and they are within the competence of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Children and young people living in these institutions represent one of the most vulnerable groups of young people and society in general. Therefore, they need to be treated in a very special way. These are children who cannot live at home because of threats within their own family; children who are at risk for others; and children and adolescents who have already committed crimes. These children are placed in institutions on the basis of a decision of the Court, on the basis of the Family Code or the Penal Code, and they also play an active role in the installation of social work centres. In addition to the implementation of the educational and educational programme, the work of educational institutions is also linked to social protection, justice, health and police as a result of everything described. As you can see, it is a very complex, very difficult issue that touches on education, health, social, justice. This is precisely why more than 80 consultations and meetings with different groups, representatives I have already pointed out and discussed and weighed solutions that are now harmonised and placed in the law before you, were carried out at the time of the drafting of the law. The new system law regulates the functioning of educational institutions, in particular the three key substantive aid sets and tasks that these institutions will carry out. First, in the form of a preventive activity to be carried out through so-called mobile centres or preventive services to provide assistance to children and adolescents and their families, kindergartens, schools when they are still visiting within the family space. Other content of assistance through the implementation of various forms and ways of working with children and adolescents, when they are already institutionally installed in professional centres, will also be called new institutions; and third form, the provision of support after discharge from professional centres, when children or adolescents return either to their homes or to special youth apartments. Many fundamental principles define this new law, positive principles. And above all, what matters is that the law will help these children to grow up to be independent, confident and active citizens. That is why, honourable Members, I believe and I know that you will unitedly support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u23	The draft law was considered by the Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth as a parent labour force. I give the floor to President Ivi Dimic for the presentation of the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u24	Your Honor, the Secretary-General! The Committee on Education, Science, Sport and Youth is held at its 13th session. 12. 2020 addressed the proposal for a law on the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional, behavioural and educational disabilities submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration. Amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 12, 17, 18, 22, 27, 35, 37, 38, 39 and 42 were tabled within the time limit. In its introduction, the representative said that the proposal for a law systematically regulates the functioning of educational institutions, which will from now on act as professional centres, in order to provide comprehensive assistance to children with emotional and behavioural problems and disruptions in a particular area. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the draft law in terms of its compliance with the Constitution, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. Her representative said that the amendments tabled by the coalition had taken account of certain comments made by the Legal and Legislative Services, while some important amendments did not take into account. It thus drew attention to the subordination and redundancy contained in Article 87, Article 120(2), Article 153(3). It explained that the law must not contain any matter subject to legal regulation or that the law must not contain details falling within the law. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport presented by their representative at the meeting of the Committee. The Commission supports the proposed amendments and the purpose of the bill following the findings of the pilot project and identifies the establishment of a network of professional centres that will provide comprehensive assistance to children and young people with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders themselves or in cooperation with other professional centres. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee welcomed the proposal for a law and considered that such legislation was necessary and it was therefore appropriate to adopt it as soon as possible. They explained that the proposal introduces three important solutions, from providing preventive activities in the form of assistance to children and adolescents involved in regular and school education and their families; through working with children and young people set up in professional centres, with flexible forms of work and integrated treatment; to supporting children and adolescents who are dismissed from institutional accommodation. The Committee has adopted amendments to the coalition to all the above-mentioned articles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on the articles of the bill and adopted them. Pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the text of the amended draft law is an integral part of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarca and Aljaž Kovacič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! A child with mental and behavioral disorders is becoming increasingly saddened by the difficulty of time. However, the age at which these disorders occur is decreasing. However, the problem that makes treatment more difficult for these children is that we lack experts who are qualified to deal with these disorders and that things are rather messy in this area. The working group within the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia has already pointed out in 2010 that the current system needs to be redesigned or upgraded in certain areas, namely, when installing children and adolescents, sightseeing, free places in institutions, reception of children or adolescents with complex problems, in cooperation with external institutions in the local environment, in obtaining documentation for monitoring and advancement of the child, in the absence of work with the family and in preparing the family for the return of the child to the environment, discharge or transfer of the child. In the Marjan Sarca Group, we agree with the establishment of a network of professional centres, which, alone or in cooperation with other professional centres, will provide faster integrated assistance to children and young people with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders such as they have so far. These centres will also provide professional support to kindergartens and schools working with children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems, as well as to parents, legal representatives or foster parents. Preventive activities will be carried out in the form of offering and implementing assistance to children involved in kindergartens and schools. With children and adolescents who will be installed in them, they will carry out different forms and methods of work. We also support the necessity of setting up preventive services or mobile teams, which will be established progressively according to needs. Reflecting on the uniform regulation of this area has taken too long, and it is now high time for this area to be settled. To this end, we support the proposal of the Marjan Šarca Group, which contains solutions that benefit these children, provides them with early assistance and continuity of assistance through the implementation of preventive activities. It exposes the individualisation of assistance for each individual child and adolescent and follows the guidelines for the integrated treatment of the child in the form of teamwork and the cooperation of professional workers and experts in other fields.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Marko Koprivc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House. The law before us today has been preparing for years. It was mainly prepared due to warnings from professionals on the ground, the Ombudsman's comments and, above all, the results of the analyses that showed the need for changes in this area. These are children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems, either installed in so - called educational institutions or treated by institutions. Today there are nine of these institutions, and the children who are installed in them are about 400. After the new ones, these institutions will transform into professional centres, which will in an integrated way, with all the help they need and also with the provision of therapy, together with various experts, do their utmost to help children as effectively as possible. It is children who cannot live at home because of threats within their own family, children who are at risk for others, and children and adolescents who have committed crimes. This law therefore regulates a very sensitive area. We are probably all united that the most important thing is that our children are healthy and content. Everything we do, we need to do for the best of our children. It is important that children’s problems be identified as soon as possible, that is, early enough to help their children in the right time and to be given adequate assistance and education. Therefore, preventive function and early detection of problems and disturbances are all more important. We welcome the statutory establishment of a preventive service or mobile teams on the ground, which, in view of the problems of each child or youth, will draw up a plan to overcome these problems; and children, including kindergartens, schools and their parents, will also be provided with adequate assistance. Unfortunately, behavioural and emotional problems and mental disorders in Slovenia are still too much taboo, they are too stigmatized, so many times we ask for help too late. We therefore welcome the solution that these professional centres with smaller units in the child's local environment, so that we hope that this will also reduce the possibility of stigmatising these children in particular. It will also be extremely important to assist you after your leave from professional centres when children or adolescents return home. In recent years, authorities have reported that there have been increasing numbers of children and adolescents who have been diagnosed with multiple mental disorders. Significantly many of them have severe and severe forms of disturbances of attention, hyperactivity, autistic spectrum disturbances, mood disorders and often secondary associated behavioural and emotional disorders. A number of them have experience of abuse of psychoactive substances. Sexual and psychological abuse, as well as various traumatic experiences leading to post-traumatic stress disorders and personality disorders are not uncommon among them. Respected and respected mental health in Slovenia should be placed higher on our priority scale, as we have neglected it for too long. It is a worrying fact that the latest data show that the mental health of young people in Slovenia, as well as elsewhere in the world, is deteriorating. We therefore expect the Social Democrats from the competent ministries to prepare as soon as possible any necessary legal changes in the field of mental health. And at the end of the bill's proposal, we also call for the future to take into account as many comments as possible from the professional public on the ground and, in the end, the warnings from the Legislative and Legal Service. The Social Democrats will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by mag. Branislav Rajić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister! The proposal for a law that we are considering deals comprehensively with the field of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders in education and education. The children and adolescents under consideration need professional assistance that cannot be received from the environment, so the state must provide them with assistance, in cooperation with many other resources. The bill follows that. The solutions are divided into three strands: to provide preventive activities in the form of assistance to children involved in regular schooling and schooling, to implement different forms and methods of working with children and adolescents installed in professional centres, and to offer support after leave from institutional accommodation. In order to ensure adequate treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders, the organisation of existing educational institutions needs to be changed and made possible to bring institutions closer to the needs of children and young people and their families through their forms of work; not vice versa. The proposal for a law takes this principle into account, so we strongly support the new regime that will establish a network of professional centres and thus provide assistance to all children and adolescents in Slovenia who are in need of such assistance. After a new professional centre, it should take care of all children and adolescents in the form of teamwork and cooperation between professional professionals, social work centres, courts, parents and health organisations, as appropriate, either alone or in cooperation with other professional centres in the same area. Special attention in the bill is also paid to young people after the expiry of the measure. Those who cannot return to their home environment are allowed to stay in a youth apartment, while others can continue to be in contact with their educators. The bill includes a number of good practices that have developed and applied for a number of years but have not been binding and have been organised in different ways. These practices are now systematically regulated in law for the first time, and all proposed solutions have also been piloted in various forms through the project to address children with emotional and behavioural disorders in educational institutions. When considering the draft law on the Home Committee, the representatives of the Ministry and some educational institutions have shown very clearly why we need this law and what difficulties children and young people who urgently need help face, but this environment cannot always offer them due to a lack of regulatory arrangements. Children and adolescents who, because of their problems and often aggressive behavior, threatened themselves and others were extremely hurt; and kindergartens and schools were unable to provide them with the help they needed. Therefore, the proposed regime, which includes the responsibility of all departments that affect the lives of children and adolescents under consideration, is necessary. In the past, the institutions of any child or youth were unwilling to accept, and social work centres were then looking for accommodation throughout Slovenia. Such practices should not be permitted. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Modern Centre Party, with congratulations to the Minister and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport for the Law, which, after the integrity of addressing this difficult problem, places us at the top of the world. Slovenian families and children who were not destined for carefree childhood, youth and parenthood were given a reliable ally in their country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u32	President, thank you for your word. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Today we confirm a law whose declaration purpose is good and to confirm. The aim is to regulate the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and educational and educational disorders. The law provides for the establishment of professional centres to provide assistance to children with emotional, behavioural and other training disorders. Unfortunately, the purpose of the law is also the only good thing we can recognize in the marriage proposal, and we have indeed, I must say, made an effort. If Levica is usually critical to the content of the proposed legislation and if critical malice is usually directed towards the wrong purposes of the laws proposed by the Government, this is not the case today. On the entire line, the lawmaker and the law were laid down at the level of form. This is what the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly said, and I quote: "More important constitutional and legal considerations are not eliminated by amendments." I must say, Madam Minister, you have been repeatedly warned that there has been a violation in your law of the constitutional separation between the laws and regulations. You have been clearly told that by means of a bill in such a form you establish an unconstitutional situation where one branch of government assumes the function of another branch of government. Only because of your negligence is now determined at the level of the law who will perform alcoholic beverages on these children in educational homes, although it is obvious that this is about determining how to enforce a legislative decision, which is the rule of law. For all nebulosis and negligence, if I may say so, which you have shown in the preparation of this regulation, there will be another one in the eyes, namely, the provision of Article 19(2) of the bill, where it is stipulated that the professional staff of the centre are those who are basically accompanying the child for medical examinations. As you have been warned many times, here you strongly deviate from the provisions of the Family Code adopted by the National Assembly. These provisions state that a parent who has not been restricted or deprived of parental care must not be placed in another position when the care of his child occurs. It's an excessive intervention into parental care that you haven't eliminated with the amendments. Let us also mention the use of a vocabulary that does not belong to legislative matter at all, and the fact that children can also be penalized financially, which is absurd for socially disadvantaged and otherwise affected children. You haven't responded to any of the exposed eyewitnesses from the Ministry. It has also demonstrated on the Education Committee one incompetence and perhaps even indifferentity to the problems addressed by the proposal for a law. But something else is essential, the way this law is drawn up, its form and, ultimately, the whole legislative process, which corresponds exactly to the way this government operates. Why? Because you are not interested in the law being written in a coherent and consistent manner because you are not interested in the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service, because you are not interested in warning the opposition and the parliamentary procedure is only an obstacle to you and because you are not prepared to put even the slightest effort into the legislative process. This government has problems with parliamentary democracy and is therefore not interested in the work of the National Assembly. This government has problems with the legal system, so it has been speeded up by intervention legislation, which has also been found by the Slovenian Constitutional Court. This government also has problems with the people, so it despises the media and prohibits referendums. One thousand and one problem of this government, ironically, can be brought to light by one simple and increasingly obvious fact; that the problem of the government is itself. In Levica, we will confirm the law of good purpose. Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that you are touching 400 children in educational homes with emotional and behavioural problems; which I am also reminding you in this House, or Aljaž Kovacič or many other Members, is that in regular primary schools you have 509 children with emotional and behavioural problems that you do not provide them with a legally prescribed temporary escort; and you have 227 autistics who do not provide them with a companion. When you swore your oath as Minister, you said you'd respect the Constitution. Madam Minister, you are in violation of Article 57 of the Constitution, you are violating the rights of children who have been given guidance by decisions. And since we are warning you about all of this and you are practically not acting, I ask you whether you are aware that you no longer respect the Constitution. Do you think you're still fit and operationally capable of ministering? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Iva Dimic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u34	Your Honor! Each child must be able to develop his or her abilities to the greatest extent possible. Knowledge is a great value, so education must be accessible to all and must enable progress, greater equality, equal opportunities and a better life. However, it is a very important part of the education process, and it needs to be given more and more attention. In New Slovenia we support the development of a harmonious man capable of and prepared for life in society, and for a healthy and happy personal life. Today's law regulates the operation of nine educational institutions operating in Slovenia in the field of education and education of children and adolescents with special needs, for children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural disabilities. Children are placed by decision of the court on the basis of the Family Code or the Penal Code, with the active role of the Centre for Social Work. Professional centres to provide comprehensive assistance to children with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders will operate in each of the four designated areas in Slovenia. They will carry out the following tasks, as the first, preventive activities in the form of offering and implementing assistance to children involved in regular schools and kindergartens; the implementation of various forms and methods of working with children and adolescents installed in professional centres; and the provision of support after discharge from institutional accommodation. For children and adolescents with only emotional and behavioural problems, preventive activities are envisaged to avoid any accommodation. It is advice to kindergartens, schools, advice to parents, foster parents and legal representatives. Comprehensive treatment and assistance to children with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders in a given area is of paramount importance for the upbringing, development of children's abilities, creativity and responsible behaviour in society. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The positions of the SAB Group will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! Quote Bridget Miller: “The behavior of children depends on their feelings. Therefore, we should pay more attention to their feelings than we should to their behaviour.” I am pleased that the law before us, in the direction of adapting the institution to the child and not the other way around, is in the direction of following the needs of children and young people with emotional and behavioural problems by systematically regulating the functioning of educational institutions and centres in the field of prevention, as well as in the field of curative and later support after discharge from individual forms of assistance or accommodation. This approach has also been recommended by the Ombudsman and the Advocate of the principle of equality, as we welcome in the SAB. The Act changes and significantly improves the approach to children with behavioural problems and their families. Each child experiences changes and forms of education and responds differently. This difference in children’s responses to the environment and vice versa, an inadequate response to the child’s environment, is one of the most common causes of behavioural and emotional disorders. Experts find that behavioral and personality disorders are very different and uneven. Each disorder has its own set of circumstances and causes for development and development. This is also the reason why the behaviour and feelings of children are detected and recognized only in institutionalised forms of education and education. The problem of placing children in institutions was highlighted by the working group within the Community of Centres for Social Work of Slovenia in 2010. A qualitative survey on the development of educational institutions was then carried out in 2015, demonstrating the need to renovate the network of institutions and create a clearer design based on the needs of young people. Followed by the project Comprehensive treatment of children with emotional and behavioural disorders in educational institutions, which tested new methods and forms of work in housing and education groups. The project ended last year with similar findings as previous research – the area of education and education of children and adolescents with emotional disabilities must be closer to their needs. The law, which we will discuss below, is the realisation of these projects. This is an important step forward for the youth group and for all those who deal with their problems and challenges daily. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Jurij Lep. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! According to surveys conducted in comparable European countries, behavioural disorder is present in 7-10% of children and adolescents. There is no record of this in Slovenia, and this message escapes. The next worrying fact is that behavioural and emotional problems in our society are still problems that we do not want to speak openly about because we are afraid of stigmatization. Therefore, I can conclude that percentages of people – not just children and adolescents, but the whole population – are much higher than the officially recorded records of professional treatment. Mental health experts also say that problems are increasing and that behavioral and emotional disorders are now significantly different and more intense than they were decades ago. Allow me to quote a few sentences from the publication prepared on the subject of mental health by the National Institute for Public Health: “The spiritual health of children and adolescents is crucial for the future of every nation and the success of every society.” This is a complex area that includes strengthening the protection and maintenance of good mental health, as well as the desigmation and prevention of mental problems and disorders and their treatment and rehabilitation of patients. In the Desus Group, we are aware and agree that children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and disorders are an extremely vulnerable group. Therefore, we owe them special care, effective treatment and the best possible assistance. The current arrangements for dealing with children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems are outdated, uncoordinated, fragmented and inconsistent. In our parliamentary group, we are optimistic and argue that the problems faced by the competent services are overwhelming, as has been shown by numerous research and analysis and pilot projects carried out. The fruit of the cooperation of all the competent services and the supervisory ministry is a bill that we will gladly confirm in the Desus Group, because we are convinced that it solves the key problems and challenges that have been an obstacle to the provision of effective assistance to all young people who have not come from the right path on their own fault. The purpose of the new law is to allow timely, integrated and continuous treatment of children and adolescents with a view to their equal integration into normal life, by means of professional centres and other stakeholders involved in their lives under official responsibility, and all those who are primary guardians are said to be parents, guardians, foster parents, responsible for their normal and healthy development. The new law establishes a comprehensive treatment of children and adolescents in the framework of their education and education through three key areas of operation of professional centres: providing preventive activities in the form of offering and implementing assistance to children involved in regular schooling and schooling; secondly, implementing different forms and methods of work with children and adolescents placed in professional centres; and thirdly, offering support after home leave or other accommodation. In our Group of Members, we agree that greater emphasis should be placed on the multidisciplinary and individual treatment of an individual and that adequate assistance must be provided regardless of the type or content of the work with him; or whatever the individual is involved in. In order to be visible, intensive cooperation with parents is also essential, and the latter must also be offered assistance and support from well-trained experts. Members of our parliamentary group welcome the proposed solution in the law, as it represents an important reorganisation of the current way of work. We expect that all the obstacles so far will be overcome and that work with children and adolescents will take place to the greatest extent possible optimized and quality, thus ensuring that these disadvantaged children and adolescents get their new opportunity in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u40	Nice greetings to all present, especially to the secretary of the department! The bill before us follows a number of research and findings of the pilot project. Analysis has shown that social work centres, as well as professional workers in institutions, can cope with many problems. Social work centres face the difficulty of putting children in institutions and professionals in institutions have pointed out that when installed they do not have sufficient data on the child, his family and the island’s health. This is of key importance as professionals can draw up an individualised programme and an appropriate evaluation on the basis of these data. Children with emotional and behavioural disorders have a number of psychosocial problems that appear to be behavioral, emotional or learning problems. There is also a strong autoaggressive or heteroaggressive behavior of individuals. It is therefore essential that forms of education are adapted to individual children or adolescents. A single education programme is not enough. Each child or adolescent is an individual, who has various deficits, different perceptions of the environment, knowledge, and different reactions to the situation. Many children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems come from socially weak environments where they face violence, alcohol, drugs, and so on. Such children or adolescents are particularly vulnerable, unable to return to a safe environment or should not return there at all. Children must be protected, not returned to a dangerous environment. The objective should therefore not be to return to the home environment as soon as possible. First of all, he needs to be helped to participate properly in society, to find employment and so on. That is why we support youth housing. Those who are involved in institutions due to learning or family problems and are therefore particularly vulnerable must not, in any way, be set up together with those who, following a court decision, are given an educational measure to be submitted to the institution. The bill therefore provides for a single systemic solution to the integrated treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems. The establishment of a so-called network of professional centres is planned. These will enable children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural disorders to be helped more quickly than they have been given so far. They will offer preventive assistance and support to parents, kindergartens and schools, carry out flexible forms of work with children and adolescents who have been installed, and will also take care of them after the end of treatment. A key novelty is the establishment of a preventive service or so-called mobile teams. Prevention is crucial. Older ones, such as children, are more involved in the environment and thus reduce the chances of success. We will, of course, support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Mojca Škrnjar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u42	The proposal for a law on the treatment of children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems and problems in education and education presents a systemic solution to a range of problems, schools and families; and, above all, to help children and adolescents with emotional and behavioural problems. Institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs for children with emotional and behavioural disabilities are under the responsibility of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport. Their activities are also involved in the areas of social protection, justice and the specificities of the population, as well as health and police. The accommodation procedure shall be initiated in accordance with the law governing family relations or with the law governing the treatment of juvenile offenders. Children and adolescents shall be placed on the basis of a court decision, by way of a provisional order, by carrying out an emergency seizure by the Centre for Social Work, by deciding whether to take the child or to decide whether to place the child in a institution due to psychosocial problems or in accordance with the Penal Code and the Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Sanctions. For many years, individuals and institutions have pointed to problems in addressing and solving the problems of these children and adolescents. In 2015, according to the applicant, qualitative research was carried out on the subject of Slovenian development of educational institutions. It has highlighted substantive problems, including the fact that professionals in educational institutions face a number of difficulties in installing and treating children and adolescents when they do not have enough information about the child. In Slovenia, the network is not systematically connected, it is limited to professional government organisations, institutions for education and education, psychiatric departments, advisory centres, part of social work centres. The State establishes institutions for the education and education of children and adolescents with special needs for children with emotional and behavioural disabilities. In Slovenia there are nine such institutions that implement a training programme for children and adolescents. These are children who are at risk in the family, children who are at risk, and children and adolescents who are juvenile delinquents. The bill offers system regulation and four regional professional centres will be established. One of these will work alone and the other three will work in cooperation with other professional centres. The establishment and establishment of an expert centre will be governed by the competent minister. The centres are structured in a way that effectively, quickly and competently places a child or a youth by decision or decision of the court in which the most appropriate group of residences and education is based, among other things following the principle of the greatest benefit of the child or youth. A professional centre coordinating the cooperation of professional centres in a given area shall be responsible for deploying a child or adolescent to an expert centre within the area according to the type of assistance the child or adolescent needs. This will simplify the practice of accommodation and the professional and fair treatment of these children and adolescents. These professional centres will also provide professional support to kindergartens and schools working with children with these problems. Each of the four professional centres provides for a mobile team to respond to the request of kindergartens and schools. The law also sets out how to stay with treatment and in-depth monitoring of children and adolescents. Thus, the practice of living and education will be uniform. It is also stated that time can be spent in a professional centre, not in time, legally determined and limited to the number of years to be given to students involved in secondary school programmes. The participation of the relevant health services and the Education Institute is envisaged. The Centre for Social Work or the Court, which were the initiators of inclusion in the professional centre, check and monitor the stay and work of the child and youth in the centre itself. The law defines the return of a child or youth to the normal rhythm of life, the return of a home and further education, and also foresees a possible adjustment period that a youth may spend in a youth apartment. The proposer included in the production of the text a professional and also held a public debate and examined and answered in detail the proposals and questions raised, obtained the opinion of the Information Officer and the Ombudsman. We therefore support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u43	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Thursday 17th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 12. 2020, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to six. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for implementing consumer protection legislation under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, Simon Zajc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u44	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members, good afternoon! The proposed law is needed in order to change the European Union's legal order in the field of consumer protection. It follows from the material to the proposal for a law that the main objective pursued by the proposal for a law is to adapt the internal legislation with the provisions of Regulation (EU) 2017/2394 and repeal Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006. 2006/2004. The Regulation is a procedural regulation applicable to infringements of 27 consumer protection directives and regulations, which are contained in various laws and regulations in the Slovenian legal order. This Regulation lays down the conditions for the cooperation and mutual coordination of national competent authorities with a view to the smooth functioning of the internal market and improving the protection of the economic interests of consumers. Infringements on the basis of which individual competent authorities will have to act are divided into infringements within the European Union, into widespread infringements where consumers are affected in at least two Member States, and into widespread infringements with the scope of the European Union where consumers are affected in at least two thirds of the population of the European Union. The main solutions to the draft law are proposed with a view to adapting national legislation to the provisions of the Regulation, namely, the mechanisms for the participation of competent authorities in cross-border dispute resolution; the powers of the competent authorities have been amended; the competent authorities and the single supervisory body for cross-border infringements are appointed; the conditions and means for effective and effective cooperation and coordination between competent authorities in cross-border infringements and the international coordination of competent authorities and the European Commission with a view to smooth functioning of the internal market and improved protection of the economic interests of consumers. And penalties shall be laid down in the event of infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. The single connecting body is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology and the competent authorities are the Agency for Communications Networks and Services of the Republic of Slovenia, the Bank of Slovenia, the Infrastructure Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Civil Aviation, the Public Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Medicines and Medical Devices, the Market Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. Organisations that can inform the competent authorities of alleged infringements are the European Consumer Centre, NGOs established to protect consumer rights and carry out individual professional and research tasks in the field of consumer protection, the Chamber of Commerce and Crafts and other organisations and associations operating in the field related to the content of the infringement. The powers of the competent authorities are subject to a more detailed regulation of the powers laid down in the Regulation which the competent authorities do not yet have under our legislation and need to be re-organized in law in the Slovenian legal order. Most of the minimum investigative and enforcement powers provided for in the Regulation are already regulated in the Republic of Slovenia under the Inspection Control Act and therefore only the missing powers of the competent authorities are laid down in the draft law. These new powers, however, are the power to purchase goods or services, including covert identity, where appropriate, and to adopt measures related to websites. These are to order the company to remove the content; to order the provider of roaming services to remove, disable or restrict access to the web interface; to order the provider of exclusive transfer services to access the web interface or to direct display of the infringement warning on the web interface; to order the registries or domain registries, in appropriate cases, to temporarily delete the domain name system and to register a fully defined domain name, to enable the competent authority; to order the registrar or domain registrars to delete a fully defined domain name. Powers related to websites are extreme measures if there is no other effective option to achieve a cessation or prohibition of infringement and to prevent the risk of serious damage to the collective interests of consumers. The removal of content may be ordered by the authorised person of the competent authority. Other measures related to websites shall, however, be decided by the Administrative Court, on the proposal of the authorised person of the competent authority, on the basis of an infringement of the constitutional right to communication and the freedom of communication, the restriction of internet freedom, e-mail and freedom of expression. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States from 17 January 2020. The implementation of the Regulation ensures a greater degree of harmonisation of the actions of the competent authorities, which allow for more effective and effective cooperation between them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy as the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Magi. Branislav Rajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on the Economy is at its 11th session. 11. 2020 as a parent working body considered the Proposal for a Law implementing Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the implementation of consumer protection legislation in second reading, EPA 1381-VIII. In addition to the proposal for a law, the Committee was presented with the following material: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology on the comments of the Legislative and Legal Service and the opinion of the Commission of the State Economic, Commercial, Tourism and Finance Council. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the amendments to the draft law were tabled by the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus, as referred to in Article 8. The drafter presented the main objectives and main solutions to the law. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service pointed out that the comments to Articles 6 and 7 were explained in an explanation by the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology for its comments. With regard to the comments to Article 8, an amendment was submitted to the SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus parliamentary groups. The representative of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance took the view of the Commission, which supports the proposal of the law. In the course of the discussion, the drafter answered the question of the appropriate amount of fines and the extent of the necessary resources for the functioning of institutions or organisations, so that the exact amount of funds cannot yet be determined, as it is not known how many individual procedures will be carried out and how much staff will be involved in these dispute resolution and control procedures. However, the amount of fines applied was fixed by the applicant in the act submitted. The Committee considered the amendment of SDS, SMC, NSI and Desus to Article 8 and adopted it. The Committee then voted in accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on the articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the adoption of the amendment, the text of the amended law, which includes the adoption of the amendment, is prepared. The amended bill is an integral part of the Committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u47	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The word shall be given by the Group of Social Democrats. Mag. Meira Hot, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! One of the fundamental areas governed by European Union rules is consumer rights. A single area of trade with free movement of goods and services would only be difficult to operate without uniform rules. The rules in this area are therefore not entirely left to the Member States, but are governed by regulations that have direct effect. States or their bodies shall be primarily responsible for their implementation. Despite the single European framework for the protection of consumer rights, research and practice show that uniform rules are not sufficiently respected. A particularly problematic area is the area of cross-border online purchases where a very large proportion of bidders do not meet the required conditions. The level of infringements of established rules in this area exceeds one third. In order for the rules to be effective, they must be implemented and sanctions for infringements must also be enforced. The task of the Member States is to designate supervisory authorities and empower them to perform supervisory functions. This is also the fundamental purpose of this bill, whose content we support in the Group of Social Democrats. However, we would like to point out that in recent years the practice of enacting laws on the implementation of regulations has been implemented, rather than adequately complementing the sectoral rules. This would also be possible in this case, as the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and the Association of Slovenian Consumers have pointed out. We agree with this approach as it would not increase the number of regulations and reduce their transparency. It is therefore surprising that the rulings, who have promised to reduce the number of rules on the principle of repealing the two laws for each newly adopted one, therefore deviate from their objectives. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Gregor Perič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u50	Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, good afternoon! This year, a new European Regulation on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation has entered into force, bringing better consumer protection. This Regulation ensures uniform respect for the legislation and protection of consumer rights within the European Union. The new rules will improve cooperation between national consumer protection authorities and the European Commission and help to tackle poor consumer practices more effectively. The enforcement of legislation will also increase the protection of consumers who cross-borderly purchase services and goods in and outside the online environment, reducing the risk of harm that consumers may suffer when purchasing goods abroad if they are not provided with this or when they do not receive all necessary information. The new regulation will also help to strengthen the competence of national consumer authorities, detect irregularities and implement measures to address them. Under the new rules, the Commission will also make it easier to alert national authorities and coordinate their actions to address the bad practices affecting most consumers in the European Union. Through a new online information exchange tool, consumer centres, consumers and trade organisations will be able to officially point out new market irregularities. The proposed law is therefore needed to change the European Union's legal order in the field of consumer protection. The new regulation of the European Union also requires Slovenia to appoint competent authorities to implement consumer protection legislation. These authorities are supposed to be the Market Inspectorate, the Infrastructure Inspectorate, the Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries Inspectorate, the Agency for Communications Networks and Services, the Agency for Civil Aviation, the Agency for Medicines and Medical Devices, the Bank of Slovenia and the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Maritime Affairs. These authorities will also acquire new powers through the regulation to protect consumers; these are: apparent purchases of goods or services, including by secret identity, thereby checking financial flows to track unfair traders and online fraud; and actions related to websites. For example, an undertaking may be required to withdraw, cover or correct information containing fraud or fraud from a website or social media. In addition, the competent authorities will be able to impose fines and impose effective proportionate and dissuasive penalties in the event of infringements of the provisions of the Regulation. In this way, the new regime will strengthen consumer protection mainly online and increase transparency in online shopping. Consumers will therefore find it more difficult to be misled by different products presented as identical. Traders who continue to cheat will face high penalties. In the SMC Group, we are aware that the epidemic has affected many areas of consumer life, whether it is online fraud or cancelled travel arrangements. Therefore, in the SMC, we believe that there is a need to ensure, at national and European level, that we will also fight against consumer fraud in the future, together with the consumer protection cooperation network and in dialogue with platforms and all stakeholders. We are also on the consumer side when it comes to ensuring the protection of the rights of consumers or passengers in Slovenia and the European Union in the event of cancellation. In view of the many market developments and acute economic conditions that have lasted for several months, we are convinced that an analysis of the long-term impact of the epidemic should be prepared. The epidemic has also triggered a number of problems affecting the situation of consumers and will not be able to solve them without cooperation. It also showed that a digital transition and an appropriate adjustment to consumer policy are needed; this must be at the heart of the economic recovery plan. We are therefore convinced that in Slovenia we need effective consumer protection, which is a prerequisite for strengthening consumer confidence. Therefore, we will also unanimously support the proposal for a law implementing the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group Nova Slovenija – Christian Democrats will be presented by Mihael Prevc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! The purpose of the law implementing Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation is to adapt domestic legislation to decisions of the European Union Regulation and to adopt provisions implementing the provision. This is the establishment of a single market for integration and the competent authorities for the implementation of consumer protection legislation and fines for offences. The single liaison body responsible for implementing the Regulation is the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology, which acts as a single national contact point for coordination or coordination of activities and regular reporting to the European Commission. The authorities responsible for implementing the Regulation shall carry out inspections. In doing so, they shall have the right to make a virtual purchase of goods or services, including, where appropriate, a covert identity, and to apply measures related to websites. If an entity dealing with websites does not implement a decision to cease the infringement, the authorised person of the competent authority may order the undertaking to remove the content. If it does not remove it, the Administrative Court may, on a proposal from the competent authority, order an intervention to the website or the content of the publication. In Nova Slovenija we are convinced that the security concerns of Slovenian citizens and consumers must remain one of the key priorities. Slovenia must also take care of the protection of its citizens as equal consumers in the European Union by means of its official, certified institutions. The fundamental principle of the European Union is respect for law. Slovenia must always draw attention to the inadmissibility of avoiding compliance with legal standards. The power of the European Union's joint action from the internal market, the Schengen area, the common agricultural policy, consumer protection and the environment for the protection of human rights is conditioned by respect for equal rights for all. As the bill follows this, the Members of New Slovenia will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Robert Polnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen! Consumers are becoming an increasingly important member of modern market society. Consumer rights, however, are becoming one of the important indications of modern democracy. The European Union is trying to establish a single single market for consumers by means of harmonised legislation. Consumer confidence is becoming some kind of new social cement of the European Union; with the power of their choice and the control role of consumer organisations, consumers gain a stronger influence in the economic system. One of the most important economic truths speaks of the eternal acceptance of the leading role of the consumer. The consumer is the king, the micro-economists say, when they explain the basis of consumer choice. The economy of demand is the source of macroeconomics, which also triumphs in this crisis. Most businesses and management decisions are considered to have to be adapted to consumers. In the Desus Group, we assess that a proposal for a law aimed at harmonising the behaviour of national authorities in the field of consumer protection is necessary. We also note that it is mainly about adapting national legislation to the provisions of the European Union Regulation. Among the provisions of the law, we point out those whom we consider to be a step in the right direction. These are the identification of a single interconnection body, the unification of the powers to manage procedures, the identification of organisations that may inform of alleged infringements, the establishment of competent authorities for the implementation of the Regulation, the establishment of mechanisms for the participation of competent authorities in cross-border dispute resolution, and new powers such as the apparent purchase of goods or services, the power to purchase goods or services, if necessary, including by secret identity, and the adoption of actions related to websites. With consistent enforcement, these provisions will contribute to greater legal certainty for consumers, faster procedures and reduction of administrative barriers. The expected result is also a reduction in the number of unfair business practices and more severe penalties. The Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia reports that in the last three months there has been at least one online purchase, that is to say, awarded or purchased a product or service online, 52% of people aged 16 to 74, more than 800 thousand. This is compared to 2019 when such users were 45%, which is a seven percent increase. The increased number of purchases in Slovenia and beyond the borders also increases the risks associated with various frauds, faults in goods and other problems. Without the participation of stakeholders in the consumer chain and consumer rights authorities, such risks are difficult or, most often, impossible to reduce and manage. In addition, the various legislations of the Member States of the European Union, their protectionist attitude and well-known administrative and bureaucratic obstacles make it impossible to resolve these problems. The law therefore also regulates sanctions for infringements in the digital environment, i.e. online sales of goods and services. An entity may be ordered to remove the content, disable or restrict access to the web interface, determine the explicit display of the infringement warning on the web interface, the destination of the temporary deletion and so on. Consumers are often victims of various kinds of fraud and unfair business practices. In doing so, it cannot be overlooked that the most common targets for this type of conduct are people with a slightly modest level of knowledge of the use of information technologies. In the Desus Group, we supported the proposal of the law at the parent body meeting. We will also make a vote in the framework of the plenary session of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Franz Breznik. Here you go. Excuse me, Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party for the time being. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of Economy, distinguished Secretary of State! The proposal for a law and Regulation 2017/2394 (EU) ensures uniform respect for the legislation and protection of consumer rights within the European Union. The enforcement of legislation increases the protection of consumers who cross-borderly purchase services and goods in and outside the online environment, reducing the risk of harm that consumers could suffer when purchasing goods abroad if they are not provided with this or when they do not receive all the necessary information to make it happen. The current state arrangements for the implementation of consumer law in the European Union in a cross-border context have not been sufficient. For the successful trans-European cross-border cooperation of public authorities in the implementation of legislation, it is therefore essential that companies that do not meet the requirements avoid taking advantage of gaps and territorial and other restrictions on the capacity of individual Member States to implement them. This has been done through the alert mechanism and the mutual assistance mechanism, which complements the set of minimum powers that national authorities need for effective and legally justified cross-border cooperation. A mechanism has also been set up to eliminate unfair practices in more than two countries, with Member States working together with the European Commission to address the issue of common interest. The main solutions to the law are proposed with a view to adapting national legislation to the provisions of Regulation 2017/2394; namely, control mechanisms for competent authorities in cross-border dispute resolution; changes in the powers of competent authorities and uniform powers to manage the control procedure; the appointment of competent authorities of a single liaison body to exercise control in cross-border infringements, including in the case of infringements in the digital environment; the establishment of their powers; effective and effective cooperation and coordination between competent authorities in cross-border infringements, including violations in the digital environment; cooperation and international coordination between competent authorities and the European Commission with a view to ensuring the smooth functioning of the internal market and improving the protection of the economic interests of consumers; and, in particular, the establishment of sanctions in the event of infringements of decisions. Let me say that we will support the law in the Slovenian Democratic Party. As information, let me also say that we have drafted an amendment in the coalition to correct some opinions, including the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. The proposal for a law implementing Regulation (EU) of the European Parliament and of the Council on cooperation between national authorities responsible for the enforcement of consumer protection legislation will be supported by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Thursday, 17 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to four. At the end of the day, that is, on the other hand, a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the tonnage tax law. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary, Ministry of Finance mag. Kristina Stably. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. Nicely greeted! The bill you will now consider complements the Tonage Tax Act. The Tonage Tax Act introduces an alternative form of tax base for the payment of corporate income taxes, in the form of a flat rate. It therefore constitutes State aid for a certain segment of taxpayers. Companies operating on ships in international navigation may thus choose whether to pay a tax on profits on the basis of tax revenue and expenditure shall comply with the accounting rules or flat-rate on the basis of the net tonnage of the ship. Recognition and promotion of the importance of the maritime transport sector is in the interest of the European Union and its Member States. Maritime transport is also important for Slovenia. This importance was also recognised by the National Assembly, which adopted in 2006 the Resolution on Transport Policy of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the position was taken to ensure better conditions for maritime development and consequently an increase in the number of Slovenian seafarers. This will be done by applying the tonnage tax, as conditions for a competitive appearance on the world market for Slovenian taxpayers will be created, i.e. vessels and seafarers. As has already been pointed out in the introduction, the Tonage Tax Act is a state aid which must be in line with the applicable rules in this area, which is the applicable decision of the European Commission by which Slovenia was extended the scheme for the next ten years. The existing tonnage tax scheme expired on 31 December 2018 and Slovenia, or on its behalf, the Ministry of Finance, which is the holder of this scheme, has acceded to its extension. The European Commission extended the scheme for the next ten-year period until 31 December 2028. In doing so, Slovenia has undertaken to amend or supplement the existing tonnage tax law in order to ensure that the incomes of maritime transport activities are separated from those of the basic activity and income derived from the provision of ancillary maritime transport activities, in order to ensure that the treatment of dividends under the Tonage Tax Act is equal to that of the Member States of the European Union under the law governing the taxation of legal persons' incomes and that the treatment of the Member States of the European Economic Area is equivalent to that of the Member States of the European Union. This amendment further aligns the revenues from the ship's technical management services and the management of the ship's crew with the Commission Communication on the direction of State aid to ship management companies. That Commission Communication was adopted in 2009 and could therefore not be taken into account in the original tonnage tax law. In view of all the above, the Government proposes to support the proposal of the law before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Finance as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Robert Polnar, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! At its 28th meeting, on 1 December this year, the Finance Committee considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Law submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The amendments to the bill were not tabled. In the supplementary explanation, the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance explained the objectives and solutions of the bill and said that it was necessary to amend the law since the State aid scheme had expired and the European Commission approved its extension until 31 December 2028. She also said that the introduction of the Tonage Tax Act was also linked to the recognition of the importance of maritime activity in Slovenia as an economic sector. It also provided further clarifications on the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service. The representative of the Legislative and Legal Service said that the law with comparable solutions had already been in the legislative process, but the law had not been adopted. The content of the bill is to comply with the decision of the European Commission to extend the State aid scheme. The comments of the service concerned, in particular, the relationship between the individual solutions proposed and the solutions already in force, in particular in terms of clarity and certainty of the legal regime. Various opinions were presented in the debate, as some members of the draft law do not support them because they are two taxpayers who are companies registered in tax havens. They thought it was private and not public interest. Questions have been raised regarding lobbyist contacts in the preparation of the bill itself and its amendments, as well as the issue of tax enforcement. These questions were addressed to the Government to prepare written answers. The government gave a written reply on 3 December. They also raised the issue of the possible veto of the State Council on a proposal for a law. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, the Committee on Finance proposes that the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonage Tax Act be adopted in the proposed text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u61	Thank you very much. This brings us to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, she gets the word of Mrs Monika Gregorčič to present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u62	Dear Members and Members, distinguished Secretary of State! Today, for the second time in a period of one year, we are discussing the government's amendment to the Tonage Tax Act. Its key objective is to bring that tonnage tax in line with the European Commission decision extending the State aid scheme for maritime transport in the form of a tonnage tax to a new decade from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2028. The amendments, if adopted, will apply to the calculation of the tax for the tax period starting on 1 January 2021. And why is it important for Slovenia to retain this tax or to comply with this State aid scheme? If this law were not adopted, Slovenia will be the only maritime country in the European Union that would not apply such a scheme or tax. This would result in the loss of our maritime industry's important competitive capabilities. The current shipowners would no longer be interested in the management of ships in Slovenia and in the registration of ships under the domestic flag, while foreign ships would not be included under the Slovenian flag in general. In addition, regardless of the primary tax nature of the law, this law facilitates the employment of Slovenian seafarers on these ships. As a result, this means preserving jobs and maritime knowledge. In the SMC, we have had a number of concerns in dealing with the previous novel. After further clarifications, we also supported the law in re-decision, but unfortunately it did not receive sufficient support. However, some of our early warnings are still valid today. In particular, it is a delay in the timely implementation of the approved scheme, since the law or tax on tonnage without an approved scheme of the European Union makes no sense at all. Even more so, even possible financial sanctions against the European Union are at stake without legal implementation due to possible illegal state aid. Indeed, this novelty brings substantively comparable solutions to those who were rejected in the first attempt, but the differences in Articles 14 and 15 of the Law are key. Article 14 contains a solution whereby, when it comes to a connected person with a shipper, the shipowner must also provide a traineeship position for seafarers of traineeships. This followed the expert public argument that regulation should have a positive impact on maritime education and be stimulating for later seafaring jobs. Article 15 provides for the validity and application of the Law on Tax Accounts from 1 January 2021 onwards, which means that the contested retroactivity is no longer applicable for 2019 and 2020. Finally, let me mention that at the Committee on Finance's meeting there was also a problem of tax control over the implementation of the law and the fact that both taxpayers who have applied this tax or this scheme so far have been taxable. We are aware of these issues, but we note that there are two completely separate issues. This law regulates only a specific tonnage tax and a related scheme approved by the European Union. The calculation, the assessment and recovery of the tax are subject to each individual tax procedure. Of course, we expect the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia to be able to recover these tax obligations effectively. This amendment to the law has nothing to do with this. All of the above in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre leads us to support this proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Primož Siter will be next in line to present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello, colleagues and colleagues! The government novel of the Tonage Tax Act is intended to allow for the further development of Slovenian shipowners. In fact, it is a novelty that will allow for additional tax exemptions for foreign corporations registered in tax havens that have been on Furs's list of taxpayers for years. Slovenia already adopted the Tonage Tax Act 2008 which introduced tax exemptions for maritime transport operators. Shipowners can thus apply an alternative way of calculating the tax on profits. The tax is paid in a flat rate much lower than the official profit tax, which was then 25% and today 19%. It is supposed to be a subsidy for the expansion and development of shipbuilding in Slovenia, but in fact it is a tax gift for Puerto Rican General Navigation. Since she was privatized by the other Yangsze government, it's a German private company. The tonnage tax scheme includes two general shipping subsidiaries — Genshipping Corporation and Lucija Shipping. The first is registered in Liberia and the second is registered in the Marshall Islands. In practice, therefore, it is a matter of subsidising foreign private capital flowing into tax havens. As a result of the tonnage tax scheme, Slovenia lost 24 million budget revenues between 2008 and 2018. As early as 2017, Cerar’s government then tried to write off tax liabilities worth around EUR 8 billion to a German shipowner, worth EUR 6.4 million. At that time, the amendment to the Tonage Tax Act was finally dropped due to opposition from the Left. He was also against the SDS. The new novelty, which would allow for the continued use of tax aid until 2028 by the General Sailing of Peter Döhl, was also attempted in December 2019 by the Sharčev government. The National Assembly adopted the amendment in December 2019 and then, following a re-vote by the Council of State in January 2020, the amendment fell. The novels were also voted against by the then opposition NSI and SDS. The current amendment to the Tonage Tax Act, which was tabled by the Janšev government in the parliamentary procedure, is essentially the same as the new Sharčev government. Therefore, the coalition parties SDS and NSI are prepared to use wind power to support a novel that they clearly opposed less than a year ago. Novels General voyages that do not pay taxes – both Genshipping Corporation and Lucija Shipping are part of Furs' tax list – allow for additional use of tax aid from the tonnage tax system by operating through related companies. According to the new state aid, companies that do not own any ship will also receive State aid. In addition, the novelty allows the taxpayer to transfer the activities to new companies without prior settlement of the tax liability. As also pointed out by the Association for the Conservation of Slovenian Shipbuilding and the Development of Slovenian Maritime, the Government of the Foreign Private Owner, which sold out Slovenian fleets and put the Slovenian shipowner among the taxpayers, is rewarding for the destruction of the Slovenian shipbuilding. Therefore, in Levika we will also oppose the novels this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u65	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our positions. The SAB Group is next and will present the position of the Magi on its behalf. Andrei Reich, if he's around. Since I don't see him in the gym, we're gonna have to skip him. Mr Robert Polnar is next in the Chamber and will present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam Vice President. There's nothing I can't say that impresses me that you've noticed me. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The Tonage Tax Act was adopted for the first time in June 2007. State aid entered into force on the basis of the notification for a period of ten years, from 1 January 2008, when the European Commission first recognised such aid. The tax on tonnage is, in fact, an alternative form of determining the tax base for paying corporate tax. Legal persons operating on ships in international navigation may choose whether to pay a flat-rate tax under the tonnage tax scheme in relation to the net tonnage of the ship and the number of days of operation of the ship; or whether to pay a tax on the income of legal persons based on the determination of the tax revenue and expenditure in accordance with accounting standards. Other Member States of the European Union also use state aid in the form of tonnage tax. There is therefore less tax revenue in the budgets compared to corporate income tax, with the aim of promoting and developing maritime transport. Rejection of the law would mean that the legal regime that does not comply with the European Union acquis or the Community Guidelines on State aid will remain in force. State aid which does not comply with such a legal order must be recovered. Amendments to the Tonage Tax Act are needed for reasons of consistency with the regulation of state aid rules and the European Guidelines on State aid for maritime transport and the implementation is set for the future from 1 January 2021. At the moment, the taxpayers are liable to a ton of tax two, and the net impact on the revenue of the state budget is also projected to be very modest, only EUR 50,000 per year. In the Desus Group we estimate that state aid should be extended for a new ten-year period, as this is in favour of maintaining the status of Slovenia as a maritime state. One of the priorities of the Tonage Tax Act is to enable the employment of seafarers from Slovenia, where the planned targets have not been achieved in the past period. Therefore, the conditions for entry into the tonnage tax system for shipowners are supplemented by the provision that the activity of ship management is carried out from the Republic of Slovenia and that 51 % of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia or of nationals of another Member State of the European Union are employed for the purposes of carrying out activities on land or ships. Countries also promote such employment through other elements of tax policy, such as reducing contributions and income. At the same time, it should be stressed that tax policy is only part of the policies that govern this area. In Slovenia, provision is made in Article 42 of the Income Act, which provides that the taxable base of the income achieved by the taxable person in connection with the operation of a long-distance commercial ship which sails the high seas, provided that the contract of employment provides that he is on board for a minimum period of 6 months or is absent from Slovenia for at least 6 months in the tax year, only 50 % of the income is included on board the ship. It is important to distinguish between revenues from maritime transport activities in international navigation on income derived from basic activities and on income derived from maritime ancillary activities. The proposal is logical because it is necessary to distinguish which income is eligible for favourable tax treatment under the tonnage tax system and which income must be taxed in the same way as that of all other companies in Slovenia. The outstanding tax liabilities of the debtors liable for the tonnage tax are within the competence and responsibility of the Financial Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, which must be recovered without exception. The adoption of the law will provide a formal legal framework that can enable the operation of existing ships in Slovenia and possibly attract new business entities from this activity. In the Desus Group we will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tonnage Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The next is the SNS Group, the position will be presented by Mr Jani Ivanuš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u68	Nice greetings again to all present, especially the Secretary of State! The tonnage tax, according to our assessment, is not achieving its purpose, so we have no reason to support any amendment to the Tonnage Tax Act. We rejected one already a year ago and from January 2020 to December 2020 nothing has changed in the field of Slovenian shipping or maritime affairs; therefore, we will not change our position in the Slovenian National Party. After thirteen years we can say that the tax on tonnage has no positive impact on the conservation and development of the Slovenian maritime sector. The government clearly stated in the bill that the tax on tonnage is essentially a tax relief for two foreign companies which do not have to pay corporate income tax. Slovenian companies pay 19% of the tax – not to be mistaken, I am talking about the income of legal persons – and we are allowing foreign companies tax relief. That's not fair at all. As a result of the tonnage tax, which means a significant reduction in tax liabilities, Slovenia voluntarily gave up 24 million euros in the past decade. In view of the current fiscal situation, these millions today would be in dire need of blood. If any shipping company were seriously engaged in shipping, it is likely that it would not operate in a country whose coast is only 43 km. In the Slovenian National Party, we would be happy to support the tax burden on Slovenian entrepreneurs, but we will not support tax advantages for foreign companies, which are even among taxpayers or non-payers. Our country gives them a lot of tax advantages, and these falsites would not even be able to pay this heavily reduced tax. The only measure supported in the Slovenian National Party in relation to tonnage tax is the abolition of this unnecessary and harmful tax. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The next Mr Jure Ferrjan will present the position of the SDS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u70	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! In 1991 Slovenia adopted the Resolution on the Maritime Direction of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines us as a maritime state. In accordance with the said resolution and the Community Guidelines on State aid for maritime transport, adopted by the European Commission in 2004, Slovenia introduced a tonnage tax in 2007. This tax introduced an alternative form of establishing the tax base for corporate income tax in the form of a flat rate for a particular segment of corporate tax taxpayers. Its purpose was and is to promote the competitiveness of European shipping, to preserve jobs and standards in the field of maritime transport, while preserving the unity of the European Union's internal market. The Tonage Tax Act also provides for a State aid scheme to be notified to the European Commission. The approved scheme under the original 2007 law was valid for a period of ten years. The law itself was then further amended and supplemented in 2009 to comply with the European Community decision. Taxpayers paid a million Euros per tonne tax between 2008 and 2019 on the basis of the Tonage Tax Act. If they were subject to an obligation under the Law on corporate income tax, their obligation would amount to EUR 24.5 million during the same period. The last entry into the State aid scheme under that Act was possible until 31 December 2018 and the Republic of Slovenia requested the European Commission in 2017 to extend the scheme which approved the extension, which means that the current scheme applies until 31 December 2028. The decision of the European Commission covers certain substantive areas differently than provided for in the applicable regulation of the Tonnage Tax Act. These areas should therefore be regulated in such a way as to comply with the European Union Decision or the applicable rules on State aid in maritime transport. This was also the condition of the European Commission when the state aid scheme was approved. The draft law therefore provides for the completion of the treatment of revenues from international shipping operations in order to separate revenues from maritime transport activities from those derived from the conduct of the basic maritime transport activity and the income derived from the operation of the maritime ancillary activity. The debtor must also maintain a separate bookkeeping for the income mentioned. The bill then provides that the operation of ships, which is one of the conditions for entry into the tonnage tax system, shall also be subject to the full management of the ship, which means the provision of technical management and management of the crew for the same ship. Equally, the tax treatment of income received from dividends under the Tonage Tax Act with the law governing the taxation of the income of legal persons is provided that the taxable person must increase the tax base, by an amount equal to 5 % of the amount of income thus received, in accordance with the law governing the corporate income tax. Equal treatment shall be given to the Member States of the European Union and the European Economic Area under the conditions relating to the ship and the flag requirements of the ship. The draft law provides for the application of tax accounts from 1 January 2021 onward, which means that the tax periods for 2019 and 2020 are not regulated. The proposal for a law is in line with the acquis of the European Union and the Community Guidelines on State aid and the Communication from the Commission on the direction of State aid to ship management companies. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Tonnage Tax Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Ms Andreja Zabret is next, will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a novel, which we are considering, is almost identical to the draft law that we considered at the time of the government of Marjan Sarca and was first adopted and then vetoed by the Council of State and was rejected by 41 votes in favour and 44 against in full on 29 January this year in the National Assembly. At that time, two parties to the current coalition, SDS and NSI voted against it, and it is interesting to hear how they will vote this time. We therefore decide to extend the selective measure, which treats the taxpayers operating with ships in international navigation more positively. Since such a measure constitutes State aid, it must be notified or extended to the European Commission after the period for which such aid was granted. The new law is intended to continue to create conditions that will have a positive impact on the operation of shipowners in Slovenia, and to maintain a competitive business environment for maritime activity, according to the proposaler's assurances. Your Honor! As a maritime state, by means of the Maritime Guidance Resolution, we have committed ourselves to ensuring the development of the maritime economy. Therefore, in 2007, like many other countries, we introduced such a tax to ensure better conditions for maritime development and a competitive performance on the global market. The last entry into the State aid scheme was possible until 31 December 2018. Slovenia therefore requested the European Commission in 2017 to extend the scheme, but the procedure has shown that some of the solutions still need to be amended. The European Commission has approved a request for the extension of the tonnage tax scheme for the next ten-year period of Slovenia, which means that we must now adopt the amendments as set out in the bill. We are aware of the fact that this is a system law that follows a broader political and economic objective of preserving Slovenia's status as a maritime state. That is why we will not oppose him this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u73	Thank you very much. As a last resort, the SD Group's position will be presented by the mag. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Tonage tax is a specific form of taxation of economic activity which, in the field of shipping or shipping, allows for a different way of determining the tax base than in nature in other legal persons. The tax base in this case is the combined tonnage of ships operated by the ship carrier. Tonage tax rules must be in line with European rules and framework for state aid. This is a highly competitive activity in which formal relocation activities and seats are very common with a view to reducing tax liability. Slovenia, as a maritime state, must, of course, regulate this area. Regrettably, there are few legal entities affected by this arrangement. Only one ship company that had been privatised years ago would be affected by the changes. If the rules used to say that a shipowner must maintain the tonnage, then the total carrying capacity of the ships it manages would, as some attempts had already been made, have deviated from this rule. This would greatly reduce the taxpayer's tax liability. On a tax basis, they would not have taken into account that the principle of conservation of tonnage was not respected. The behaviour of the tax oasis for Slovenia would not be appropriate, especially since it would not create a benefit for both public finances and jobs. Since this bill is widely believed to contain unjustifiable tax exemptions, we do not favour its acceptance in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendment has been adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law and since the amendments to the final provision have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will be held on Thursday in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on cable devices for the carriage of persons. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the bill, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Aleš Mihelič, who has just arrived and I invite him to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u76	Good morning, honourable Members, honourable Members! In 2003, the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons was adopted, which was subsequently amended and supplemented in 2013 and 2014 in a work regulating the decommissioning and limitation of property rights for the purposes of the construction of cableways and skis. The Law of 2003 and the Rules of Procedure then transposed the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on cableway installations for the transport of persons. This Directive repealed and replaced Regulation (EU) 2016/424 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2016 on cableway installations and repealing the Directive in 2016. With amendments and additions to the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons, we now propose: the deletion of the provisions of the law directly applicable under the Regulation, the transfer of the powers to determine the conformity assessment bodies with MGRT to MZI, the abolition of the requirement for the appointment of a deputy manager and certain other amendments. In particular, it is important here that we now allow the subsidisation of maintenance and operation to be ensured by both the State and the local communities. To this end, we anticipate a million EUR 700 000 that the country will be able to use to operate and maintain cableways. In 2019 more than 2 million 400 thousand passengers were transported in spite of the adverse conditions for the operation of cable and ski facilities and more than 16 million 156 thousand transports. The Law-Legal Service gave an opinion on the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons. We have taken these comments into account and have also drawn up amendments to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, to which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has given its consent. The amendments concerned mainly nomotechnical corrections, additions to the content of the Article governing the co-financing of operations in that part relating to the fulfilment of the conditions for the operator and additions to the co-financing under the basic conditions to be met by the investor. The proposed amendment therefore introduces the possibility that local communities that are allowed to do so, but we do not impose a direct debt on them, we are essentially allowing the co-financing of such activities, which will have a significant impact on the quality of cableway transport as well as on the development of tourism and the economy. At the same time, in the process of demobilization, we delete a number of provisions that have been laid down directly by the regulation itself so far. We're simplifying certain procedures. In fact, the law has been updated to allow for an equal level of governance and maintenance, but it will also allow co-financing, which was not an option now. So much for a little while. Of course, I am available for questions and answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Bojan Podkrodsk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u78	Madam Vice President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Summary of the report to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons at Second reading, transmitted by the Government to the National Assembly. The Committee on Infrastructure, Environment and Space is at its 23rd session. 12. 2020 as a parent labour body considered the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for consideration following a regular procedure. On behalf of the applicant, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Aleš Mihelič, pointed out that the draft law proposed: the deletion of the provisions of the law directly applicable under Regulation (EU) 2016/424 on cableway installations, the transfer of the power to issue decisions establishing conformity assessment bodies from the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology to the Ministry of Infrastructure, the abolition of the requirement for the appointment of a deputy manager of operation, the possibility of carrying out a partial technical review of cableway installations and the modification of the period of validity of licences for the operation of cableway installations. The bill allows the head of the operation of ski lifts with a maximum of two low-water tractors to carry out the tasks of the tow machine, as well as the legal basis for co-financing the maintenance, operation and construction of cableways by the State or the municipality. He also pointed out that the amendment to Article 19 provided for the co-financing of the maintenance and operation of cableway installations, for which the Ministry of Infrastructure would provide €1.7 million each year, in accordance with the financial plan. In the debate, the main debate focused on Article 13 of the bill amending Article 19 of the current law. After discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition groups and then voted on and adopted all the articles of the bill together. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The first one gets the word, Mr Michael Prevc. It will present the position of the NSI Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Once again, welcome everyone in the hall! The main objective of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons is to supplement or recast the existing law, which is thus in line with the amended acquis of the European Union in the field of cableway installations. At the same time, it also changes certain solutions in a law in which the European Union regulation is without prejudice, but at that time they have become obsolete or proved to be inadequate or unnecessary and therefore need to be amended. In Novi Slovenija we particularly welcome the reduction of administrative burdens for cable operators by eliminating the obligation to appoint a deputy ski operator with a maximum of two low-water tractors, where the operation manager can take over the tow machine. It also introduces the possibility of carrying out a partial technical examination of the cableway device, allowing for the examination of only the part of the cableway device which was the reason for the technical inspection. These changes certainly reduce the cost of managing cable devices. One of the key innovations is the introduction of a mechanism in Article 13 of the bill, through which the State or municipalities will be able to co-finance the costs of operating, maintaining and building cableway installations with a view to ensuring their safe and smooth operation. Indirectly, this proposal seeks to ensure greater competitiveness of tourist sites with the cable system or to help strengthen their development potential, as the current concept of financing such cableway devices is not sufficient to cover all costs, which can result in the loss of the cable system. The Community of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Municipality of Cerklje in Gorenjska expressed concerns about Article 13 of the law in the work which provides that municipalities may co-finance the operation, maintenance and construction of cableway installations. They warn that there is a fear that some cable operators will require financial assistance from the municipalities. In New Slovenia, we are convinced that the proposed legal solution does not in any way constitute an additional financial obligation of the municipalities, but gives municipalities only a legal basis that allows them to co-finance the costs of operating, maintaining or building cableway installations if they decide on the basis of their priorities and each municipal budget. In particular, in Nova Slovenija we welcome the proposal of the Ministry of Infrastructure to offer financial assistance from the state budget to cover at least part of the costs incurred, regardless of the number of operating days of cableway installations. The assessment is that up to €1.7 million from the state budget should be provided each year for this purpose. At the Ministry of Infrastructure, they are also aware that the construction of cable devices is in line with the law in the public interest; the cable activity also produces multiple effects in many other areas. Members of New Slovenia will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Andrej Reich will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u82	Dear Secretary of State, honourable President, fellow Members and fellow Members. Amendments to the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons are necessary in order to amend the rules of the European Union in this field. More specifically, this is a Regulation of the European Union 2016/424, which amends the scope of the requirements for the manufacture and placing on the market and the entry into service of cableway installations, subsystems and their safety components, the scope of their compliance management and market surveillance in relation to these products. The proposal therefore regulates the compliance of subsystems and safety components, reduces the administrative burden for cable operator operators and introduces the possibility of partial technical review. Decisions on inspection and transitional decisions shall also be supplemented. As an important and positive solution in the SAB, we assess the introduction of the possibility of co-financing facilities, maintenance and construction of cable devices by the Republic of Slovenia or local communities. In doing so, it should be stressed that it is only an opportunity and not an obligation to finance. Such co-financing will be adjusted by the municipalities depending on their interest or financial capacity. For this purpose, the Ministry of Infrastructure will provide €1.7 million each year under the Ministry's financial plan. This will also contribute to the development of tourist sites with cableway systems. Slovenia behaves with a winter sports tradition that attracts all lovers of winter sports. The larger ski centres even organize competitions at the highest level known all over the world. That is why we need to upgrade and maintain not only the cable devices, but the entire ski infrastructure. In many cases, cable devices do not only serve skiing tourism but are used throughout the year for various purposes. The importance of this sector for Slovenian tourism is also evident from the fact that 2.4 million passengers were transported by cable devices in 2019 and more than 16 million transports were carried out. At this point, I would also like to stress that transport with gondolas and swings is part of public transport. We have already legalized free cross-border passenger transport for pensioners over the age of 65 and war veterans; and so we also wanted to arrange for urban passenger transport. In the long run, we want all public passenger transport to be free of charge for the entire population. In the SAB Group, we will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next is the Desus Group of Members, but I do not see any Members in the Chamber. We are moving on to Mr Dusan Šiška, who will present the position of the SNS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u84	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! The new law has touched on a pressing problem, since our cable drivers have been engaged in debt, repayment of loans for years, so any change is more than welcome. For several years we have been witnessing green winters, which means fewer skiers, sold tickets and visitors. The investments of cableways have multiple effects on our currently highly undernourished economy. We must not neglect spending – from overnight stays, souvenir shops, restaurants, swimming pools, to ski schools – which is the very operation of cable devices. Let him invest in winter and summer season for the purpose of hiking, cycling, and foreigners will admire our mountain beauties. The primary task of cableways is the transport of persons for the purpose of sport and recreation. However, cableways could also provide transport connections to more difficult tourist areas, or to supply goods to mountain tourist centres, mountain huts and high mountain farms. It seems to us that transport carried out in closed cabins and already being carried out at least during summer and winter time is expected to be more co-financed by operation and maintenance. An example of successful operation is the Municipality of Ljubljana, which has invested in the construction of the cableway system and now manages and maintains it. I am talking about climbing the Ljubljana Castle, which is also very visited. All these years, many Slovenians and foreigners climbed the Ljubljana Castle in December and watched the holiday decorated Ljubljana. A few comments came from the municipalities which were disturbed by the wording of Article 13 of the bill. They wondered whether the law really imposed only on them the possibility and not the duty of co-financing. The amended and updated regulation is also based on the principle of security and therefore the new rules and solutions are intended to ensure a high level of safety so that there will be no death and other serious injuries, as usual every year. It is right that things are flawless, professionally-technically reviewed and periodically controlled. It is likely that €1.7 million will have to be provided from the state budget, where co-financing can be adjusted by reason of interest so far. Co-financing costs will, in particular, encourage smaller skis that depend on or operate natural snow by non-profit organisations prior to the permanent closure of the cableway installations. The operation of these devices is also of great importance to the local population. In the event of a calm health situation, we can think in the direction that those who have not yet taken advantage of tourist vouchers, vouchers, these can also be cashed for ski tickets, ski schools and other benefits. Such a gesture would keep our citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at home, in Slovenian ski resorts, instead of skiing in Italy, Austria, France and others for example. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The position of the SDS Group will be presented by Mr Ljubo Žnidar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on cableway installations for the transport of persons is primarily coordinated with the applicable European legislation or its regulation governing the area of cableways. The first part of the law regulates safety, technical elements. It is also regulated by a variety of simplifications, and today it has been heard that the management of smaller cableways, especially those of small cableways with low water ropes, where the head of operation is removed. This head of operations will be able to replace the machinery of this cableway. The second part of the law regulates the possibility, that is to say that legal basis is given on a legal basis, co-financing by both the state and the local communities. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are very well aware that Slovenian cable drivers will not be able to survive in the future only from winter or ski tourism. In particular, guidance will be needed on the summer season, which lasts most of the year. This reorientation of cableway tourism will also cover increased co-financing investments, higher investments, and higher costs. This is why this legal basis, which is given to both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Slovenian municipalities, is very welcome that all the funds invested are actually formally regulated and stand, regardless of the ownership of the municipalities or the non-proprietary of the municipalities. That is to say, where there is no condition that the municipality is owner or co-owner of the cableway device, the municipality in short terms, given the broader context, of other positive effects in the local community, through employment, through other business activities. This is a broader perspective, and this option is offered to local communities. We will also be happy to support such a good proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u87	Thank you very much. The next is Mr Igor Peček, who will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, the representative of the government! Tourism is particularly important and extremely fast-growing economic for those countries with different natural characteristics. It is also an important factor in our lives from a social point of view as well as in terms of recreation and relaxation. The cable systems in our environment represent an important pillar of winter and annual mountain tourism. They are linked to development; they are a multiplier that brings added value not only in the narrow part where these systems are located, but much broader; therefore this economic logic of the cableway business is supported by both local communities and countries with different forms of aid and development resources. It is also true that the development process of mountain centres requires a high degree of mutual cooperation between different actors, particularly when it comes to defining objectives and related different forms and funding capabilities. Investments in cableway systems are linked to high fixed costs, fluctuations in revenue continue to make funding difficult and at the same time increase the level of risk, so in the Alpine countries, virtually everywhere in our area, there is some way that the state or the country is involved, regardless of who owns a particular cable system. The forms of integration are different. In certain cases, these are favourable low-interest loans, either in the form of single-investment subsidies or tax reliefs normally granted before the concession is granted. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cableway installations for the transport of persons follows two objectives. Firstly, it is a matter of meeting the conditions for the technical suitability of cableway installations, linking the safety of users, operators and all others in the stages of production to operation required of us by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of March 2016. Secondly, it provides a basis for the state and municipalities to allocate funds to co-finance the operation, maintenance and construction of cableway installations. The municipalities will be able to adapt co-financing according to the interest and financial capacity we have. It also seems important in the List of Marjan Šarca that the proposal for amendments and the amendment of the law does not require municipalities to carry out co-financing as an obligation, but rather as an opportunity for the co-financing process of operation, maintenance and construction to be carried out legitimately and legally. In particular, we see this as a step forward, so that mountain tourism and the related development of the other activities that accompany it will develop in the desired direction. We will support the Marjan Šarc Group for all of the above-mentioned proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u89	Thank you very much. As a last resort, Mrs Mateja Udovč will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u90	Your Honor! The Law on Cable Devices for the Transport of Persons, which we are dealing with today, aligns Slovenia's legal order with European Union legislation on cable devices, while at the same time the amendment provides that the consideration of the draft law on the home body is of the highest interest. It provides a legal basis for co-financing the costs of operation, maintenance and construction of cableway installations by municipalities and the state. In this regard, it should be pointed out that only the possibility of co-financing is offered to the municipalities, but this is not their obligation if they do not decide to do so. These provisions were clearly clarified on the Committee by the representatives of the competent ministry and the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. In the Modern Centre Party, this possibility of co-financing by municipalities or the state is welcomed, as we are aware that investments invested in cable infrastructure are only recovering from difficulties. We should also remember that Slovenian cableway operators have been in debt for many years, as they have been borrowing different loans for investments in recent years, due to green winters and the reduction in the number of skiers in recent years, and the repayment of these loans poses a major problem for them. We must be aware that the investments of cableway operators have a number of multiplier effects on the entire economy. According to some optimistic estimates, every euro invested in skis is expected to bring up to €6 in revenue, so it is only right that this financial burden is placed on other stakeholders; not that the whole burden is borne by cable operators themselves. Our skis are too small for owners to fund their own cable infrastructure. Investing in cableways is not only necessary because of the winter season, or mainly due to the summer season. Since cableway operators need a legal basis as soon as possible to finance their devices, we will support the proposal of the law in the Modern Centre. The implementation of this measure is necessary to mitigate the effects of the covida-19 pandemic. Three Members, Members of the Modern Centre Party, asked the Minister a question or initiative for a system-wide funding source; we also called on the Minister to examine the possibility of co-financing public transport with cableways as an economic public service chosen to act on the basis of public bus services. We must be aware that cableways are not only intended for skiers but are essential for access to leading destinations. Their operation is not only related to the winter season but also to the summer season or year-round season. In some cases, such cableways may allow transport connections to more difficult accessible tourist destinations. The current tourism development strategy also identifies six key policies and 75 measures to achieve the central objective of Slovenian tourism. These include legislative changes that will enable an enabling environment for the further development of tourism and the acceleration of investment in tourism infrastructure. The strategy proposes that at least part of the cableways become part of the public passenger transport system. On the basis of all the above, we will unanimously support the proposal of the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u91	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The vote on the bill will take place on Thursday, 17 December in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 13. At the end of the day, this is on a defensive proposal for a decision on the implementation of the Slovenian military’s exceptional powers in the wider protection of the state’s borders. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. At its 13th meeting, on 26 November, the Defence Committee considered the draft decision as the working body. As the Committee did not adopt the points of the proposal for a decision after the discussion, consideration of the proposal for a decision was concluded at the working body meeting. That is why we are moving on to a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. When Mr Marko Bandelli gets the first word, he will present the position of the SAB Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor! The disease pandemic covid-19 has taken global attention and has practically stopped the entire world, which has gone crazy unknown to where. On the side of government measures to combat the spread of the virus, the public also well received a debate on the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. In its explanation for the ruling, the Government stated that, in addition to the current security situation in the area of migration, one of the main reasons for the activation of this Article is the control of the situation in the country following the declaration of the epidemic and the assistance of the military to curb the spread of the virus. The problems are mainly the number of checkpoints at borders with neighbouring countries and the high exposure to possible infections, which is not least due to the human resources malnutrition of Slovenian police. The government has also voiced fear of expecting an increase in illegal crossings in a relatively short period of time. In the Government's view, it could happen that neighbouring countries close their borders and we would become some kind of pocket for migrants, as we like to call them. In the SAB Group, we decided, after careful consideration and decision of the SAB Executive Committee, that the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act would not be supported. The decision of the SAB Executive Committee reads: "The president of the SAB party, Alenka Bratušek, has already called on the government to present the situation in the country from both epidemiological and security perspectives by the end of September. Unfortunately, this presentation has not taken place, so in the SAB party we estimate that the security situation is not so serious that the Slovenian Army will be given additional powers to protect the borders. We add that the government has repeatedly shown tendencies after authoritarian leadership and sympathy with arbitrary leaders, which, as the opposition, requires us to be particularly careful when we decide on the proposal to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act." In the SAB Group, we believe that the government should put more effort and energy into convincing people to support certain measures. The government of our parliamentary group has not convinced us that this decision would be supported because we do not trust the government of Janez Janša. In the SAB Group, we respect the Slovenian Army and the Police, and we believe that they are doing their job of protecting our borders to the best of our ability; and we believe that they will continue to do so. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, at the meeting of the home working body, said that the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border at the home labour body had been concluded because the proposal for a decision had not received sufficient support from Members. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The next parliamentary group should be the SNS Parliamentary Group and, in order to present its position, Mr Victory Jelinčič is not in the Chamber. That is why we are moving on to a presentation on the position of the SDS Group. Mag. Branko Grimes has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! Five years ago, a story that started with a lot of fake humanism and then turned out to be in the right light. In fact, there is a radical Islamisation of Europe with illegal migration. In such situations it has proved that Slovenia can only rely on itself in the first place. It must protect its borders, as some neighbouring countries have done, and of course there would be no problems. However, in order to do so, it should have sufficient police or adequate capacity to actually protect the border. If Slovenia had twice the number of police officers and thus met the Schengen standard, it would not be such a problem; but it does not. And as a result of this and the exposure of Slovenia, it has proved that, despite the fact that twice this area of Europe in the lockdown due to the pandemic has come practically across borders, it has invaded the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in a comparable number than in the previous, or record year. This, of course, means that the process is continuing. Moreover, this process should never have happened. All that is happening is because the European Union's rule of law is not respected, led by a Dublin agreement; and also in the past, the case of those 530 thousand organised illegal migrants via Slovenia during the so-called Cerar Express is not respected by the rule of law. Only law and order should be respected, and all of this would not have happened. How is that possible? All of you remember that a systematic violation of the rule of law began with that sentence — Wir schaffen das!. And today we are facing all the consequences, the consequences that are multilayered and which, at the end of the day, if radical Islam overwhelms Europe, mean the end of civilization, the end of respect for human rights, the end of the protection of the weaker, especially women and children, in the form that we know today, and it seems to us to be self-evident. That is why this is a situation that should be given due weight. Believe me, we're all dealing with the pandemic today, but the covid-19 pandemic or the Wuhan Coronavirus will be defeated, believe me, sooner or later; and we won't have to wait very long. But if once radical Islam overwhelms Europe and European civilisation, there will be nothing left of what seems to be self-evident today. And there will be no rest nor for us nor for our offspring. For the next thousand years, Europe will be in a new Middle Ages. That is why it is a security situation that has been the biggest security challenge of recent times and should be given an appropriate response. It would be perfectly logical that security, which is one and indivisible, is the point at which we would reach a national agreement. It would be logical to grant police powers to the Slovenian Army, whose mission is to protect the Slovenian border. Unfortunately, this did not happen again at the Committee meeting with a sufficient number of votes. Anyone in such situations I am talking about is voting against the mandate of the Slovenian Army, against the military protecting the Slovenian border by means of police methods and means, in fact represents the fifth column in the organised invasion of radical Islam against Europe and threatens its citizens and citizens. It is the State that subordinates its political ambitions to the common ambitions of its political party. Unfortunately, they were statesmen – and consider the actions, not the words – only those who voted in favour of granting the powers of the Slovenian Army, for the safety of Slovenian citizens and citizens, for the preservation of Slovenian tradition and Slovenian culture, for the preservation of an unrenewable European civilization. Remember, Europe exists only because radical Islam has once resisted weapons; and history is here to learn something from it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Rudi Medved. He will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Marjan Šarca List, we do not support the granting of special powers to the military to protect the state border. This time, the government does not base the proposal on increased pressure on migrants at the southern border, which it cannot, as the number of illegal crossings in the last period has significantly decreased compared to the same period last year; although in the summer, the interior minister and his secretary have feared that migrants would flood us and will infect us all. They didn't flood us, and we got infected on our own. It is true, however, that the Slovenian Armed Forces are also responsible for the effective management of migration in many ways, as it has been intensively assisting the Police in the last five years, both with soldiers and with technology; and this is what advocates in the excitement of the activation of special powers are keen to remain silent. In the government of Marjana Šarca last year, we equipped the Police with drones, video surveillance systems and armored troops at the border. So the military is at the border, and cooperation with the police is exemplary and effective. The Government now cites the declared epidemic as the reason for the urgency of the entry into force of Article 37a of the Defence Act. The powers of the military were to be granted for three months, although the epidemic was declared by 18 December. Even if it's extended by a month or so, why the three-month mandate? Because the way this government operates is the continuous creation of emergency situations within the epidemic, which in itself brings about an extraordinary situation. But we're in an epidemic, we're not in a war, even though this government wants to impose a state of war on us, and it's actually all alone in a psychological war with its own citizens. With the constant search for the culprits to spread the virus, the government is not capable of self-reflexion, so that if it does not already wish to the citizens, it would admit that something bad is going on in Slovenia to control the virus so that military rhetoric and increase repression cannot be an exit strategy. At a time when the world was preparing for the second wave of the epidemic, we were in Slovenia – and also now in a time of disaster – witnessing the subjugation of the media, the judiciary, the prosecution, the police. We are witnesses to the threat of democracy and the rule of law. The largest government party with occasional negativity, but without more serious opposition, subordinate coalition partners to an epidemic of abuse for narrow party interests, to increase repression, to strengthen control, to account for all who do not follow its ideology. We have come so far as to detect even openly racist content in one of the media's partial ownership of SDS with a recipe for natural pests, such as migrants. In the letter of Marjan Šarc, we do not agree to the logic that we are at war. That is why we trust the profession in controlling the epidemic, although we are probably the only country in the world that has ruled out epidemiologists. And we don't trust this government. We don't trust this policy. Therefore, we cannot give her such sensitive tools as the military's special powers as an alibi, so that we can further increase police control over citizens. In the spring of the request for the entry into force of Article 37a, the Minister of the Interior announced that history would be judged by those against. The question is how history will judge those who rule the country at these most difficult times in its recent times.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u97	Thank you very much. We're moving on with our positions. Mr Bevk alone will present the position of the SD Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u98	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! For the second time this year, we have before us the proposal for a decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border, in short – the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act. This did not receive the necessary two-thirds support on the parental committee. We will not support or support another proposed decision in the Group of Social Democrats. If we look only at statistics of illegal state border crossings available on police websites, this is the following for November 2020, quote: "The figures for the same period last year decreased by 8.8%. The steep increase in August was followed by a steep decline in the number of illegal crossings. This is the expected seasonal decline in number." That's the police. Also, the trend in illegal crossings over the last three months compared to the same last year shows the following: in September this year we had 408 fewer crossings, October 980 and November this year 357 fewer illegal crossings. So the figures indicate a significant decline in illegal transitions compared to last year. On the basis of the trend, it is therefore expected that the number of illegal crossings will be even smaller over the next three months for several reasons, which certainly include a less favourable period of time, and also due to the coronavirus pandemic. We are also convinced that the police, together with members of the Slovenian Armed Forces, are in control of the situation at the external Schengen state border. With the first activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act in April this year as well as now, the government estimates that the activation is linked to the situation of the declaration of the epidemic or the implementation of measures in the control and control of the covida-19 epidemic. In her explanation, she stated, inter alia, that the police were placed in a given situation ahead of new tasks and obligations, including several checkpoints at parts of the state border with the Republic of Austria, Italy and Hungary. The security situation of Slovenia will not deteriorate as a result of illegal transitions, but it can be aggravated by the dissatisfaction of people with measures that the government continues to produce; it does not even seek to improve communication with the people of the Republic of Slovenia. One of the controversial decisions is that the condition for the passage of municipalities within the so-called safe statistical regions is the use of the application #StayHealth, which is supposed to be based on voluntary use. A respected government, assigning additional tasks to police officers or inspectors for whom they are not authorised at all, such as reviewing whether our citizens and citizens have an application imposed, will not be impressed among the people. Nor will such ad hoc measures help to improve the epidemiological situation in the country. As has been said many times, the Social Democrats trust Slovenian police and soldiers. However, we do not trust a government that is so quick and thoughtful to take measures that are particularly disturbing to people. As if people don't already have enough concerns about how they will coordinate their work obligations with children's education and household chores at the same time. We also understand some expectations that the military will protect our borders, but Slovenian soldiers and soldiers are simply not enough. However, they must be activated in support of security and rescue forces; their presence, capacity and technology must be used where necessary. The current situation shows that we do not need an army with police powers at the border. However, we need long-term guidance on how to complete military and police species. Above all, there is a need for reflection, including on the government, on how to strengthen the workforce during the pandemic in professions that care for human health in public health and social institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Jelinčič, you have a procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. I would ask that this provision be amended by which a person, if not currently in the Chamber and unable to speak, is deleted from the order. I would suggest that in the future this should be done in such a way that he can finally express his opinion, especially today. Today, it is a hot topic, and according to everything else, and since many people get out of talking, then a lot of things go wrong. Today we are talking about the tasks that soldiers should perform, and the National Assembly did not allow this. It's a complete misunderstanding of what the military is all about and what the police are all about. The army protects the borders of every country, that's the postulate of an army. The police are protecting order and peace within the country. Therefore, it is necessary to say here, not only must we determine and decide whether to be or not; the military must protect borders. That's what Austria does. That's what Italy does. That's what Switzerland does. In Switzerland, they protect the border even with sharp ammunition. We're going to see one of the creeps, one of them don't know what, little raspberries who don't know what to do with their country. And such matters must be given the opportunity of the Member to say. And if he is late, please, Madam President, in the future, somehow on the business committee or anywhere, I would ask you to give the initiative to change this decision or this decision. Such matters, which are particularly important for the Slovenian State, which some part of the National Assembly does not understand because it does not care about its own country, because it would sell its own country to anyone, migrants, I do not know who else; in that case, please, if this can change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Member, for your procedural proposal. I'm vice president, so there won't be a mistake for a magnetogram. So far, we have such an agreement and parliamentary practice that positions do not change or that the order of views does not change. However, you have rightly found that the only way to change this is to take the initiative of the Rules of Procedure Commission. I'm returning the ball to you, and prepare the initiative we'll discuss on the committee. However, I must admit that you have skillfully applied your procedural proposal. We're moving on with our positions. Ms Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u102	Thank you so much for the word and a nice greeting to everyone! In recent weeks, we have found ourselves in an extremely difficult situation. On the one hand, we have faced a long-standing migration problem and illegal state border crossings and, on the other hand, a health epidemic. We believe that the safety and health of citizens and citizens, the national interests of the country and the management of all kinds of risks are at the top of these issues and that the situation on the ground needs to be adapted. We have followed this simple and logical principle in the Modern Centre Party already in 2015 in support of the proposal to complement the Defence Act. This Slovenian army temporarily allows additional powers to assist and coordinate with the police in ensuring the safety of both citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and migrants. We fully trust the Slovenian Army and the police in the SMC. We trust in their work and in their professional attitude towards the performance of the duties imposed on them by law. From the point of view of our country's sovereignty, it is important that we be able to rely on our own strengths, knowledge and resources. The current security situation indicates that it is reasonable and reasonable for members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to play a greater role in ensuring security. By including the army in the protection of the southern border, they would relieve and partially replace police members, thereby releasing their personnel resources to carry out tasks inside the country. The data show that in recent weeks the arrival of illegal refugees along the Western Balkan migration route has been much more concentrated as migrants join larger groups with the help of smuggling guides. This alone increases security risks for police officers in the field. The increase in epidemics and the number of patients, including among police officers, is causing them to have additional staff shortages and uncertainty that they will therefore not be in line with the increased scope of tasks and obligations. The Government has therefore adopted a proposal for a decision to activate Article 37a of the Defence Act in order to effectively manage migration flows and for the smooth functioning of the State, and has sent it for final confirmation to the National Assembly. According to our assessment, the decision also took due account of the comments and proposals made by the Group of the Modern Centre Party. We have in mind a three-month time limit and a territorial focus on the borderline in directing and controlling migration flows at our southern border. In particular, the proposal for a decision did not allow members of the Slovenian Armed Forces to be sent to the streets of Slovenian cities, as the opposition cited too often and misleadingly. In the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, with the support of the activation of Article 37a of the Defence Act, we have demonstrated our responsibility to ensure the continued smooth functioning of the country and the appropriate security of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Ms Natasa Sukič will present the position of the Left Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye! The army is the main and most powerful repressive apparatus in the country. It is intended to protect the country from the outside, to ensure security from the outside. Police are responsible for ensuring security on the inside, regulating the civilian situation. This is a division that has historically been established because, in world history, the military, with great brutality, has intervened too often in the internal affairs of the countries. The adoption of Article 37a in 2015 meant the beginning of a breach of this regime and we opposed it at the time in Levica and we will oppose any attempts to activate the army to ensure internal security. Even more so when this activation is not intended to provide any security, but when the granting of police powers to the military serves to promote and seek legitimacy for the government's 780 million-euro planned weapons operations, to create emergency situations, to increase repression and militarize society and to spread xenophobia and to paint an external enemy who is to blame for the increasingly unsustainable situation in the country. The ruling coalition has already proposed, for the second time in one year, the granting of police powers to the military, allegedly due to the increased number of illegal crossings of the state border at a time when their number has actually dropped dramatically. Because of the lockdown across virtually the world, crossing borders is virtually impossible. Therefore, in September this year 300 illegal border crossings were less than last September and in November more than a thousand illegal border crossings. In a police report on irregular migration, we can read before the government's proposal to grant police powers to the military, stating: "The trend in illegal transitions has increased sharply by August. This was followed by an expected decline in the number of illegal crossings.” Since official statistics are not good for her, the government is using war rhetoric and the dehumanisation of refugees to justify additional measures that slow us down, but they persist in authoritarianism. Yes, we are talking about refugees and not migrants, not because they would have refugee status, unfortunately they have no refugee status, and they will never have one, because that government will not give it to them. We're talking about refugees because they're people running from war, hunger, poverty, drought and so on. And virtually all these reasons why these people are forced to leave their homes and walk with their bellies over half of the globe on bread are directly and indirectly due to the actions of the so-called developed countries, whether it be an imperial war, devastation, supporting and arming dictatorial regimes, looting natural resources with unfair trade agreements and exploiting cheap labour in the so-called free tax zones or unbridled burning of fossil fuels and increasing the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. All of which is actively or passively supported by Slovenia. We are not threatened by naked and bare fugitives, but by the government, the Slovenian government, which goes with a pendejo over its own citizens and bruises with powder, so that it beats someone else even more with darker skin color. We are threatened by the government, which relies on the country's repressive apparatus in its inability to control the epidemic in order to ensure respect for measures that do not work. We are threatened by the government, which has been drowning in corruption since its appearance, destroying the economy and jobs and selling key rail infrastructure to its Hungarian patron. We are threatened by the government, which is engulfing public health, which is why hundreds of people die. At the same time, at the time of the worst health and economic crisis, he spends hundreds of millions of ours, public money for arms purchases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Černigoj will be the last to present the position of the NSI Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u106	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Respectable citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia! In modern times migration is a complex global phenomenon facing all countries of the world, in this case Slovenia too. We must acknowledge that irregular migration in Slovenia is a problem that we need to address more critically, and in particular to use all the resources available to the country, including the more active role of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, who live on the border or near the road and the corridors through which irregular migration is taking place, have already turned to New Slovenia – Christian Democrats. The fact is that in 20 years, with the exception of 2015, they did not list as many illegal border crossings as last year and this year. Although this year the numbers for knowledge are lower than last year, it should be borne in mind that the limits were practically closed for two and a half months due to the pandemic. Citizens and citizens feel that irregular migration has calmed down. Citizens and citizens at the border know this is not true. The organisers of illegal crossings have changed the dynamics of the crossings, and they no longer take place along state and local roads, but through forest roads and forests. A clear indicator on the ground is also the garbage that illegal migrants leave behind. Last year only 10 tons of light waste had to be disposed of in the municipality of Illyrian Bistrica. This year, this number has already exceeded 11 tons. A healthy farmer's brain tells us that a small number of irregular migrants can no longer leave garbage behind. Therefore, as a member of the border and all colleagues in the New Slovenia Group, I am repeatedly asked by the National Assembly and the Government to draw attention to the pressing problem of not only illegal entry into the Republic of Slovenia, but also to the worrying movements of migrants against the interior of the country. Being at the border alone, I understand the plight of the burdened citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and their desire to resolve this problem as soon as possible. The inhabitants of the border are not afraid of our domestic Slovenian armies. On the contrary, her presence is desirable. Many border mayors have called for the activation of Article 37a to remind this esteemed assembly once again that 23 mayors of the initiative on the activation of this Article are signatories. The following was an open letter from 11 border Downland and Belarusian mayors on the need for priority security at the southern border and four other mayors who agree with the increased powers of the military on the basis of a positive opinion of experts. Thus, only five mayors have not joined the various initiatives on improving the protection of the Schengen border. In the New Slovenia Group, we therefore regret that, at the vote of the Defence Committee, the Proposal for a Decision on the exercise of the exceptional powers of the Slovenian Armed Forces in the wider protection of the state border has not been adopted again; and that is why, today, there is no vote in the Chamber of Democracy. However, this topic is not and must not be completed. We believe that the security of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is crucial, so we will continue to have a patient and reasoned dialogue with the parliamentary groups in the National Assembly. We hope for the reasonableness of our colleagues and colleagues in this Chamber, and above all we want to find a political solution that would have a unified agreement before, God forbid, an event that we will all regret. Then the competition in support of activation will be enormous and the content will be secondary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u107	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the procedure for examining the proposal for a decision has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's a first-hand proposal for a bill on national demographics. The draft law was tabled by the Government. With regard to this bill, a group of 46 Members and Members with the first-signed Daniel Krivec requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Finance of Magi. To Andre Shirtzle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u108	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Members, honourable Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly a draft law on the National Demographic Fund for legislative proceedings. The legal basis for this act was established in 2013 with the implementation of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. This government is the first government to do so, which is proposing a law on the National Demographic Fund to the National Assembly for adoption. The demographic funds are state-owned investment funds, which are intended to provide pre-financing for pensions. As a result of demographic trends, most European pension funds generally raise less money than pension obligations. In Slovenia, too, the pensioner collects for a good 17% less annually than the pension expenditure. This missing funding replaces the state budget, approximately EUR billion in 2019. The purpose of the demographic fund is, therefore, to co-finance pensions in part of those transfer revenue from the State budget and thus to relieve the budget so that the budget can implement sound social, development, investment and other policies of the country. In view of the demographic trends in Slovenia, I am thinking mainly of population ageing, given the negative situation of income relative to pension fund expenditure and also given the current situation of high pressure to address the consequences of the covida-19 epidemic, we cannot talk about the total accumulation of assets of the demographic fund at the present time. This means that this demographic fund or its income would not be able to co-finance the pension fund until 15 or 20 years later. It is necessary to act fairly, in a balanced and economic manner already today, on the basis of general intergenerational solidarity, which will include both the younger and the older population of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government proposes to ensure that as late as possible the change in the generation curve or the prevention of this, and for the sustainability of co-financing of the pension fund by means of a bill, it proposes to ensure that the fund has as much equity and administrative consolidation as possible of capital investments, the accumulation of the fund's assets of 40 % of dividends and 60 % of purchases, the payment of 40 % of dividends and 40 % of potential purchases into the pension fund, the provision of funds to co-finance family policy measures of 10% of dividends and the provision of funds to co-finance policies for the care of older persons of 10% of dividends. In addition to this, a single, transparent, safer and more efficient corporate governance system of state-owned companies is established through the equity concentration of most of the capital investments of the countries. The management of these funds is based on the Fund's investment management strategy, which will also include investment policy and will be adopted by the National Assembly at the proposal of the Government. Companies owned by the Fund will have the required criteria for measuring performance and their operations. The independence, expertise, transparency, prudence and responsibility of the Fund’s investment management will be ensured by the Fund’s professional and balanced supervisory board. With the Demographic Fund Act, we will increase the security of pension payments and, of course, increase the amount of pensions. On the basis of the above, the Government considers that the proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration and necessary to ensure the sustainability of pension funds and public finances and to co-finance family policies and care for the elderly on the basis of intergenerational solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Robert Polnar is given the floor to present the position of the Desus Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! The purpose of the demographic fund is to ensure the long-term sustainability of the pension system by providing certain, further-funded funds for the purpose of paying pensions which will become part of the supporting pension scheme. This will achieve a more balanced income from the pension fund. When we are talking about the demographic challenges of a society, they must be understood in the broadest context and pervasive characteristics of all its causes and consequences. They are reflected in the composition, state and movement of the population. What can a Slovenian country that is the fastest growing society in Europe do to solve demographic problems? Slovenia is one of the smaller countries with a modern type of reproduction. This cannot give positive results in favour of an effective increase in fertility and thus the necessary balance between the working and retired generation. The requirements of demographic policy are therefore very strict, but most of all they are reflected in the stability and sustainability of the pension allowance, the adequacy of long-term care and the foreseeable situation of family policy. The social essence of the objective of the economic and social well-being of the people should be strengthened by implementing demographic policy measures, including through the use of available sources of funding resulting from the use of national wealth. The success and effectiveness of such behaviours depend on the political will to take certain measures. These measures have become much clearer than they have been in the mandate of this government so far. The establishment of the Demography Office, which will develop and implement a fundamental and development policy of governance with demographic challenges, is the first step towards more decisive action in the building of a future intergenerational, co-dependent society. The second step is to complete the establishment of a real demographic fund which, with clear objectives and corresponding financial inputs, could respond rapidly to the priorities that have been highlighted in the field of demographics in the Republic of Slovenia for many years. It is therefore time to decide on an appropriate institutional solution to regulate the establishment of sustainable sources of financing, the way in which and how to manage and manage, and the quality of the future operation of the umbrella manager of national wealth. The proposal for a national demographic fund law can, in the opinion of most Members of the Desus Group, realise expectations after the long-term stable co-financing of pension fund expenditure. Members of Parliament, Members, the capital company has been set up to cover the deficit in the pension and disability insurance system financed under the intergenerational exchange system. According to its content and objectives, since its inception it has acted as a demographic fund, formal transformation into a demographic fund means that it must be strengthened financially. Since 2000, the State budget has been legally responsible for balancing the revenue and expenditure of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance and for allowing it to operate in a balanced manner. The obligation of the State to cover the difference between the income and expenditure of the institution remains in the applicable pension law. The obligation to cover the deficit is not related to the specific rights of the public pension system, but rather to the undetermined and variable obligation of the State budget and therefore the apparent balanced budget of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office poses a latent threat to the balance of the state budget. The fact that the pension system is largely dependent on the state budget also contains an important implication in terms of the idea of the demographic fund. This is largely based on the sub-use of national wealth for the purpose of financing the pension system. On the income side of the Pension and Disability Insurance Office in the future, there will be no stable resources, both by content and by height. The revenue side with its own dynamics will not be able to follow the increasing cost needs. Under the provisions of the Slovenian State Holding Act, a capital company should be transformed into an independent autonomous demographic reserve fund by 31 December 2015. That didn't happen. During the previous term of office of the National Assembly, the Desus Group introduced a law on the Slovenian Demographic Reserve Fund into the legislative procedure. This happened on 30 January 2018. The government withdrew a month and a half later, so the legislative process was closed. The main reason for the inability to make decisions on this important institution is the dispersion between privatisation ambitions, the provision of a social state and the implementation of corporate governance. It is clear that learning from mistakes in Slovenian political and corporate practices means repeating them, not eliminating them. Corporate governance is an old blind spot of the market economy. Adam Smith is no longer able to find a good word in the wealth of the nations for equity societies, both those regulated by a special royal seal, like the others, completely private. Simplely, the capital managed by the administration is more foreign than theirs, and therefore, according to Smith's opinion, carelessness and loss. So politics has never been separated from stock companies, not yesterday and not today. The modern-day complexity of corporate governance has only increased by globalisation, financialisation and deregulation, and for the past 25 years there have been many reports of legislative changes, systemic recommendations, particularly the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, and ethical codes. In the background, there is some disputed theory of companies and old market demagogies that the company has a key capital, administration and supervisory councils representing the interests of shareholders, not the interests of companies or a wider company. Sustainable development, social responsibility and economic democracy are the internal management problems of businesses in this respect. The business concept did not penetrate legislation, nor into business and accounting standards, so corporate governance is not only an economic but also a moral issue. We have regulated corporate governance according to the direction of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. Its guidelines, which have a single objective: to prevent a country as owner from exercising its management and ownership rights as much as possible. Corporate governance has become part of the populist demagogies, the flawed exclusive sovereignty of capital and the divisional prey of miraculous human resources commissions. We've developed a system that obviously doesn't work. We're talking depoliticization, and then we're surprised when third-class careers are caught in human resources networks. We cannot demand the professional responsibility of the supervisory councils and have amateur governance, which is particularly the case with the dominant dual-tier system. Corporate governance must become a professional area with state certification. Loss of license due to infringements is a loss of profession. It's the only way to get serious and responsible people, not codes and courts. What was lacking to date in the proposals for the establishment of a demographic fund is additional to the level and structure of a stable resource. In recent years, Desus has taken care of one of the sources of funding. In the Slovenian State Holding Act of March 2014, we achieved that 10% of purchases are made from the sale of state assets for the financing of the demographic fund. To date, EUR 159 million has been raised in this account for the transfer to the Fund. The simulations of demographic movements do not predict anything optimistic. By 2050, according to Eurostat's projections, the proportion of people over 65 years of age from the current 20% to 31%, with fairly optimistic assumptions on migration. Currently, 1 out of every 5 inhabitants is 65 years old and over, almost 1 out of every 3 people will be living in 2050. On the other hand, the proportion between 20 and 64 years of age will decrease, further exacerbating the relationship between workers and those in retirement. The ageing of society means an inevitable increase in pressure on public resources to support health and the general economic well-being of older citizens. Demographic trends and the related issue of the fiscal sustainability of the pension system on the one hand and low pensions on the other are indicators calling for concrete measures to be taken by our pension system. And not only in the light of the tightening of the conditions of retirement and the overlap on the expenditure side of the pension fund, we have thus mitigated the need to increase public finances in Slovenia through pension reforms; now it is about providing additional financial resources for pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! In the second half of the previous year, 2019, from August to November, as part of the previous coalition, we participated in the preparation of the Demographic Fund Act. There were two basic assumptions: the transfer of the Capital Society to the demographic fund and the 20-year accumulation period. In cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, five variants of the size and structure of the core capital were prepared. For each variant, future return simulations have been made taking into account the different rates of return and the accumulation period. Two major shortcomings have been identified. In any event, the size of the demographic fund was too low, as was its co-financing of the pension fund in the coming period. Since then, from November 2019 until today, another radical change has taken place. The epidemic has profoundly changed the state's public finances, as its consequences cannot be mitigated and limited without the use of fiscal policy instruments, without the use of urgent debt. This must be taken into account because it is an irrefutable reality. The different scenarios of time dynamics for both filling the demographic fund and drawing on its returns are thus placed in a completely new and unexpected context. Denial of reality means non-recognition of objective facts. In our case, this led to a revision of the position on the urgency of the accumulation period in the view of the need for the free accumulation of the assets of the future demographic fund and, at the same time, partial application of the benefits for the co-financing of the pension treasury. Future income, sales and dividend income will be used for the following purposes: 60% of purchases and 40% of dividends for non-accumulation; 40% of purchases and 40% of dividends for co-financing of pension funds; 10% of dividends for co-financing of policies taking care of older people and 10% of dividends for co-financing of family policies. In the Desus Group, we see the bill as a compromise between the current proposals, which have all experienced the same fate in order – whether they have not come into the legislative process or not. We estimate that good political action is precisely in the search for and making compromises, so we will support the National Demographic Fund Bill for the most part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Mag. Reich, here you go. Procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u112	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, I have a procedural proposal, and I ask you to listen to it because it is urgent and indispensable. Today, in America, electors also confirmed the winner of the presidential elections in the United States. The Slovenian government has not yet congratulated the winner; even more, it congratulated the loser. Therefore, please inform or invite the President of the National Assembly to congratulate the winner of the presidential elections in the United States of America on behalf of the National Assembly which confirmed this government. If the government does not do so, I propose that, on behalf of Slovenia, the Council of State do so, thereby endorsing the damage and suicide policies implemented by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u113	Mr. Reich, I warn you to stick to the rules of procedure. This is not the agenda item. Mr Dušan Šiško will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u114	Chairman, thank you. Nice greetings to all present, to those who know this point, and also to those who do not know what point we are discussing. In the Slovenian National Party, we are very skeptical of the various proposals on such and different demographic funds, which should provide additional funds for pensions. We agree that it would make sense to pool all state investments under one operator. And that's all. The bill is very optimistic about the purpose of the law, but in our view no line will be achieved. The fund will never be independent and autonomous, as it will have all the levers of policy management. The increase in the value of the asset fund should be self-evident, but not with inputs from the State, but with effective management. This means that investments are bought cheap and expensive sales. So far, the management of state property has been quite the opposite. There were a number of affairs that no one was responsible for. All property managers should have a fixed wage of the average salary of the Republic of Slovenia. At the end of the five-year term of office, however, their value would be determined. If the value of the property were higher, the management would be rewarded with a variable part of the salary. If the property remained at the same or lower level of value, there would be no variable part of the salary. Intergenerational solidarity is gone. Every generation has retired under different conditions and every generation has a lower pension. Young people don't believe in the pension system anymore. The pension box has never been and will not be rich enough to cover all pensions, as each year it spends about a billion euros from the state budget. Slovenia has a large number of pensioners, a low working population, too low wages, too weak a state investment, from which it could draw additional pension funds. Demographic funds should be set up in the 1990s when there was still a lot of social property that could be cashed into the fund. This social property in the form of state-owned companies should be nobled over the years and later sold expensively to strategic investors. But we went to the Wild West and to the wild privatisation, where only some of the electorates benefited with excellent political and economic connections. Politics should make it clear to people that only those who have high wages and who will save themselves for their pensions will be able to have decent pensions. The current situation in the area of pensions is shameful. If someone has worked for 40 years, they should receive a pension of at least 800 euros. In Slovenia, however, average pensions and monetary social assistance will soon be equal; this is not fair to all those who have worked well all the years. In the Slovenian National Party, it is envisaged that the establishment of the demographic fund will have no major impact on additional revenues from state investments. Moreover, the establishment will be linked to a number of costs of assessing the assets of the new fund. There will be a lot of legal and audit costs again a lot of meetings for supervisory councils, awards and emoluments for the Fund's administration and so on. The appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Institute has become very complex in the draft law. All supervisors should be appointed to the National Assembly. This proposal for a law will certainly not have the effect that it would be expected to have in our parliamentary group, and as the pensioners would have deserved it eventually.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u115	Thank you very much. The position of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities will be presented by Felice Žiž. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u116	Dear Vice-President of the National Assembly, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Egregio Vice Presidente della Camera di Stato, Grazie per la password. Egregi deputies! Tiste Hölgyim és Uraim! In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we will support the proposal for a National Demographic Fund Act, since at the moment, in Slovenia, one fifth of the population is over 65. The organization of the United Nations ranks the Republic of Slovenia according to projections among the ten oldest countries in the world, which is certainly not bad. The ageing population is still at the forefront and will increase in the coming years. There are great pressures, and we can also understand, on certain systems such as the pension, health and social system. Money flows to the pension fund through social contributions, which is now sufficient to pay slightly more than 80% of pensions. It is projected that in the next 50 years this share of pension payments from the pension fund will fall to below 58 %. Therefore, the establishment of a national demographic fund will greatly ease the pressure on public finances while providing additional funding for decent pensions and co-financing of policies for the care of older citizens and for the care of family policy. According to this, almost all the country's investments could be centralised with certain specific exceptions for which the State has to maintain ownership. The Fund, however, would focus on current and future generations of pensioners and on the implementation of family policy measures. The Italian and Hungarian national communities point out, however, that the State, apart from grants for projects and programmes under the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development, is not well concerned about the realization of the constitutional right of national communities in the field of their own economic base. The indigenous national communities were thus entirely dependent on the state until the 1990s without their own economic base. Fresh funds for the economic basis of indigenous national communities under the Law on the use of the funds derived from purchases under the Law on the Property Conversion of Enterprises as a result of the completed wave of privatisations are no longer available and it is therefore virtually impossible to draw funds from this title. In the Italian and Hungarian National Communities Group, we therefore expect the national demographic fund to allocate a share of the investment management revenues to the economic base of indigenous national communities. This will not only ensure the existence of both national communities, but will allow and assist the development of regions in which indigenous communities live and, above all, encourage cross-border cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u118	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on the National Demographic Fund. The fact is that Slovenia needs a demographic fund, and the National Assembly has discussed it many times. We cannot go beyond the fact that the demographic fund should be established in Slovenia as early as 2012, this was foreseen by the Pension and Disability Insurance Act to be established in 2013. This attempt has failed. Article 79 of the Slovenian State Holding Act then provided for the transformation of the Capital Society into an autonomous demographic fund by the end of 2015 at the latest. Neither has this matter been realized and not carried out. Today we are in 2020, and before us is a new law, a new law prepared by the government of Janez Janša and a new coalition. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this proposal is correct, and we are confident that it will meet all the conditions envisaged for a quality demographic fund. The proposed law aims to concentrate all the country's investments with certain specific exceptions, where ownership is to be maintained by the Republic of Slovenia, with one operator; the revenues from these investments are to be earmarked primarily for current and future generations of pensioners and for the implementation of family policy measures. The property of the Republic of Slovenia is currently owned by several legal persons who are pursuing various business objectives. The property is often not managed optimally, meaning that the profitability for owners is not maximum, but is subordinated to the different objectives of these companies. We have witnessed in the past that two state funds have voted differently in the societies' assemblies. With such management, one-stop-shop management could no longer be repeated in future such events. The main solutions to the law that we have on the table today are: the transformation of the Slovenian State Holding Company into a new company, that is, the National Demographic Fund, where ownership and management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia are concentrated in one place; the transfer of all investments of the Republic of Slovenia with certain exceptions and investments of the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute in the Zavarovnica Triglav, d.d., and the Real Estate Pension and Disability Insurance Fund to the National Demographic Fund; the accession of the Capital Society of Pension and Disability Insurance and the Society for Consulting and Management, and the transfer of assets and rights and obligations of the Company for the management of bank receivables to the National Demographic Fund; the provision of the independence and autonomy of the National Demographic Fund for the management of investments; the determination of the content of the investment management strategy of the Fund, which replaces the State investment management strategy. The strategy is based on the classification of individual investment groups and thus on the identification of how to manage and dispose of investments. Demographic projections show a high increase in public financial expenditure for pensions and challenge all generations to agree together on how a country can ensure the most equitable and encouraging environment for co-operation by redistributing its revenues. For example, between 2016 and 2070 alone, expenditure from 21,9 % of gross domestic product to 28,2 % of gross domestic product should be increased. The number of pensioners is expected to increase by 20% by 2070. The Slovenian pension system, which operates on the principle of solidarity, is no longer able to ensure long-term sustainability in the situation of the smaller active population, as pension security contributions paid already do not provide sufficient funds for the payment of pensions; and the lack of resources must be provided by the State through the state budget. The main solutions of the National Demographic Fund Act relieve the pressure on public finances while providing additional funding for decent pensions. The importance of the demographic fund is also that it relieves the state budget not only for regular payments to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia, but also during crises when the budget is even more burdensome. Under the proposed law, the management of the National Fund should be based on the principles of independence that ensure independence, independence and non-political action, the principles of due diligence and accountability, which ensure clearly defined rights, obligations, competences of individual holders, the principle of transparency in the decision-making process, the principle of economic efficiency, which must act economically, effectively and in a manner that allows the achievement of the objectives set out in investment management acts; the principle of security, dispersion, liquidity and return on investments that ensure the accumulation of resources for the co-financing of compulsory pension and disability insurance. The assets of the fund shall be accumulated permanently or indefinitely. The law provides that dividends from capital investments are used: 40 % for current payments to the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, 40 % for the accumulation of the assets of the fund, 10 % for the construction of dedicated real estate for the elderly, 10 % for family policy measures. The purchases from the sale of the domestic investments of the Fund shall be used: 40 % for payments to the ZPIZ and 60 % for the accumulation of the assets of the Fund. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal of the law in the first reading. We are convinced that the bill is positive for all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, for current pensioners and for all future pensioners. We cannot go beyond the fact that Slovenia needs a demographic fund. We have already mentioned in the introduction that it was envisaged that Slovenia's first demographic fund would be awarded in 2013, of which 7 years had passed. In doing so, at least three governments have been replaced and no government or coalition has been able to establish a demographic fund. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we are confident that this coalition will succeed, something that is good for all. Finally, we have our first reading of the law in the National Assembly. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we commit ourselves to listen to all the proposals and to take all the good proposals into account in improving this law as well. We are convinced that this is a law that makes sense for both the opposition and the coalition to participate. Once again, the good proposals to be made will, of course, be taken into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of Marjan Šarca will be presented by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u120	Thank you, Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! From 2012 onwards, various proposals are being formulated to design a demographic fund in Slovenia. Opinions differ, but there are, above all, different views on ownership, governance, sources of finance, accumulation, policy and efficiency. At that time, five governments have been replaced, making it difficult for us to establish this fund, as politics has not yet been able to unify itself in this regard. In Slovenia, 20,000 young people enter the labour market every year and 30,000 people retire. The Slovenian labour market thus loses 10,000 workers each year. According to the projections of Umarje, which do not take into account migration, the number of workers in Slovenia will decrease by 150 000 in 2026 compared to 2006 and the number of people over 65 will increase by 180 000. That is why in the List of Marjana Šarca we are very concerned about negative demographic trends in Slovenia and we want to find an effective solution for both our age and the next generation. Unfortunately, however, the Government's proposal for a law on the national demographics fund ahead of us is by no means adequately designed to support it. In the List of Marjan Šarca, we advocate the idea that if the fund is established, it is not a transfer of ownership as envisaged by the government proposal, because we believe that the owner must still remain the Republic of Slovenia. In view of the government proposal, the fund would therefore not only be the manager, but also the owner of most of the country's capital investments, which would have been newly concentrated in this fund. This raises the question of whether, by transferring the ownership of state property to the demographic fund, the credit rating, the cost of financing, the deterioration of access to financial markets, the reduction of competitiveness, the level of productivity and the gross social product would be reduced. At the same time, there is also concern that this policy would allow for easier replacement of people who decide in supervisory boards in state societies, and thus more control over state assets, which we do not support in the Marjan Sarca List. The Commission also drew attention to these problems in order to prevent corruption, which has made extensive negative comments to the government's proposal and has cited the proposal, quote, "this is a shift from the proper perception and management of many years of recognized corruption risks in companies with the country's capital investment and does not contribute to enhancing integrity and preventing corruption". The government proposal does not take into account some of the very important provisions of the SDH law, particularly those which introduced safeguards to strengthen the independence of society in the functioning of SDH. At the same time, the Commission notes that the government proposal does not follow the principles of due diligence and accountability, independence and transparency, does not ensure greater accountability and integrity, and does not limit the risks of corruption and conflicts of interest, does not establish a framework for non-political action and thus does not provide for control over the assets of the members of the supervisory authority. The proposal also does not contain any prohibitions and restrictions on the Fund and its staff in the area of receiving gifts. In the List of Marjan Šarc, we believe that in order to avoid the collapse of the pension system in addition to a well-designed and well-thought-out proposal for a demographic fund law, of course with appropriate safeguards, it will also be necessary to consider complementary solutions that will provide additional resources in addition to the fund for co-financing pension funds. We will also actively seek solutions in order to regulate the long-term care system, increase productivity in Slovenia, focus on high-tech products and services, increase the share of active older people, especially in the sense that as few people as possible are in social support. The pension system is important for every society and for all generations, so it is necessary to start strengthening solidarity among generations and to find a way for young people to start believing that they will not only pay the system, but, after working hours, they will have decent pensions for a secure age. We believe that the country is the one that must encourage the second pension pillar, that young employees start saving for their pension or old age at the first salary and are not just waiting to receive a high pension from the country. For this reason, it seems very important for young people to learn about financial literacy in schools, to understand things better, to feel more actively involved in the pension system and to see a greater sense of saving for their age.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Sonibo Knezak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u122	Thank you, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we will discuss a government proposal for a law on the demographic fund. This debate will take place two months after the ruling coalition, without a proper debate, has been making it inappropriate to mark the bill we have drafted in the opposition. They rejected a proposal based on respect for the laws already adopted and an approved course. With the adoption of the law, the pension fund would provide a third source of funding, which would also ensure the security of pensions for generations within a few decades. The rulers were not interested in solutions, but they were dismayed at the fact that we had overtaken them. They were not interested in the reasons, but they were only interested in why you did not do so in the government. They have apparently quickly withdrawn their proposal for a law, forgetting that the creation of a demographic fund is a topic for which we need a national consensus, not a vote. They have forgotten that we must form a fund to secure future generations' pensions, not for current exhaustion and consumption. They have also forgotten the laws adopted, the rules in force and the principles of corporate governance, since many of the solutions proposed are in direct contradiction with them. The latter was also recalled by the competent – the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, a significant part of the profession and trade unions. Although the rulers know all this, they continue to rush into the adoption of the law. Let us note that this law, which will have an outstanding and long-term impact on public finances and the lives of all over the next half century, has neither been public debate nor adequate social dialogue. The social partners, like all of us in other government proposals, were faced with facts. When the negotiating group was finally established, it turned out that government representatives were not prepared for any change in their proposal. Thus, respected colleagues and colleagues look like social dialogue under the government of Janez Janša. We have repeatedly highlighted the weaknesses of government law: the mixing of ownership and management roles, the vaguely defined objective of the Fund, the exhaustion of the funds of the current consumption fund and the huge reduction in the high standards required for the management of state-owned enterprises. Instead of building on the purpose and the way in which the fund will become as stable as possible support to the threatened pension fund, this proposal would continue to wear out and the future risks of the pension fund will not be mitigated by anything. The rulers of this proposal are creating some sort of multi-purpose mastodon, which they claim will all be under one roof. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we fear that it will be dark and opaque under this roof. The trade unions represented in the Economic and Social Council have narrowed their criticism of the law to five points, with which we fully agree. Firstly, the bill foresees the exhaustion of the current spending fund rather than focusing on the stability of the pension fund in a critical period that will take place in the next 20 years. Secondly, the law of the fund does not provide any new resources, but makes it entirely dependent on the profits of state-owned enterprises and on their privatisation. Thirdly, the law provides for the exhaustion of the fund for purposes unrelated to the pension system. Fourthly, all state assets concentrate under one roof, endangering both the management of this property and the stability of the pension system. Fifthly, the law gives all management levers to political parties and governments and does not ensure the involvement of stakeholders in social dialogue and other representatives of the public and the active generation. Instead of a demographic fund, they are expected to have a party's prey and, instead of independent and professional management, political influence. The long-term financing of the pension system would be replaced by simple spending. To be fair, all of this is the most similar issue of the young and the middle generation due to short-term political purchases. We are aware of how much expertise and knowledge is needed to create such a law. We are also aware of the complexity of the negotiations in all previous governments that wanted to complete the envisaged establishment of the Fund in 2012. Some Members in this Chamber know all these details well enough and once insisted that solutions should go in a certain direction, or the pension system would be compromised. Let me remind them if they have forgotten for themselves that today, with the support of this proposal, they themselves deviate from the principles which they have advocated a few months ago. The debate on this law will show whether they still represent the interests of today's and future pensioners, or whether the political impact of certain state-owned enterprises is enough to change their beliefs. In the Group of Social Democrats, we hold to the views we have adopted four years ago that we must form a separate, independent and transparent fund that will have a clear objective of strengthening the pension fund and for this appropriate asset structure. Linking the pension system to counter-exhaustion, the imprudent sale of state-owned enterprises is not the right path under a number of other system laws. The adoption of this law, especially if there are no significant changes in it, would mean that the management of state property would have returned 15 years ago, at a time when ministers and Members of Parliament used telephone calls to direct state-owned companies. However, the pension fund would leave this law unsecured and dependent only on contributions and budgets, which is a poor traveller for all who hope to be pension recipients in the next 20 years. Dear colleagues and colleagues, because of all the above, if there are no fundamental changes to the bill, we cannot, of course, turn our support to the Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre will be presented by Monika Gregorčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u124	Honorable representatives of the government! Dear Members and Members! At the October meeting, the National Assembly decided that the opposition proposal for a law on Slovenian demographic reserves was not suitable for further consideration. By completing its legislative path, it was possible for the National Assembly to begin its consideration of this government legislative proposal. In accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure, there will only be a general debate today, followed by two more detailed hearings at the Committee on Finance and perhaps a public presentation of opinions. In addition, the Act will also address the Economic and Social Council. All of this means that the solutions submitted are not definitive. And in the Modern Centre Party, we will insist that social dialogue is respected and that we also take into account all those proposals for solutions that will improve how state assets are managed. We support the basic concept of the bill in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, since it preserves the original objectives already regulated by the Slovenian State Holding. These are: concentrated management of strategic and important capital investments, compliance with the guidelines on good corporate governance practices and ensuring measures to strengthen integrity and accountability and to limit conflicts of interest, which we specifically requested in the SMC. In order to establish a demographic fund that will co-finance the growing needs of the pension fund, it is essential that we all agree. In Slovenia, every fourth Slovenian is over 65 years old and the pension system is far from sustainable. Unfortunately, pension security contributions paid do not provide sufficient funds to pay pensions; therefore, the lack of funds from the budget must be provided by the State. Following the example of other countries, the Republic of Slovenia also decided to set up its demographic reserve fund when adopting the 2012 transition pension reform and to establish a legal basis for its creation. In the mandate of the Cerara government, we have unfortunately failed in our efforts to harmonise the proposal for a law on the demographic fund. We have also worked constructively in the government under the leadership of Marjan Šarc to form a legal solution for the establishment of a demographic fund. He was prepared to some extent for a harmonised legislative proposal, but disagreements reoccurred between the parties of the then coalition, which prevented further consideration. We hope that this time the third attempt will be more successful in eight years, especially because the demographic funds in the Member States of the European Union are not new or rare elsewhere in the world. Demographic funds are a type of state-owned investment fund. They are set up to provide pre-financing at the pension fund during the period when its expenditure will be higher than its revenue. It is therefore not uncommon for the demographic fund, as proposed by this government, to be supported by the leading instigator of the so-called Constitutional Lok Coalition, economist Dr Jože P. Damian. And he sees it as meaningful and useful. In the Modern Centre Party, we will be committed within this government concept to transform this so-called reserve pension fund into a pure form of the state wealth fund. It is clear from the expectations and proposals of coalition partners that the Fund should also provide funds for family policy measures, the building of real estate for the elderly and the like. Also in the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that demographic policy is much broader and must address comprehensive areas, including long-term care, housing policy, youth policy, intergenerational cooperation, and policies that address brain drains related to education, job creation and youth and older mobility. Therefore, in the Group of the Parties of the Modern Centre, we will support the conclusion that this law is suitable for further consideration. In this place, however, we are also alert to our expectations and warnings. Since, normally, national wealth funds in other countries have additional sources of funding in addition to the primary source, it would be reasonable, in our view, to seek these additional resources and to enable the Fund to meet its mission more easily. We would also like operators with international experience to be acquired to manage the assets of the Fund. However, this will only be possible if the Fund has an appropriate remuneration policy. Once again, we wish to recall that the establishment of the National Demographic Fund must not be an excuse for not reforming our pension system in a timely manner. The fund is not a magic wand that will fully solve the pension problem. And a new pension reform will be needed sooner or later, as the White Paper on pensions also points out. We stress that the role of the reserve demographic fund can only be attributable to the fact that the pension scheme is partially and to a lesser extent burdensome by covering the difference between income and pension fund expenditure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Primož Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u126	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, good afternoon! Initially, it is necessary to pour pure wine, introductoryly it must be said that this demographic fund is not and cannot be a systemic solution for the long-term sustainability of the pension fund. Moreover, it cannot solve the problems of financing family policy and long-term care at all. The demographic fund itself will not improve the clairvoyant material position of current or future pensioners. The issue of the demographic fund in the first place concerns the political struggle to manage state assets. The government of Janez Janša by establishing a demographic fund does not save pensioners and families, but saves itself. It will ensure centralisation of control over ownership and management of as much as €8.6 billion of state assets through the concentration of state property. In parallel with the concentration of assets, the new para-national institution will concentrate on the power of management and bureaucracy through which the government of Janez Janša will subordinate itself to a new lever of power and through which it will be able to set up hearing staff and sell public property to the supervisory and administrative boards of Slovenian companies in the form of private capital. Two recent and extremely damaging decisions can teach us how the government of Janez Janša intends to manage state property. The government has turned on the green light to privatise the 49% share of Slovenske železnice – Freight Transport, which is one of the most profitable companies in the Slovenian Railway Group. The handover of half of EP Holding’s share will not serve the strategic interests of the Slovenian economy, but rather the private interests of the multinational corporation, which owns around €12 billion in funds and investments and which, in recent years, with the acquisition of former public thermal power plants and transport infrastructures in France, Poland and Slovakia, has accelerated the construction of a private energy and logistics empire that stretches across Central Europe. In addition, the Janševa government has taken the initiative to conclude an agreement between Slovenia and Hungary on the construction and management of the second track of the Divač-Koper railway. Because of the damaging decisions of the government of Janez Janša, one of the most important and expensive infrastructure projects in the country will thus become the hostage of the political and capital interests of Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban; the hostage of the associated economic elites. With the arrival of Orban's money, which we don't need at all, the project will cost 300 million euros more and Hungary will also be counting on a high profit of 2TKK. This profit will be provided by Slovenia with public taxes to be paid: Luka Koper, Slovenian Railways and our carriers. It will also have to contribute to the state budget, while Hungary will not – except for the initial investment – contribute anything. However, for 35 years she will co-owner of critical Slovenian infrastructure and thus gain a veto on all important decisions of 2TKK; in addition, she will receive another 30,000 square metres of land owned by Luke Koper. Such moves prove the inability of the Janša government to become anything other than an enforcer of foreign capital and political interests, which instead of the long-term development of Slovenian society cares only for its own self-preservation. There is no way that such a government can trust that it will operate economically or in the public interest with EUR 8.6 billion of state property. While the government will beat the chest with the establishment of a demographic fund, more than 12 thousand older people will still be desperate to receive overcrowded and human and financially malnourished homes of older citizens. More than 240 000 pensioners will still receive pensions below 600 euros. The fact is that the Fund’s public financial effects on the pension fund will be completely negligible. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance has regularly grown around a billion euros in deficits in recent years. Last year, the budget in the ZPIZ paid 965 million euros and this year's budget earmarked 1.15 billion for pensions. There is virtually no funding for long-term care currently in the budget, although at least EUR 300 million would be required for the system regime at annual level. We spend around €600 million of budget resources on family benefits and parental allowances at annual level. Together, this is about 2 billion budget commitments, and in 20 years this amount will double at least – to EUR 4 billion or more. All these obligations could not be covered by any domestic demographic fund. Slovenia is not Norway, which has the largest public pension fund in the world with more than EUR 900 billion of assets and can count on excessive profits in oil production. Even the problems mentioned above will not be solved by the demographic fund as envisioned by the current government. The government law does not provide for any accumulation period that would allow the accumulation and nobility of long-term assets, but provides for the immediate regular payment of funds for the purposes of family policy, long-term care and pensions: 40% of dividends and purchases paid to cover the obligations of ZPIZ, 10% of dividends for the construction of homes for the elderly and 10% of dividends for the financing of family policy. In the event of realistic projections, in 2040 the Fund would be able to pay around EUR 200 million to the pension fund, which is only around 8% of the expected deficit of the STIZ. The projections of Majcna and Sambta show that in 2040 the pension fund deficit will amount to EUR 2.4 billion. If it were the estimated 200 million euros that the fund would have paid into the pension fund in 20 years, in fact, for the additional net income of the pension fund, it would have dealt with a negligible amount, but that is not the case. The more state property or income we allocate to the fund, the less revenue the state budget will have, and just as little will be the budget obligations to cover the HIPC deficit. Basically, it's a neutral accounting operation or a transfer of money from one pocket to another. The budget will be waived by state capital investment dividends and left to the fund so that the fund can then relieve the budget with these funds. The Fund may be able to obtain additional funds from portfolio investments in global financial markets, but this will only be a sea lung when compared to the expected pension fund deficits. But as it is said, the key issue is not the impact of the demographic fund on the pension fund, but the impact of the fund on the ownership structure and management of the country's capital investments. In this regard, the government proposal does not bring us anything good, just new levers for the damaging privatisation of state property. The government law mentions only the division into strategic investments and non-strategic or portfolio investments with which the fund can freely dispose; however, there are no significant investments in which the state must maintain a 25 % plus 1 share under the current capital investment management strategy. Therefore, there is a reasonable risk that the current important investments will also deteriorate to portfolio level, which would mean that the fund would have a completely free hand in privatising companies such as Krka and Petrol. In addition, there is a provision in the law that allows the fund to reduce its share of strategic investments below 50% and to leave the pursuit of strategic objectives to concessionaires. In addition, they will be given new arguments for privatisation. Since the law provides that 40% of the purchase from the sale of state property is intended for STIZ, the government will always be able to say that privatisation is in the interest of pensioners because it provides additional funds for pension funds. All of these are not guidelines for management, but for the sale of public property. In addition, the demographic fund is designed to pursue profitability motives, strategic objectives and to take care of pensions and other social policies at the same time. These motives, however, are soon to come into conflict. This point is well illustrated by the example of Post Slovenia. Instead of providing postal services in the public interest to all citizens as a state-owned company, the Slovenian Post Office, on behalf of rationalising and hunting the profitability targets of the country's annual capital investment management plans, closed post offices across Slovenia, thus creating an even greater burden on employees. Due to the imposition of profitability criteria, the quality of postal services today is at the bottom. Post workers and workers are caught in a vicious cycle of low wages, raising standards, performing many overtimees and working in totally intolerable conditions. Last but not least, the legal determination of the composition of the organs is significant. The Assembly, as the main decision-making body of the demographic fund, is fully aligned with the government. According to Janša's Government, it is only by itself that it can manage state property, which is owned by all citizens. In addition, the government proposal simply overruns Lahovnik's law, which limits the remuneration of senior staff in state-owned companies, as well as the Law on the participation of workers in governance. The government of Janez Janša will thus have full control over virtually all state assets, and the leading staff of the demographic fund will be able to reward them for their service with unsavoury high wages. All those who have the greatest credit for the production of public wealth by the Janša government, i.e. workers, will be completely excluded from the administration of state property. Neither pensioners nor workers nor other citizens need a demographic fund, as Janša’s government had envisioned. In order to consolidate its power and control over state property, Janša alone needs it. We do not need Janša's government at all, so we will strongly oppose its proposal for a National Demographic Fund Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats will be presented by Joseph Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u128	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are more than ever in the history of the Slovenian state near the establishment of the National Demographic Fund. Why such an introduction? Allow some facts to refresh your memory. Almost eight years ago, in this National Assembly, we adopted the last pension reform, the so-called SPIZ-2. We were part of a coalition back then. But this is not so important; it is important that this pension reform of ZPIZ-2 has received a great deal of support in this National Assembly. The law entered into force on 1 January 2013. And this law states that by 2014 – by 2014 – a demographic reserve fund will be established. The Commission notes that, in the It's been six years since this law came into force, and nothing has happened. Six years is about 8% of the life expectancy of Slovenia or Slovenia. We've lost six years. Today I will not analyze why governments have not done so, were therefore capable or incapable of what was happening to the coalitions, it is not important. But what's important is we've lost six years. And that's why we're in the Coalition Treaty in II. a chapter entitled Youth, family, pensions, social affairs, very high, in second place, written down – Establishment of the Slovenian Demographic Pension Fund with its head office in Maribor. In Maribor, the second largest Slovenian city, Maribor. And we follow the principle of Pacta sunt servanda or in New Slovenia more domestically and more understandablely – the Word applies. That is why I say that we are closer to the establishment of the National Demographic Fund today than ever before in the 30-year history of the Slovenian State. Ladies and gentlemen, demographic change is causing our social and cultural order and changing our coexistence. There are fewer young people, and there are more and more older people. This means a great deal of pressure on intergenerational solidarity. Intergenerational solidarity, family support and cooperation between young and old are key tasks, are our key tasks. It's not fair to live at the expense of our children and their children. It is also unfair to live at the expense of fellow humans in other parts of the world. We advocate the global solidarity of the human community. The gap between the poor and the rich cannot be bridged; it is also impossible to preserve the environment. The life expectancy of the population is increasing, indicating improvements in the standard of living of the population and in the progress of medicine. The needs of people and their families will also change in the long-term society of the future. We want to create opportunities for the quality life of all generations and decent ageing. This requires a coordinated adaptation of labour market measures, lifelong learning, health and long-term care, social protection, the living environment and other areas. Traditional ties are becoming increasingly difficult to maintain, so we want to encourage this and help to find and develop new ones. People are becoming more mobile and social ties are changing. More and more activities are digital, and for this reason the connection with the country, our sense of community and our values are so important. Slovenia must be accessible for immigration to a qualified and necessary workforce. In addition to the professional qualifications and needs of our economy, the compatibility of the culture of immigrants with our Slovenian culture should be taken more into account in the future. We do not need immigration that overloads and burdens our social assistance systems. We must prevent the exploitation of the tax and social system, which causes discomfort and resistance between Slovenians. Immigrants should receive an adequate, fair, payment for honest work. The exploitation of the country must be stopped immediately. We want to prevent social tourism. Slovenia is one of the countries where the population is the fastest. The OECD and the European Commission remind us of the threat to long-term fiscal sustainability due to public consumption associated with ageing. The proportion of the elderly is increasing, and so are the costs of pensions and other ageing-related expenditure. The OECD foresees that by 2055 these expenditure will increase more than in most other European countries and therefore points out that the pension system must be prepared for the ageing of the population. We must respond to this great problem in different ways and address both the causes and the consequences of this situation. One of the consequences is certainly the issue of pension financing. Of course, the issue of pension financing is also affected by slightly more fundamental aspects, such as the issue of productivity, where we still have a lot of reserves in Slovenia. The more productive we are, the easier it will be to fund our pensions. In New Slovenia, in our pension system modernisation programme, we have been warning for a number of years that an investment model will need to be introduced gradually in addition to the existing transitional pension model. If the funds are loaded, they are also noble; and if they are noble, we will have more resources. In the situation in which we are in this moment, the coalition in which Nova Slovenije participates is working with a special sense for the elderly. In addition to building homes for the elderly after many years, we have greatly helped pensioners in various ways. Let me just remind you of the extraordinary reconciliation of pensions by 2%, which will take place this month, totalling around €94 million. Let me remind you of the regular annual reconciliation of pensions by 3.2%, totalling around EUR 172 million. Let me remind you of the solidarity-based anti-Korona allowance for all pensioners with lower pensions, which has already been paid, about 67 million euros. And let me remind you of the regular annual pension allowance of € 139 million. In addition to regular pensions of €472 million, this year we will receive payments for pensioners. In addition, a new solidarity allowance for pensioners with lower pensions will be announced, which PKP7 will bring, we can expect to pay everyone in addition to regular pensions for a good half billion euros. This is the work of this coalition, unfortunately not the entire National Assembly. Nevertheless, for years we have been facing the problem of the deficit of the pension fund. This figure is about one billion euros a year. The budget balance for this year provides for an additional €1 billion of €155 million 667 000 728 from the pension budget this year. Therefore, it seems reasonable for us to transfer the entire property of our country to one roof and help to finance the pension fund. For most of this property has been created by those who are now receiving pensions for decades. However, it is extremely important for Christian Democrats that we have also introduced a provision in the draft law that funds are also allocated from the Fund to family policy. The allocation of funds to the pension issue only brings the consequences of the demographic crisis to an end. It is important for us to help address the causes of the demographic crisis. We are aware that only family policy measures alone cannot increase the number of births, but a country with a more favourable environment can make life easier for a couple. In the proposed law, it is also extremely important to define whose investments are strategic. Christian Democrats, as before, stand in the position that the country must carry out its tasks, which certainly does not include entrepreneurship on the market. We advocate that the country retains the majority ownership of strategic companies in the field of transport, transport and logistics infrastructure and the electricity system. It will be welcome to refresh the memory of why Slovenian Demos created this country 30 years ago. We stress, however, that according to the bill, the Fund's list of strategic investments will be drawn up by the Ministry of Finance and can also be made available on a proposal from the Fund; on this basis, the Government will send the proposal to the National Assembly for confirmation. The final word on which investments will be defined as strategic will therefore end up with this national assembly, which is right. The National Demographic Fund is a fund for all Slovenian generations, so the Nova Slovenija Group will also support it. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not plant flowers, let's not make illusions. The National Demographic Fund will not save Slovenian pensions. We need about €5 billion and €800 million for these in global terms this year. A simple calculation shows that if we want to provide only 3% of the national demographic fund, i.e. EUR 5.8 billion, that is about 175 million, the return or, rather, the annual dividends of the National Demographic Fund should be around EUR 440 million. This will be a major challenge for the management of the National Demographic Fund. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Party Alenka Bratušek will be presented by Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, chairman. Your Honor! In the SAB, we are also committed to establishing a demographic fund, but one that would actually ensure the long-term stability of the pension fund and that would really solve the demographic challenges of an ageing society. For us, four points are crucial in the adoption and design of the fund: the assets of the fund remain owned by the State; the fund is managed only; the funds of the fund are intended only for pensions; the funds of the fund are accumulated at least 20 years before the start of use. The fund is provided with an additional source – money from water use. The law before us today does not include any of the key solutions proposed by the SAB to provide long-term pension funds. The design of a demographic fund based on the idea of the largest government party represents only a tendency to dismantle the current state property management system. This proposal opens the door wide for political control of state property, allowing for the replacement of all sets of supervisors of state-owned enterprises. It also opens the door for uncontrolled privatisation and sale of the strategic economy. It also opens the door wide for corruption risks as it deletes all safeguards that separate the management of state property from policy and corruption risks and which are also recommended by the OECD. In the SAB, we strongly oppose such a form of law that, with one move, transfers the entire state property under one roof, thus allowing for the sale of the property of citizens and citizens. State property must remain in the hands of the State. However, the fund should be filled only with revenue from the management of this asset. , In the SAB we also oppose this law because it does not guarantee the long-term stability of the pension fund. In contrast, the use of resources for various purposes is completely flawed and deep in contrast to the context and purpose of the demographic fund. The fund should have accumulated funds for at least 20 years. The Fund may, however, be used exclusively for pensions. Decommissioning for other purposes means direct poverty of resources to cover the pensions of future generations of pensioners in 30, 40, 50 years. The bill does not provide for the additional resources of the fund that such fund needs, at least that is the practice in the world. In the SAB, we propose that we also provide water funds for this fund. We are confident that water will become increasingly valuable in the future, so it is right to draw funds from this natural resource to fund it. In the SAB, as in the profession, we do not recognize the design of the law as useful, but rather as harmful both to the state and to trust in the pension fund and its long-term stability. In the SAB Group, we believe that the law is totally inappropriate for further consideration, so we will vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. Igor Peček has the word. Let's get the mags ready. Bojana Mursich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Mr Secretary of State! The establishment of a demographic fund, one that would burden the public cash register in the long term, is certainly necessary. Even today, even in a few ten years' time, the pension box will be under even greater pressure, especially how to ensure the different resources and sustainability of these resources to finance the rights of compulsory pension and disability insurance. After all, we have been reminded of this for some time by the European Commission and other international organisations. The OECD recommendation has been quite something and reports of the European Semester have been similar for several years. The fact is that the Slovenian pension system operates according to the principle from hand to mouth. The pension received by the future pensioner is not the result of his payments to the pension account, but it is only after the end of the working period, after it can benefit, that payments are applied immediately to those pensioners who receive the pension already. The pension scheme has been indisposed for some time now, the pension security contributions paid do not provide sufficient funds for the payment of pensions, and manko must be provided by the state through the state budget. We have heard that more than 1.1 billion euros will be allocated this year. The proposal that we are considering today personally see only as an attempt to concentrate the ownership and management of most of the country's capital investments in a national fund that would co-finance the pension fund, build dedicated properties for the elderly and for family policy measures. All with different shares. The very last one, however, is asking me a number of questions that I think are very important right now. Will the Republic of Slovenia really lose its credit rating by transferring ownership of state property to the demographic fund, as some have predicted? Here I am thinking mainly of questioning the reaction of international creditors, from whom we are already borrowing money from each other; also with the promise that the Republic of Slovenia has sufficient investment to pay these liabilities. Will this also increase funding costs and limit or aggravate access to financial markets? Will competitiveness and productivity, which has a direct impact on gross domestic product, be reduced? I would really like to ask you here, Mr Secretary of State, if you could at least comment on these questions in part. The concentration of all the state's assets in one place, with some exceptions, seems problematic to me from the point of view of governance and from the point of view of sensefulness and appropriateness with regard to the returns we are expecting. I have to be honest, my personal logic about managing my own capital is relatively simple. But this logic of mine is failing here. Although I do believe that if only you manage your own capital, but only to a certain extent. Once your capital is so dispersed, the sense and knowledge that I can use to manage my capital investments is used differently. The receptions that were valid yesterday are no longer valid. Here I am thinking mainly of the fact that companies with which we will operate are operating in different activities. The business management strategy depends on the activities in which the companies are located. The market and management strategies of companies carrying out different activities are also not the same. It is true that the concentration of management can reduce management costs to a certain extent, but currently lower management costs do not ensure that this management is sufficiently effective. In my view, the purpose of the demographic fund will have to be, in particular, the long-term sustainability of the pension system, but not family policy and long-term care. Resources for the implementation of the last two policies should be found elsewhere. In addition to management, I see an additional problem in the supervisory function and the composition of the Supervisory Board, which, as a result, provides for a supervisory function. I believe that the fund should be independent, which, after the proposal has been submitted, will still be limited to the existing strategy for the management of state property; it should be politically independent, but look, in the role of the Assembly of the Government, and we will be responsible for the members of the Supervisory Board, or they will be responsible in the National Assembly. I would not like to point out or comment on the dialogue with the Economic and Social Council. I think I know too little at this point about how this dialogue has taken place. When an agreement is good, I have learned with simple logic that it is successful when any party wishing to make an agreement denies something. I'm sorry I didn't catch that. And in view of the Commission's comments to prevent corruption, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, trade unions, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, this is another government proposal, regrettably for which there was no appropriate dialogue with important partners. This is a proposal that I think is going in the wrong direction, so I cannot personally support such a proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Bojana Mursich. Let's get the mags ready. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Vice President, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The demographic situation is changing, especially in the coming years, and this imbalance between employees and pensioners will increase, thus reducing the working population and increasing the number of pensioners. Although we have heard today that the magic wand is to have more newborns who will ultimately give a demographic solution. Yes, that is also acceptable, but in this place it is necessary to say that newborn children must receive a good education, they must gain a good job with a good salary; and only then will we be able to cover these losses. Otherwise, we will have poor people in Slovenia. That is why it is so important that we also think about the demographic picture in the future. As the solidarity system applies in Slovenia and the working population must provide funds for pensions and other social and health expenditure, the need to establish a demographic fund is more than necessary, as we have already demonstrated in the opposition by our introduction of a bill, which has unfortunately been rejected. Today, the budget already covers the PSI deficit of more than one billion. Over the years, this is projected to be more than 3 – 3.5 billion, which means that if we do not establish a demographic fund, pensions will become a huge burden of the budget. But there's another problem with pensions. Pensions are too low today. The saddest part is that a person who has worked for 40 years and invested in this system of ours when he comes into retirement does not get even enough pension to cover his minimum cost of living. And where are the solutions? Solutions are in wage hikes. Those who go to retirement with a minimum wage today are extremely low; and this is indeed an exhilarating concern and will have to do much more in the coming years than has been done to date. And yes, pensions have to be raised to the level of a decent life. Because when you look at these pensions, when the pensioners come to you, they show you, I have to tell you that you get really big eyes, and how to help them. We're here to help them solve this situation. And part of that is the establishment of a demographic fund. And it is our responsibility that generations after us will receive a man of decent pensions. As I have already mentioned, we have drafted a law in the opposition, which the existing coalition has rejected under the pretext that their proposal will be better and more appropriate. But the proposal we are considering today is far from more appropriate, which we are reminded of by quite a number of institutions, including the Anti-Corruption Commission. In addition, they point out that there was no coordination with the social partners, and the proposal for a public debate was not in line with the Resolution of the National Assembly on Regulatory Activities. They even state from trade unions that the law has been dealt with in the Economic and Social Council, but, look at the fraction, the government has not been prepared to change any of the fundamental conceptual solutions. It's really sad. In such an important law, which should achieve the widest possible social consensus, it is forced through the wall with its head. A demographic fund must be established to relieve the public pension fund in the long term and the pressure on pension expenditure. This proposal that we have on the table today is opposed by a majority who, of course, is aware of what lies ahead for all of us in the future. The following key points are also controversial: the resources from the demographic fund will also be used for current consumption and only part of the funds would be accumulated. In our proposal, which you rejected in October, this was significantly better. All funds have been accumulated and fertilisation occurred during the 20-year period. If the funds to be used for the demographic fund are used for current consumption, how can we ensure a more stable pension system?Oh, my God! After 20 years, where are we? It's a good start. The law does not provide for any new resources, which we have even heard in our position today; nor does it call on the coalition partner to seek new resources from the government, which I must say is commendable. Because I believe that it is necessary to anticipate how much capital investment there will be to ensure the stability of the pension system. This bill also provides for expenditure to finance family policy measures. I don't know who remembered getting married. This is not part of the demographic fund. This is an urgent policy which must be provided in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia today. On the other hand, we also have expenses or expenses for long - term care. These resources must also be elsewhere or in the law and consequently in the budget, which we have agreed for so long that I do not know if I will wait for it myself, but this law on long-term care, and I am pretty much in the younger generation. The concentration of assets in one place is also a major corrupt risk, which the Commission is also reminding us of to prevent corruption. Nor does the management controls given to political parties and governments ensure the involvement of representatives of the active population for whom the social security of the age should be targeted by the demographic fund. I absolutely think that the proposal that we have made in the opposition, which has also been rejected, is significantly better and can be made with individuals, including your proposals to improve and put into certain frameworks, so that this proposal can also be improved. But what we have on the table today is absolutely, with no proposal, with any matter at all, the amendment cannot be fixed that we will also support this demographic fund. I believe that it is only a separate, independent and transparent fund with a clear objective of strengthening the pension fund, with the appropriate structure of the property path, that sufficient funds will be provided for pensions in the future. To conclude, we have also heard what has been done for the pensioners in these eight months. Yeah, all that's right, and it's also right to help pensioners. There is much good that has been done, and there is no way to overlook it, but the government has also done a great deal of debt during this period, and the bag is empty. The purpose of this demographic fund is to keep the bag full, to accumulate and that after twenty years we can all be satisfied when we have pensions; not just pensions, but also decent pensions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Andrei Reich. Get Jože Lenart ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Dear Secretary of State, fellow Members and fellow Members! Indeed, Slovenia is an ageing society and the challenges with an ageing society are linked to the health system, the long-term care system and also to the stability of the pension system. The OECD recommendations clearly state that if we want to address all these issues in an integrated and substantive manner in Slovenia, we will have to adopt certain structural reforms. This means that young people will have to enter the labour market a few years earlier than now and also older people will have to get out of the labour market a few years later than they are now. The demographic fund proposal ahead of us today somehow does not follow these requirements and recommendations. If we look only at the health sector, we know that the generation gap – I will say so – will increase the cost of treatment. We know that the population is getting older, the cost of treatment is rising, and the cost of treatment is also rising due to more expensive and effective treatment methods. So this means that we will need more resources in the health treasury. This means that the active population will have to pay more for the health system in order to preserve existing rights. However, if we are to extend and improve existing rights, we will have to substantially increase our contributions to healthcare. Long-term care is also a particular challenge. According to current estimates, at least €300 million per year should be allocated to deal effectively with long-term supply problems. As for the pension gap, it's not really worth losing words. Already this pension gap, i.e. the difference between payments and payments to the pension fund, amounts to about a billion euros. And every financial crisis this gap only deepens. Population ageing also increases income and expenditure only. The proposal of the demographic fund, as we have seen, assumes that this fund will begin to draw on, that is to say, empty, without an adequate accumulation period. This means that it will start to empty before sufficient assets can be accumulated to address the problem of at least one of these cash registers. You and the law before us are trying to solve more problems, and I have just told you what amounts are needed to solve these problems. And the way you're doing it, it's not really addressing any of these. Once again, the way the government is dealing with these problems is not a problem. It does not solve any problem, only enables and pushes the way for the early sale of our assets; and this also comes from the proposal. In the SAB party, of course, we object. We oppose this because it does not guarantee the security of existing and future generations; we oppose because it does not include the necessary additional resources to stabilise the financing of this fund and pensions. The OECD also proposes in its guidelines that we should find stable sources of funding for the pension fund. And this Fund does not follow these proposals and these recommendations from international organisations. And if someone thinks that within ten years he's going to be able to spend it, spend it to solve short-term problems, and somehow ignorant indirectly says that he's not interested in problems in 20 years, I don't think that's the right way. The ownership and transfer of administrative rights and obligations are also high risks. As we know, certain state-owned enterprises are burdened by credit, they are burdened by international guarantee contracts. And it's just that to transfer a company from one small to another, but it doesn't even ask how the lenders, i.e. creditors, will react to that. We know how they will react; they will encourage interest rates, which will cause even greater hardship in the country. However, once again, this law does not follow that we may have stable pensions in the future; this law does not pursue the goal that the young, active generation that pays into the pension box should have confidence in it; this law only pushes the way towards early privatisation of the last property we have in Slovenia. And that is why I find the proposal of the law unacceptable to us and to all of us in the party Sab and we will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The word is Jože Lenart. Get Jani Prednik ready. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! By adopting this law that we have before us today, of course, we bear great responsibility for our future. This is a fact, and we must be careful that we do not start with just setting up and then close our future, which, of course, we expect in later years to be able to live for our craftsmen. The management of state property today is based on this great fragmentation, irrational management, which is, of course, a necessity for rationalisation in the National Demographic Fund. This is certainly what we agree with in the List of Marjana Sarca, and in this respect our proposal was similar. Of course, this is a very important path that we are going to follow, how we are going to set it up, what security is, of course, for our future by this law, which is the essence that we are talking about today. What have we had so far? We went through the Court, AUKN, we don't even know that today, Kad, DSU, DUTB. Most of this property is still in the Slovenian State Holding and as I look at this list today, there are 77 of these companies. And when I fly over this list, I'm sorry, colleagues and colleagues, my head hurts. On this list, more than a third of the companies in bankruptcy are winding down. But when I looked and also from my practice, I know a lot of companies, because these procedures were long overdue, of course there is no more on this list. Are we aware of how much of this property of our country we have practically lost through this system through which we have led them?Oh, my God! Even in a bank hole, it's part of that reflection. Why am I saying this? This is our responsibility, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we must be very careful about what we are going to do, how we will protect this area so that we can have something from this tomorrow. If I go any further, what's the practice in the world? I have here one study that was actually done in the National Assembly, in our Research Department. This year's story or a recent one. In the past and this century many other countries have set up state wealth funds, and they have become important institutional investors. The value of public wealth funds on a global scale was $7.5 trillion at the end of 2017, summed up in 24 countries where they are somehow well divided or well managed and are somehow covered in this study. I learned more about what they have in Australia, what they have in France, what they have in Japan. But the important thing is, it's a tradition of their safe treatment of these pension funds. This fund was established in Australia in 2006. In France already 1947, which was then changed in 1961 and finally in 2001, of course in line with the new situation. Japan – 2006, Norway – 2001. Poland is also in this study, which can also be compared due to those countries to which we can compare in 1999. And of course, the United States of America is very famous, where they founded such a fund in 1940. This is said to be a strong tradition and, above all, it is based on good protection, corporate governance and that is the essence. Because if you screw this up, then you've lost everything. This list of companies, which I mentioned earlier, is practically only 20 other companies that have some valuable assets; and that is all that Slovenia has, the two million people. And we really need to keep it that way. From this review of the legal arrangements of these other funds in these countries and the functioning of the public reserve pension funds in neighbouring countries, there are both similarities and differences in their role in state public pension schemes, in their financing, operations, management and use of their funds, which are, of course, very well illustrated in these analyses. I am very interested, the drafter of this bill, in how many have followed these practices. Surely you can't just transfer a system from another country because we're specific, that's a fact, but from each country you can handle something and learn something about what happened to them and where the problems they had through it are. In particular, long-term reliability and strength are reflected in practice. The deposits are based on these capital injections, combined with other sources, notably savings, insurance that has this tradition in these countries. And this is also in this proposal, which was also made in the LMŠ and proposed at the time, which is based on this combination. Without it, we can't build in the long run. It is very important how other countries save. Everyone has this problem, they face an ageing society, and we all have this demographic problem, we all face it. But the most important thing — if we look at it this way — is that it is based on new jobs. That's the greatest security. If we look at this data, in 2013 we were able to cover barely a good 60% of our pensions, as they say, from hand to mouth. That's what we've created, how much we give for pensions. This was also the time of the biggest crisis in 2008, and this is then visible. If unemployment increases, if wages fall, if we go back to the added value, GDP in relation to the average of the European Union, then it is reflected that, of course, new resources need to be sought and this is not covered. In 2019, however, we already exceeded 80%. What is one good governance of a country, growth of the economy and then it covers itself. That's what we have to build on. We need to build on the fact that our young people will not go elsewhere, stay at home and fill the jobs we lack, and then we know how to attract people from other countries, especially our former republics, to come to us and fill these jobs. This is also what the European countries are doing, as in the end the migration problem has also emerged from this. Since it's not a growing society in the rear, and if you want to follow this growth, you also have to provide the workforce. That's probably the most important thing. If we go to the end of the proposal that we have on the table today. It certainly does not guarantee this political independence, which virtually everyone in the opposition parties has been alerted to today. This is what the Commission is reminding us of to prevent corruption. If we read the Commission's response to this law to prevent corruption, then we can just close and stop. For if we support here today, what I have made clear to myself and in the List of Marjan Šarc, if we support it, we are responsible for such a law where I fear it will lead to further failure, which has happened to us historically; and we must not allow it. This is said to completely eliminate everything the Commission has warned about to prevent corruption; not just her, I will not even point to other matters, because of course they are somehow identical. Until this is resolved, this bill cannot go into further discussion, by no means. And if I conclude, I do not trust this government, which has made such a proposal, for a simple reason, because there have been too many derogations, violations of legislation, violations even of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. There is no trust here, and in this way, until the anti-corruption commission gives us some kind of green light in this direction, then we certainly cannot support such a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The word is Gregor Perich. Get ready to land Sitter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u140	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I am pleased that we have before us a proposal for a law on the table, which promises to have some relatively serious support in the National Assembly for a long time. We know that the entire professional public has somehow been dealing with this issue for the past eight years, and I think we have not come this far yet. I hope that this process will also go further and further together, because I would like to see that this is a broad project that captures a wide range of different stakeholders, including those who may be skeptical or critical at the moment, whether they are public organisations, whether they are political parties, trade unions or anyone else. This is an important project, as has been said, where other governments have been working, which have been left-handed; and we have unfortunately not been able to come forward more than some less or more in-depth discussions. Let us be clear, even in the government we led in the SMC, a lot of energy and effort was invested in this project, but in the end that sufficient political consensus or support was lacking. And there was nothing else then further, in the previous government led by Mr Šarec; we talked a lot about this, and there was much less of this agreement. Today I am listening to the views of political parties and I feel that this consensus on what we want to achieve is even less. Recently, we were dealing with one proposal that came from the opposition's work, namely by SD and SAB, not even the entire KUL coalition, I think it was not there at the time, and there were some aspects of the law that I had already commented on in that debate. In fact, we need to decide what we really want; and not just that, then we need to take it away. And I think we're stuck at this exact point when we need to pull this off. If you want to give different structures that are now in operation and which manage Slovenian state property to a common denominator, this also means certain adaptations and certain subordinations. Some now have more freedom, more options for making decisions, which in this proposal, which is now on the table, would be inappropriate, which is understandable to me to generate certain dissatisfactions or then change relationships. It seems to me that the final moment is to take some step forward in order to allow less pressure on public finances from the pension fund, to provide some additional pension funds to be dignified; and that, at the same time, if we are talking about a demographic fund, it also provides some other services or other infrastructure, including investments in building properties that are intended for the care of the elderly, as well as only family policy. If we're talking about a demographic fund, it's a slightly broader view than if we were talking only about a pension fund, even though we're talking about an investment fund. However, something needs to be made clear to the public that by setting up a fund, one such as pension or demographic, this will not be known tomorrow. It takes quite a while to invest in the funds so that they can become familiar with the pensions themselves. It is a shame that this was not done 10, 20, or even 30 years ago, because today we could be harvesting fruit, and so today we must work for tomorrow. We have a bunch of demographic challenges. Those who deal with this a little bit more deeply will find that this is a problem that many developed European countries face when life expectancy on the one hand is increasing and, on the other hand, fertility is falling. We have recently seen one case where, say Germany, this problem, which it has mainly in terms of the functioning of the economy, because it needs an active labour force, has solved in this way that migration has been used. Perhaps in some awkward and seductive way, which then caused a number of other problems for the European Union, but this is also one of the ways, say with migration, with some controlled migrations, how can we face this problem that we have. But we can choose another direction. Above all, this direction, at least in my opinion, is one that brings exactly the positive effects in the long term, so that we actively pursue some family policies that will enable Slovenian youth to give in to the creation of families, that they have as many children as possible, who can then also be educated and given a high-quality job, and that they are also a driver of our economy. But the worst part is that we're confused here and that then our best shot is leaking abroad because we've done some great damage here. In short, it's really not worth it. The challenges ahead are very large and the management of state property is just one smaller segment. If I focus a little more on the very functioning of the demographic fund, in particular in this sense I see some simplified governance structure, because we give a bunch of some portfolios that are now kind of scattered, such as the investments of the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance at the Triglav Insurance and Real Estate Fund, then we talk about the DUTB, i.e. the Company for the Management of Bank Claims, i.e. the Bad Bank, then the Capital Company, called Kad, with the Blue Insurance, then the Society for Consulting and Management, the Society for Forests, is called Holding Kobiliárna Lipica; a bunch of players, one bunch of entities that are now more or less coordinated. This is where these things need to be put on a common denominator and some first step has already been taken in the government of SMC when the Country Capital Investment Management Strategy was adopted. This was, if I may put it this way, some constitution for SDH, which then had some criteria, criteria, some guidance on how to manage that portfolio. I see these efforts today as one additional step forward in this direction, which includes not only SDH, but a number of other investments. We are creating a new, permanent and stable source for the Institute of Pension and Disability Insurance, which we know is that what an active population, i.e. an employed population, pays through contributions, is not enough for those who are already retired to receive pensions. And that's why we have to add a good billion a year from the budget, and this billion is what it is this year. Over a certain period of time, let's say in 2060, it is estimated that 2.6 billion will have to be added and we need to find a solution here. As it is said, the demographic fund is not the only solution, it is one of the steps, as we said in the SMC, not a magic wand, it will have to make some effort. We see this effort primarily in order to do our utmost to increase the productivity of our economy, to increase GDP and to increase the number or size of the active population. And at some point a pension reform will probably be necessary, but if we do all the steps I've counted, and probably some other, there will also be a pension reform, because at some point we will have to do it, such that it will be much nicer to its users than if we do not take all these steps. This seems important to me, and I would also like to point out the following, particularly in the sense of a broader reflection. Today we have already heard that Slovenia is not Norway, we do not have the oil fund Norway has. I am sure that even if we discovered a huge oil reservoir in Slovenia, we would find someone who would actively oppose it to draw on this raw material, as we hear active opposition to the exploitation of such and other natural, even renewable resources. Finally, we would have nothing, especially because it is fossil fuels, which we know to be a serious environmental challenge. On many occasions, I think we are the biggest problem for ourselves in finding answers to the greatest challenges. This challenge, which we are addressing today with the National Demographic Fund, is very important because it speaks about how we will manage our national assets. What seems positive and worthwhile to me, however, is that so far — at least as far as I have looked at this equation — it has not been clearly defined in the management of the demographic fund or in any other form that, in particular, representatives of the population who are no longer active, i.e. people who are retired, as well as representatives of young people, i.e. those who may not yet work or are at the beginning of their career path, are involved. In this sense, the word in the supervisory board was given to both the representative of one and the representative of another group of people, who, I think, are crucial in this sense, because young people will be holding pensions in the future that will provide pension money for that population that no longer works but enjoys the fruits of the work done so far. Therefore, I think it is important, good and commendable that the representatives of both groups of people are involved in this structure, because I expect you to have a lot to say as well. In particular, my expectations are great to young people, so that the needs of young people can be articulated, as we see if we will look at this problem in full, then we can count on someone in Slovenia to work, create, increase productivity and increase GDP in the future, because otherwise all these efforts are in vain. For young people to be active, however, they also need housing and some quality jobs. As it is said, if we set up this system in some smart way, the demographic fund will also be able to further develop and have such a policy of investment and development in the sense that things will move forward. Otherwise, we will make another Slovenian story, which is a shame. I think that the greatest risk we are taking today is that we are constantly overplaying different solutions and ultimately there is no decision that would move us from a dead point forward. I'll support all these efforts. It's actually the first reading. I believe that at the time of the third reading there will be many other possibilities and opportunities for views, which are also different from those enshrined in this law, to be further considered, assessed and complemented. We do not have these problems in the SMC, so I look forward to the current and all future hearings, so that we can reach the end of some broad consensus and establish as soon as possible not only the National Demographic Fund, but also to direct all our energy and responsibility that voters and voters have committed to us, in order to work in the direction that I have already outlined, to raise productivity, to increase GDP and, ultimately, to increase the active population, because all of this will help to make all of the needs that we have in social, health and many other areas much easier to achieve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter. And he's going to be discussed by Andre Zabret. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, good day again! When we talk about the demographic fund and the importance of regulating this area, we must first define what our main problems are. One of our main problems is, of course, the ageing of the population, which we deal with in a long and broad way, and we stress this several times. The problem is that the number of pensioners who are entitled to the pension allowance increases so that the number of people waiting for a bed in the homes for the elderly increases, that we are now at 12,000 plus. Above all, we hear from the Members and Members on the right that we have a problem with low birthrates; and this is all possible, we can understand, indeed. But let us ask ourselves why we have come to this point where in our society this is so strongly emphasized. No government has so far formulated a clear strategy to address these problems. In our own words, they have been trampling on something — we will make a law on long - term care, and we will settle the matter in one way or another. The pension box office is getting more and more burdened. One of the main crosses of Slovenian politics so far was, especially at the last point of birthity, understanding family policy exclusively through this issue of nativity. We have a poor family policy because you girls don't have enough; without an in-depth or widespread understanding of what family policy is. To start where the state has to provide enough, say, non-profit housing; to the point where you are paid to plan life and work in the long run, to have a life and a job in the country at all. And why do we have such a bad demographic and family picture in the country? Because it's not worth living in this country, one young couple or one young boy, one young girl. That is why such an outflow, such a brain drain and the outflow of young people abroad, is because they are looking for better living conditions because we are not talking about science fiction. And the poor conditions for the development of life policy or for the lives of people in Slovenia are here because politics has not done so far, has not adopted any concrete solution, with some bright exceptions, has offered no solution to change things. And, as Albert Einstein says, the biggest nonsense is to do the same things and to think we'll get a different result. The thought that applies most to what we have on the table today – let us save the country, let us save state property, let us save young, old and all in order, so that we sell more state property. This is a story drawn from independence to today; and the government's proposal for this demographic fund is essentially only pursuing this objective. This time, under the pretext of caring for pensioners or caring for a sustainable pension fund. We are used by this government to smoke curtains, we are used to serving such or other sugars to make specific things happen in the subtitle; and I see two scenarios in this particular proposal. The demographic fund, as the law says, transforms the management of state property in order to be more favourable to the pension fund. It's that smoke screen that's that first pierre. The subtitle, small print or the real substance and core of the message is, and what is clear to all readers of this law, first of all, is that it is a matter of reshaping the management of state property. It is not true, however, that the main interest or main objective of this is to be kind to the pension fund. With a little historical memory in the previous governments of John Janša – and without an exaggerated historical view, but only looking into the current situation – we see that whenever the government of Janez Janša is at the trough, it is intertwined with him like a pig with fur to deal with sales and corruption and thus to form a cooperative. Now the government of Janez Janša intends to seize the entire pension fund, EUR 8.6 billion, and do whatever it takes to do with it. And citizens and citizens are expected to believe that we will now come to a second result with the same methods. With what we have seen so far, we will now believe that it will be good for both pension and family policy challenges. It is a subtitle – mixing with social property. A clear objective, as I have already stated in the position of the Group of Members, is not the impact of the demographic fund on the pension fund; the key question that we must ask ourselves, whether we will confirm or reject, is the impact of the Fund on the ownership structure and the influence and management of the country's capital investments. The government proposal that we have on the table in this regard does not in fact bring any good, only new harmful levers for the management of state property or for state privatisation, the privatisation of state property, we will say. One of the main problems is the technical nature. The government law lists the division into strategic investments, the non-strategic investments with which the fund can freely dispose, but does not mention any significant investments in which the State must maintain a 25 % plus one share under the current capital investment management strategy. So, in a way, the country's pretty good. There is a risk that the investment we know so far will deteriorate to portfolio level, which would mean that the Free Hand Fund would have no serious responsibility in privatising Petrol and Krk companies. And there have been such sad privatisation stories with large companies in the past. Only worse stories would be witnessed by unbundling the deadlines of such a fund. And then profitability is such an important factor, the profitability of the demographic fund. The demographic fund is designed to pursue different objectives, i.e. strategic objectives, to provide for pensions and other social policies, and this is a very important goal of profitability. But it's always going to cross. See, once again, for example, the Post of Slovenia, which has this profitability factor so violently, brutally every time and more intensively integrated into its business and into its strategic goals and annual goals. Who's suffering? However, mailmen and workers are suffering at the window and suffer from a postal service which is a public service and which should absolutely be provided to every citizen and citizen. This objective, however, cannot now be fully implemented at the expense of profitability. In short, from this title, that the demographic fund, as proposed, is primarily about decommissioning the deadlines for all those involved in the process of further brutal privatisation of public property, we cannot support such a measure from this title in Levica or such a proposal. In terms of long-term sustainability, we believe that a much more effective measure is to raise the contribution rates for pension and disability insurance for employers. If, in line with the 2018 commitment, they had introduced a four-fold increase in employers' contributions to the insurance by 0.8% of the point in the next four years, they would have already received an additional EUR 400 million in 2024 to cover the PSIZ deficit. And in this case, it would actually go for EUR 400 million of net net revenue from the country. In this case, it is incomparably higher sums than we can expect from the demographic fund proposed by the Government, which, once again, I would like to point out in closing, a hand-to-heart, only a new platform for additional government budget exhaustion, to cover the curves for easier privatisation, to facilitate the sale of social property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Andre Zabret has the word, and she's going to be discussed by the mag. Elena Zavadav Ushaj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u144	Thank you for your word, Vice President. If we ask ourselves why we need the demographic fund first. In 1996, an agreement was concluded to reduce contributions with pension and disability insurance for employers. At that time, the state budget committed itself to covering all the differences that we do not collect with the contributions themselves. On average, we collect around – of course, everything depends on economic activity – 4 billion contributions that go to STIZ. Approximately a billion, including up to a billion 300, may even cover more of the budget it provides in the PIZ. We all know that much has already been heard today to face negative demographic trends, that every fourth Slovenian is over 65 years old and that in 2050 we will be the oldest population on a global scale. This is certainly not a good projection and it is also a fact that with this system that we now have, we raise too little money for pensions, not just for pensions, but also for decent pensions. One way to get higher pensions is to increase income. There are two options. Whether we go to higher levels of wage taxation, which is probably not meaningful, as the OECD already reminds us, we are also threatening the competitiveness of our companies. The second option is to increase the proportion of the budget to cover a greater difference, but there is also no good option here, thus jeopardising the stability of public finances. So, if we look at it all together, the fact that we need the Demographic Fund, which is far away, is not going to fully relieve the resources provided by the budget, nor will it raise pensions, so we also need other additional measures. The basic principles of the Demographic Fund for the establishment and management are: profitability, security of investments, liquidity, dispersion and independence. This law that we have before us today, which we are discussing, does not take this into account in any way. This is pointed out by many institutions, especially the Commission's supervisory opinion on preventing corruption, which has made serious comments on this law. If we want to achieve these goals, which should be pursued by the demographic fund anywhere, not only by the demographic fund in Slovenia, we would not be able to avoid the principle that the fund has the function of nobility and that it should invest in foreign securities, including capital shares and manage portfolio investments. The demographic fund will start with some assets once it's established. In view of all demographic trends, these resources need to be noble. However, we can nominate them with smart investment policy, which will not be limited to the domestic market alone. This is why this proposal, which we have on the table today, when the Government gives virtually all the companies that the state still owns under the same roof, is not a good solution from a few basic issues. Some of these companies are strategic, important, portfolio companies, meaning that different policies apply to different companies. Which means that some companies can be sold, some can't. In addition, these companies, which are included in the demographic fund, carry out very different activities and there is no way that all companies can be treated equally or expected to receive such a return from all companies. Let's just say, if we're looking at Mail Slovenia, we can't possibly expect such companies to be so big or whatever returns the Government is expecting for this demographic fund. Therefore, it seems to me personally that one thing that would be necessary as an additional measure on the revenue side is that a faster development of the second pillar would be needed. I do not think that the country has done enough to further save people, even young people, when they first become employed, I do not know what percentage of these young people who are aware that these funds or other pillars exist and that they can save on their wages for their own age. The Fund should also ensure an adequate return and security of investment. Therefore, as I have already mentioned, portfolio and dispersed investments and, above all, appropriate measures such as the activation of the unemployed, especially the very rapid transition from the education system to the labour market, for we young people are working very late. And we all know how we get the money in the pension box. It is said that in the pension register is the money that we pay employees and employers from their salaries. And there's more employees, there's better economic growth, there's more in the pension register. Therefore, it is also very important when people get a job and also what fiscal policy a particular country or government has. As I have already mentioned in my position today, it is a very worrying situation that, in fact, 20,000 young people will enter the labour market every year in Slovenia and 30,000 people will retire. And practically in Slovenia the number of people working in 2026 will decrease by 150 000 compared to 2006. The number of people over 65 will increase by 180,000. This means that the actual hole in the pension register will indeed be increasing. I think that in yesterday’s Finances, I have read the OECD recommendation or analysis that points to the long-term effects of Coronavirus on pensions. In view of the higher unemployment rate and lower incomes for many, there has also been an increase in the risk that people will no longer spend as much on pensions as they have now been prepared. In addition, it is also important that I do not go into detail now, but also that there are certain challenges that are now saved for pensions brought by the Coronavirus, the decline in the value of funds in pension savings accounts, the increase in liabilities due to falling interest rates in pension savings arrangements, the lower ability of individuals to contribute to the pension savings plan, and the tendency of individuals to give priority to immediate needs ahead of their long-term interests. In fact, the coronations have already affected our pension allowance in the coming years. As I have already mentioned, putting everything under one roof, all companies, is dangerous, pointless and also untransparent. Indeed, the demographic fund should not be and should not be an entrapmenter of investments that would cause difficulties in the event of a crisis. In fact, too much fundamental investment from this point of view is also wrong because in the event of a crisis, they should be recapitalised or even taken credit so that these companies can be rehabilitated. As a result, it also affects the resources of the demographic fund itself. If I focus even more on the specific law that we have on the table today, and if I sum up just what position or comment the KPK has made, then it is clear that this law is not suitable for further consideration and is harmful for adoption. The main problem we see in the LMŠ is, and much has already been said today, the transfer of ownership from the country to the National Demographic Fund. This means that the demographic fund would not only be the manager but also the owner of most capital investments. Also, the concentration of all state property under one roof is inconvenient. This raises a question that is crucial for Slovenia to reduce its credit rating through this transfer, increase its funding costs and make access to financial markets worse and thus reduce its competitiveness. As the ruling government now boasts that we have such good ratings - with such a transfer of ownership and with such a creation of the demographic fund, credit ratings will no longer be so good. The concentration of all assets in one place would be particularly problematic in terms of governance, rationality and adequacy, safety and long-term sustainability of the pension system. The third thing that is also very important is that the law does not provide for any new resources which, in addition to capital investments, would increase the fund's resources and provide resources for co-financing for a longer period. One of the proposals was also, which is suggested by the SAB to provide dedicated water resources. I think it would make sense to think about it in the future. The next thing that is very inappropriate - the bill also foresees spending on other policies, such as quoting Minister Brickler, who says: “For the first time in history, we have a systematic, long-term and sustainable resource for all these policies that the demographic fund is supposed to address. [[…]] This means the construction of kindergartens, homes for pensioners and apartments for young people.” I think that all these additional policies, such as the construction of kindergartens, homes for pensioners and youth housing, are policies that the state must provide from its budget, the state budget, and that this is by no means part of the demographic fund. The demographic fund is intended for pensions. With as little property as we have, if we give for all these policies, if we co-finance all these things, we will have virtually nothing left for our pensions. When we are also talking about governance and control itself, there is certainly too much political influence. And if I make just a few key points, which the KPK has pointed out, it is a non-transparent procedure for the drafting of the law. The text of the bill was forwarded to the Economic and Social Council and to no other participant, nor was it given to the public. I think that such an important law as the demographic fund would require a broader social consensus and should involve all key stakeholders. The fund will be transformed from SDH, but certain important provisions of the SDH Act will not be taken into account. In particular, these are key issues, those that have been introduced into the SDH as safeguards to strengthen the independence of the company, to consistently avoid opposing interests and illicit gifts, to ensure transparency of operation and to strengthen the integrity of SDH and its management companies. I think that there is a big step back here and that this law does not in any way contribute to transparency. Furthermore, the law does not provide for control of the property status of the members of the supervisory authority, as regulated by Article 62 of the SDH Act. This will allow the Commission to exercise control over fund managers and companies in which the Fund has a majority or a dominant influence. Then the next very critical issue is that no prohibitions and restrictions on the Fund and its employees are even envisaged in the area of receiving gifts. In short, KPK has made many very important comments on things that are a step back, but the government does not hear and take into account any things in this law to ensure that the law is acceptable. Because of all the things I have said, this law is by no means suitable for further consideration and I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word is given by Master Elena Zavadlav Usaj and will be discussed by Andrej Chernigoj. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. How nice to meet you all! Today, we have heard many times that the pension system is as unrestrained as we have it in our country. It is not sustainable on the one hand due to longer life expectancy and on the other hand due to reduced fertility. This is not only a problem in our country, but it is also in other European countries. This, of course, affects the reduction of revenue and the increase in expenditure on the other hand. This reduces the public financial expenditure from the pension fund. It should also be said that Slovenia is one of those countries with the fastest ageing population. In 2019, the social contributions covered slightly more than 81% of pensions, at the end of the projection period, which is in 2070, will be only around 58%. This large percentage gap shows how much decline is expected in the next period and therefore a solution has to be obtained. Today we have this solution before us. We have a proposal for a law on the National Demographic Fund, which should otherwise be adopted by 2014. And this proposal improves the financing of pensioners, the financing of pensions. This would also relieve the state budget, which does not mean that we are also solving all pension problems, but it is only the first step, saying that we have the law in the first reading and at the same time the first step of the changes in this area. The essence of the law is to concentrate all the country's investments in one place, with some specific exceptions where the ownership of the State is to be maintained by the Republic of Slovenia and the income from these investments is to be allocated primarily to current and future generations of pensioners and to the implementation of family policy measures. This will make all countries' investments better managed, as they will be managed in one place. On the basis of this proposal, the law would result in the transformation of SDH into a new society, that is to say the National Demographic Fund, where ownership and management of the investments of the Republic of Slovenia is concentrated, as I have already said, in one place. Transfer of all investments from those institutions that we have heard and are now in state ownership, the addition of some, and the transfer of assets and the rights and obligations of the Bank Management Company to the National Demographic Fund. It is also essential to ensure the independence and autonomy of the national demographic fund in the management of investments and to determine the content of the investment management strategy of the fund and to determine the purpose of the use of the assets of the fund. What is to be presented today is that this solution is wrong, that it is going in the wrong direction because the entire state's assets will concentrate on one place and thus increase the corruption risk, the possible reduction of the credit rating, the deterioration of governance, this is not true because they are only assumptions. We have legal opinions, of course, but, as I said, the law is in the first reading and the law will be supplemented through the next reading stages. It should be borne in mind that the government of Janez Janša has taken a step forward in this area along with other coalition partners, which means that it has taken a bite into this sour apple and started to solve things. It came with a proposal, which the past governments have not done. That is why I also support this proposal and will vote for it. I would like to stress, however, that you cannot then, on this proposal of the law, hang anything else that has been said in the past. It's not worth living in our country - why? Because of such a proposal or because of the situation in our country? I think it is worth living in our country, because we are all working together, including those in this temple of democracy today, that we will be better off and that we will provide both young and old with a better life. And young people also know and are aware that they can be saved, but unfortunately the wages in our country are on average very low in some places and young people have to decide and weigh in their investments, where they will invest in that early youth and where they will actually have the most needs satisfied in the first year of self-reliance, if we can say so. That's why I think this demographic fund is as good for them as it is for all of us and our country. I would also like to call on the opposition to cooperate in concrete terms, and I am sure that this bill will be improved through the examination of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Andrej Chernigoy has the word, and he's going to be debated by the mag. Diane Jedhan.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for your floor. In this place in the esteemed congregation, where democracy is at home, I have listened now for several hours now to my colleague and colleagues, how best it would be if he stayed at the status quo, and nothing changes. Let me tell you, my esteemed colleagues and colleagues, I have come forward and run for office in elections with the desire to make things look better. I cannot buy the answer "no, there is nothing to be done here, this path is wrong". I have also run for office in Illyrian Bistrica because I have the will of life, the energy of life to change things, we turn things into the right direction. Now that I'm younger, I have to take care of my older years. Who's gonna take care of me if I don't? Let's move on. Sometimes it is necessary for future and development to take a step forward and this proposal, the proposal of the National Demographic Fund Act, in my opinion, is a step in the right direction. I'd like to tell you one more childhood anecdotes. A child who does not know how to ride a bicycle but has the amazing will to take it away, taking it into a lease, sometimes falling, sometimes also gets hurt, but the final result is that a child can drive a bicycle all his life. That is why I have also decided on the policy profession, because I believe that we can do a lot of good, but not with the answer “no” but by looking for the answers “how, yes”. See, as far as this topic is concerned, demographic change is causing our social and cultural order and changing our coexistence. There are fewer and fewer young people like me, and younger ones, and more and more older. This means a great deal of pressure, which we are all aware of in this Chamber, on intergenerational solidarity. The life expectancy of the population is increasing as it shows improvements in the standard of living of the population and the progress of medicine. The needs of people, their families, will also change in the long-term society of the future. We want to create opportunities for the quality life of all generations and decent ageing. This requires a coordinated adaptation of labour market measures, lifelong learning, health care, long-term care, social protection, the living environment, as well as in other areas such as the demographic fund. I am very pleased that, in the past, the Minister of New Slovenia – Christian Democrats said that if this bill on the National Demographic Fund is adopted, for the first time in history, a systematic, long-term and sustainable source of demographic policy is envisaged. I'm not blind that this demographic fund will respond, offer all the solutions to all the problems, but as I said at the outset, I think this is a step in the right direction. Here I would also like to remind my esteemed colleagues that the Minister of New Slovenia, Mr Janez Cigler the King, has recalled that the budget provides funding each year to cover the deficit in the pension register. The biggest contribution in 2013, I think there is about a billion 600 million, but now I think a little more than a billion euros this year, that's a third of the income from the pension fund. Let me say that trends for Slovenia are not the most promising. Slovenia is considered in the Member States of the European Union to have a very negative impact on public finances. We all know here in the hall that the first simulations show us that in Slovenia, by the year, I think 2065-2070, will have increased from 22% of GDP to 28.2% of GDP. More will be paid by citizens within the European Union only in Malta or Luxembourg. There's still a lot of data available. We know that the structure of the population will also change greatly, that the relationship between pensioners and insured persons will be very negative and not for young people. But maybe I could just stop at a few more things. In the proposal for a national demographic fund law, the aim is to pool all the country's investments in one place. With some exceptions that have already been mentioned in past discussions, we will join together a portfolio worth slightly less than €9 billion. So the fund is supposed to be independent and autonomous in the management of investments. However, as a young man, the young Member is very pleased with me that the draft law on the National Demographic Fund is not only the domain of the elderly, but also the youth will be taken into account. That is why I am very pleased with the structure of the Governing Council. In my view, the fund must be directed to the older and younger population of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Supervisory Board will therefore also be proposed by the Union of Pensioners of Slovenia on the one hand and the Youth Council of Slovenia on the other. We can do our best, but without increasing the younger population in our country, we will find it difficult to save the pension fund. As I mentioned at the outset, I think this proposal, the proposal for the National Demographic Fund Act, is a step in the right direction. This solution will not fully solve this problem, but it is a start. That is why I will also support the proposal of the law with the greatest joy, and I hope that you will do so, dear colleagues and colleagues, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dean Jedhan, and he'll get the word "magic" after him. Dušan Verbich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u150	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, welcome! Today we are talking about a serious matter, and I like to talk a little more openly than usual here, not with a few views of what happened a thousand years ago, who we smoked, who we didn't, but what we do next. It is our duty to do our utmost to ensure that current pensioners and future pensioners are safe during their third life. The problem when we look ahead is, of course, that we are working on projections that will or will not. We're actually talking about a demographic fund, we're talking about a demographic hole that's going to be projected in 15 years and it's going to be 50 years. For this period, we just have to save up a bunch of money so that they don't question the pension of the pensioners at the time. When we talk about the demographic fund, the question that's at stake for me is where to find the resources, to fill it as much as possible, so that when it needs to be pumped, we can pump it. Where do I find this money? One answer is very clear, let's look at how much state property we have, and we're all sad, because 30 years ago, when privatisation went on, not all the money just went to pensions or demographic funds to go to pensions. But that was once, we don't have to do that anymore. But the question is what to do – I think 12 billion more or how much assets – is that most of the money that these companies make in the form of profits or at least an important part will be available to the demographic fund. This is the first question to be answered and this is being answered by various demographic funds. Today we are listening to a second option, the Social Democrats and the partners presented a second view a few weeks ago. Then the next question is, do we have somewhere that some countries have that are more successful in this area, and this is where those natural resources are, and where are those monopolies of wealth, so that we can redirect part of the monopolistic rent to the demographic fund? Unfortunately, the Slovenian state does not have oil, gas fields or anything like that to fill a pensionable cash register similar to those of the countries that have it, it is significantly easier for them. We have, if that's how I might rank, a natural fortune, if I release anything, let me be forgiven. The first natural resource is, of course, water. We are considered one of the most watery countries in the world, we actually have high quality drinking water, mineral water, thermal water and everything else. And then the question is, are we brave enough to give part of the water concessions to the demographic fund? In my opinion, this would be necessary because it is only the natural wealth we have the most. Another important natural resource is the forest. You, honourable Members and honourable Members, remember how difficult it has been for us to change the governance system of the state forest, which we have very little, slightly below 20%, but nevertheless, something has changed the management problem by becoming similar to what they have in Bavaria and elsewhere, or at home, that most of the money is not left with concessionaires, but that we substantially increase the amount of money per cubicle to make it available for different parts of the Slovenian state. I think we've come from about 10 million a year to almost 30 million. My wish has always been to do this in such a way that this additional money would also be available for the demographic fund. It's clear to me that everything can't be made available. It is true that 10, 14 million work is required in all the Slovenian forest, not only national, but still remains 10, 15 million, which I think would be useful to shift to the demographic fund. Maybe someone says 10, 15 million a year isn't that much, but over a period of 10, 20 years, we've been talking about 100, 200 million. Now that we think about it this way, we see that some additional natural treasures, unless we look at quality air, including light, wind and so on, in fact in Slovenia we do not even find any more. Is it possible to burden the beauty of Slovenia through tourism? This is a brave question, which I do not even have an answer to at this time. The demographic fund should therefore always be asked whether we can find any additional resources intended for pensioners only. And then, respectable and respected, but I think there's probably no difference in this area between coalition and opposition. I remember myself, as my colleague at the SMC said, how in the past the demographic fund has tried to be realized, and those who have enough honesty to say it out loud will probably also say that the Social Democrats would be ready then both versions will be accepted. It was more important that we close the money for 15 years and make it available to pensioners when they need it than how this fund should be composed. But what I am, the distinguished representative of the government, a respected coalition, is extremely fleeing from this demographic fund, is the following. It's not really a demographic fund. This is a fund for the management of Slovenian assets, but it is not a demographic fund. I don't understand that anymore. From here on out, we have very different views. What is the basis of the demographic fund, ladies and gentlemen? To lock the money down, and when there's a demographic hole that's still not there, it's projected that in 15, maybe 20 years from now, this money will open up. And not nearly, as some have already said, the demographic fund cannot solve all problems at that time, even if 5 billion will be collected or 7 billion will be collected, but at least in some part the state budget will still be burdened by pension funds and so on, but at least in some part it will help to make pensions at least a little safer. But it has to be locked up. The demographic fund that is being used today, which is about to be used immediately – this is not really a demographic fund. It has important functions as recorded. It's really important that we build kindergartens, and it's important that we build housing, and it's important that we build homes for pensioners. Too bad you didn't write the most important thing, it's imperative to build the missing hospitals and restore the currently obsolete hospitals. All this is important, but this is not a function of the demographic fund. The function of the demographic fund, my dears, is not a family policy. Family policy is really important, it is one of the fundamental policies of each country, but it is not a demographic fund. And if you look at the demographic funds, whatever they're called in some other countries, these institutions are designed for safe pensions. Pika. Once again, they're intended for safe pensions. They solve housing problems with other funds in a different way. Policies in other areas are also resolved in a planned, systematic way, by raising money, but not from the demographic fund. Therefore, what you have done is not a demographic fund, it will not solve the problems of pensioners in 15 years. By realizing something that we are as politicians in an immensely difficult situation, and this is how to now take measures that will not show their power until 15 years from now. I know that politics has this mistake, that it is too strategic to think too much from election to election. But the real demographic hole won't be when the next election is held. The real demographic hole will be when there will be no one sitting here today or even the vast majority of people in this national assembly. And of course, the question is, though we are aware that we will no longer be here, whether we are making serious and difficult decisions. The current form of the demographic fund shows no. In fact, this current form is such that we want to show immediately the distribution of money, if possible next year, and share it further - legitimate interest, legitimate policies, but not for the demographic fund. I don't know how to change this, so that what's ahead of us will create a real demographic fund, which will also have a social consensus. Why is social consensus needed? You know, when some policies are adopted, it's always a question of whether they want to make these policies as long as they live on several parts of a Parliament or by the end of a specific Parliament, concrete coalitions, so that the other will come and turn everything upside down. I think that in the demographic fund, policies should be long-term programmed. But such a policy, respected and respected, can only survive if there is a social consensus, so that the change in the composition of the National Assembly does not affect the search for a new, different, better or worse solution. There's no such thing today. And, of course, it would be ideal, but I don't know if you can pull this off and give the law a month, two, three time to get us all together, not just within politics. This fund is in fact the least needed policy. In fact, it should be written in large, red letters: Toes policy, away as far away as possible! This is a fund dedicated to the young population, a fund that is currently dedicated to employees who will be retired over time, as young people will also be retired over time, but before that they will still have to work, and this is a fund that is also dedicated to current pensioners who will still be pensioners in 15 years. What am I trying to say? This is a typical project, which must be in close coordination with young people's representatives, must be in depth coordinated with employees' representatives, i.e. trade unions, and with pensioners' representatives. Of course, when I ask if that is the case, we all understand that this is a rhetorical question. What I'm asking myself is what to do to make it happen. I know that as the opposition we have the possibility of some kind of control - we ask questions from Members, we make proposals that are largely not accepted. The only proposal that was adopted, and I am grateful to you, was to help disabled people or families who have children with special needs to feel a little better when they are sick. Most of the other proposals here are not accepted, so as a representative of the opposition, I have very limited opportunities to do what I can to come up with a good solution. I have this opportunity to appeal to you. That's what I'm doing now. And I have this opportunity to appeal to you. That's what I'm doing now. And I have this opportunity to ask you: Please, come on, but really let me coordinate with the union centers, let me coordinate with the pensioners' representatives and let me coordinate with the youth representatives. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. You know, and I conclude with this, such a severe lack of confidence in the political class, which is all of us here – part of the political class, as is currently present in Slovenia, has probably not been in the modern Slovenian state. This is a common policy issue. I can see it when I see what people are asking me on the road, what they're asking me through these modern electronic media. It's a huge, enormous lack of confidence in politics. But how, in fact, can trust be restored in part? But you know, respected and respected that the path is incredibly difficult, incredibly hard. But it cannot be achieved if at least it does not attempt to agree, reconcile, and then move on together with those who are important stakeholders in some matter. And that wasn't here. That is why I invite you, because it is only in your hands, it is not in the hands of the opposition, we can all and so we will probably click this button that is in front of us, it says minus, it means that we are against, but you can solve a demographic fund that is not a demographic fund, a demographic fund that should be the result of a social consensus, but it is not the result of a social consensus, it is only a result of showing muscles, strength, but we are really strong, not only do we require you to have an application if you try to break it, we can also impose our demographic fund on you, but you will not come anywhere. You'll get there exactly, as your minister, the president of SMC, has said, and you'll run into a wall. The problem is that the whole of Slovenia suffers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u151	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Dusan Verbich, and after him will discuss Miha Kordish. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Vice President. Very nice greeting, Secretary of State with a coworker, colleague and colleague! It was just my honourable Member that the predecessor encouraged me to say the following as the first sentence. He expressed “the policy of the site” according to today’s agenda. But I think he knows very well that the state property of the Republic of Slovenia is managed through the executive branch of power, and it appears in the role, if I can very simply call it, the owner and here the policy is included. And what I would like to stress in this is that it is very important to ensure the right balance between governance and control in such activities, matters and decisions. And here, at least in the latter, the National Assembly has one of the important and key roles, because in the final stage of such political debates, which are somewhat misleading, it does not appear that the members of the supervisory councils governing state property are called precisely this national assembly. But, I'm sorry, he just challenged me a little bit. It has been interesting to hear a wide variety of discussions so far, especially with regard to the vision of the management of state property in the Republic of Slovenia, especially with a forward view. Of course, it was raised in the debate whether to follow in the management of assets to modern corporate governance approaches in the right substantive sense or contrary to what is state-owned, to be left in the management of a viable mode of management, which shows that it was not solely for the benefit of citizens and citizens. I believe that today's debate should follow, in particular, the search for answers to two key questions for me. Will the management of state property be better, more efficient, more transparent and only in the interests of the State and not in the interests of hidden businesses for the interests of individuals or societies as we have seen, but will I not talk about the timeline, both in the DUTB, the Society for the Management of State Claims and in the SDH? And another question that's very important to me. Can we assess that the content of this bill is somehow following the principle of corporate governance, which we are talking about so many times, we are alerting it and we want it? As far as the law is concerned. Nevertheless, it must be made very clear that Slovenia does not have a fund in the form of an insurance system, if I may say so, known abroad or in foreign countries, where money or property for pensions would be loaded and nobility, which would benefit both present and future generations. Unlike some of my respected previous discussers, I have a slightly different view as far as this law is concerned. I myself assess that the essence of this law, and I put it first, is that the management of state property in the Republic of Slovenia begins to take place both from the supervisory and management functions of only one city, a company which has the status form of a shareholder company. I believe that the name or address of this law has only a substantive or symbolic meaning. Today, I will not comment on statements and references to the KPK and similar as regards corruption risks if somehow management occurs in just one matter, but in this context I must say only the following sentence. When we compare how things work within one society across our borders in the global economic system, in the management and management of societies, whether they are companies, it doesn't matter what legal forms they are, in fact, they don't. I'm talking about the private sector. And who says that in the Republic of Slovenia there is no time for good practices to be transferred to the Slovenian system in the work of managing state property. I'll take a few more words on that. The bill, if I touch on it a little bit more, because in the debate so far, there has been little debate about the content itself, more disfavor for the content of the law, which has been conditioned in the debate, also directly linked to the current government, but I will not do that, because I think there is an opportunity in other places. The fact is that the draft law preserves the fundamental purpose of the Slovenian State Holding Act. These fundamental purposes have been structured in the following key elements and I will nevertheless mention them. First of all, the central management of the country's strategic and important capital investments. In the debate, my fellow Member has already outlined a strategy for the management of state property. The next issue is the management of capital investments in line with the guidelines of good corporate governance practice, more in Slovenia, more abroad. Furthermore, to ensure measures to strengthen integrity and accountability and to limit direct political influences. And lastly, what was a good point or a good basis for SDH's operation was somehow born in a different direction in a number of cases, optimising the risks to corruption and preventing conflicts of interest. In my view, these are somehow the elements, the items that need to be included in this law on the national demographic fund. Of course, it is already in the title of the bill 'national', and in itself this word eloquently states, while also addressing the widest range of direct or indirect users, I can also say, beneficiaries to whom this law is intended. That is why I am of the view that a broader consensus is desirable, of course, especially if possible, politically. Article 48 of the draft law is also intended for this purpose. I will make a number of points on this Article 48 below. As it is said, this bill concerns, touches, is intended for all generations in the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to provide revenue from the State's assets, which must be managed primarily in the following way: transparency, security and profitability must be implemented in a consistent manner. I am confident that there will be much more political debate on this in the next stages of the legislative process if it is decided within these days that this bill is suitable for further consideration. However, I must admit that it is somehow and I will give some words to some of the articles of the law, for which I have some concerns myself, and I believe that they will also be resolved in the next stage or debate. First of all, with regard to the principle of due diligence and responsibility, it is necessary to define even better, to commit the bodies of the Fund so that no bad management practices arise, in particular as I mentioned in the introduction, both SDH and DUTB. Furthermore, with regard to the availability of investments, I wonder whether these articles are defined in such a way as to enable optimal management of the Fund in the direction of long-term, safety and return on investments themselves. I do not think that there is a good degree of overlogment at the level of the law and that more detailed matters are left to the statute of a company, in which case it is a fund, of course, and also to internal rules or to the act of management itself. Furthermore, the costs of the fund or the management commission – I believe that this needs to be further defined, and I have the idea that every single government determines this by its own discretion. These are matters that are most likely still needed in some debate, which, of course, includes various stakeholders, including policy, also addressed. One of the key issues, as I mentioned in the introduction, is the composition of the Supervisory Board. Initially, as I said, I mentioned the so-called national demographic fund, the national word, and this is what is most pronounced or evident in this article, which sets out the numerical structure of the composition of this supervisory authority, in the process of managing the fund that we know as the supervisory board. From my point of view, there are two dilemmas here, and that is whether the number of 11 members of the Supervisory Board is too small or too small and whether the appointment of these members, as proposed, is optimal in terms of the title of the law itself. I am in the position that the control of management, which is carried out and carried out in accordance with the statutory powers of the Supervisory Board, is not decisively a large number or only a number of members, because they may appear here, and in the past we have faced difficulties in decision-making, even if political and not business interests are at the forefront of the company itself, in this case of the Fund. As it is known, it is not a rule, but practice shows the following, if I speak for Slovenia, in companies owned by the state and so-called political staffing, never in the first place is the interest of the society itself, in this case a company controlled, but there are other interests that simply take precedence over the interests of society itself. And if I say so in parallel, that's also true for the administration. Therefore, it is reasonable to consider the number of members of the Supervisory Board, as well as their appointment, and their appointment, because we must be aware that management and control, when transferred to the appointment of an individual, is solely within their competence, because simple corporate governance requires a process of autonomy. And how important it is, whose persons are called these so-called very responsible places of the Fund’s Supervisory Board. I have to mention this because, in some cases, SDH has been a very bad practice, and there is no responsibility that I will not talk about DUTB as a single society. I believe that this should be noted in this debate, because we must continue to be aware of what the Act on Economic Companies provides for in relation to the powers of the Supervisory Council. At the same time, we must have a view that there will be a fundamental act of the Fund, in this case a shareholder company, a statute. And this, together with internal acts, can affect the work of the members of the Supervisory Board. I say this in conjunction with the foregoing that the members of the Supervisory Board and, of course, of the administration in the Fund's control and management process would not give priority to all others but to the society itself, in which case the shareholder company of the appointed Fund. Unfortunately, for many years such practice in Slovenia is that there are political staffing, and it is a reflection that there are many words about corporate governance and that the actual picture is completely different. In other countries, political or client recruitment is also present, but those designated in the management and control bodies do not give priority to a politician or a client, but to businesses and very successfully pursue the interests of owners on the security of state ownership investments and so on. That is why I will still be able to say that, abroad, corporate governance with state property works well in countries with developed democracy. I'm afraid that's the reality. Now, in the end, I can point out that I will support this bill because I think it is suitable for further consideration at this first stage. However, there will certainly be interesting debates on this subject, mainly in the direction of both, introductoryly put, questions. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word has Miha Kordiš and will be discussed by Predrag Baković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u154	The proposed idea of the demographic fund, as seen by the government of Janez Janša, has exactly the same problem as the predecessor of this demographic fund, the Slovenian State Holding. That is not to say that a fund that manages state property meaningfully and prudently develops basic economic infrastructure in the country and equips citizens with a quality, successful, efficient economic backbone, but is, most directly, a trough. The trough, which, in the case of the demographic fund as in the case of SDH, will be greased by various setups, bureaucrats, high-paying officials, should have Slovenian names and surnames or be imported from abroad. But even less problematic than the other basic reason why the Slovenian State Holding was established or the demographic fund would now be established is that public property would be privatized. That what is now in the state or in my sense of social property belonging to all citizens and citizens be disposed of under private capital. This is just a fact that underlines why all ideas about the demographic harmony of John Janša must be strongly opposed. To collect commissions and act as a criminal gang in privatisation processes, the problem is even smaller compared to the fact that for a few generations to come, the economic backbone in this country, as far as it still holds public ownership. We are talking about poor ten billion assets - not enough, but still a very busy share - to protect at least what has not been sold, privatized, and basically gambled. We know what this privatisation has done to itself. First of all, first of all, there is no such thing as pure privatisation. It's always cloudy business. Even these blurry transactions are less problematic compared to the fact that, usually, new owners, private owners, even speculative funds, or any strategic partners such as the ruling government likes to sell, cut jobs, cut down development departments, close certain production lines, even though they are profitable companies. This was, for example, the case of Helios, who was then purchased by the Austrian Ring, which was sold a few years later, and in the meantime he abolished some 100 jobs, but it was a profitable company. If I don't even start about the New Bank of Credit Maribor, which was sold for small money, before much recapitalised and flooded with state money, so that the buyer of the American Speculative Fund Apollo practically returned the purchase immediately. What he got in his hands was worth more than what he paid for. And the continuation of this destructive policy will, of course, continue to increase if the state property is placed under such a demographic fund as proposed by the government of Janez Janša. In general, it would be necessary to manage the state, that is, our public, our common assets and our safe age, i.e. the filling of the pension allowance, the long-term care, the building of homes for the elderly and so on, to distinguish. The first clue to why these two need to be distinguished is that a hole in a pension fund financed by a country of EUR 1 billion is already far beyond what we can expect from the profits of the demographic fund. At the same time, this hole did not arise because of the lack of a demographic hole or a lack of jobs or anything like that, perhaps a small increase as the ruling policy would have us believe, but it was born in the mid-1990s when the authorities decided to cut the contribution rate into the pension box for employers for almost half. From then on, more than €10 billion of heavy deficits have occurred in the pension register to date. Lawyers at the time of the cut in contributions to the pension fund referred to the decommissioning of the economy, let the capital breathe so that it can create new jobs so that it can invest in development and I don't know what else. None of this has come true. At that time, the contribution cut was replaced by a tax on paid wages of 70 percent of those contributions, which had previously filled the pension fund and some years later, under Bajuk, this tax was abolished. Where are all these jobs, where is all this strong development? They're gone. The difference resulted in private capital spilling into its own pockets, into tax havens, the accumulation of real estate and personal luxury. That is exactly what we can expect to happen in the future. But he left us more than €10 billion with a hard hole in the pension box, which is now being saved by the state with every budget, as I have already mentioned, one billion is moving the current transfer. Of course, in the next few years, we can expect this transfer to increase further because there will be a decline in contributions to the situation of the social and economic crisis. To patch up this gap to release funds in the state budget, which the state can then meaningfully invest in social subsystems and social development, in schools, in hospitals and so on, is only one solution to this problem, and this is to raise contributions to the pension fund for employers again. It's the only just solution. It's a solution that technically beats us in front of our noses, but the ruling policy is beating it up like the devil's cross. He's looking for a thousand and one excuses and a thousand and one other ways, like a demographic fund that's supposed to fill a pension fund, so that the funds are enough to pay pensions, miserable as those pensions are, rather than do what he has to do. In order to take where, in the case of the rich, the capital, and direct these surplus funds to where society, not even the state itself, needs the society, this is the pension fund. In fact, it is difficult to start talking about raising the rate of contribution for employers. More specifically, the equalisation of the employer’s rate with the workers, since the individual employee still pays more than 15 per cent of the contribution from his salary to the pension allowance, the employer’s contribution is half the lower. How is that fair? It's not fair. That is why one of the initiatives of the Left – this initiative still applies and was also recorded in 2018 at the points of cooperation between the Left and then the Government of Marjan Šarca – was to start the process of equalising the contribution rates between workers and between employers. If this had started to happen, we would have reached a rate of 3.2% in percentage points for employers within four years, and by 2024 we would have an additional EUR 400 million to cover the pension allowance deficit. This is more than twice as much as we can hope for a contribution from the demographic fund in 20 years, let alone immediately. In fact, there would be EUR 400 million of net net income of a country that does not exist at the moment, and not just handing over assets from the left to the right pocket or from the right to the left pocket, as it does not matter anyway. In short, the question of pensions. The pension fund issue is resolved in one and the same way, that is to raise the contribution rate for employers. Pika, it's over. This must be the backbone of the solidarity provision of pensions. Now, of course, this is one of the many tax breaks for the rich and for the capital in this country, which is by no means translated into the development and explosion of economic activity and I do not know what else, but into luxury cars, luxury holidays, filled with foreign accounts in the Cayman Islands and similar stories. Some of this money probably ends up in networks of individual political parties, such as the SDS, because we saw how it was with the acquisition of protective equipment, masks, respirators and so on, where the government kept very clear and fed its own with multi-million-dollar, including multi-million-million-dollar deals. Here we are talking about a demographic fund that will manage almost ten billion of our assets, while at the same time it will be given virtually free hands to privatize companies such as Krka, including such bearers of the Slovenian economy, will be up for grabs for various kinds of predatory funds. How much this is a profitable motive to drive the economy, including a public-owned economy, problematic, we can see in the case of Post Slovenia, which is a country not regarded as a universal postal service for all citizens and citizens, but as a normal capitalist company that should bring 8% profitability. As a result - in the last few years, management of mail has been pressing hard to close the network of businesses, replacing them with outsourced services; in the post office there is a real direction of working resistance. He organized a radical syndicate, went on strike, got through the general mobilisation of the post office, and we recently even in the National Assembly discussed their law, which the post office union has introduced with the signatures of citizens and citizens to deal with, just to protect postal services from the closure of these small businesses. This happens if a country with companies that should pursue social objectives is to create jobs, protect the environment, develop local communities and so on, hands as well as some dairy cows that need to be exported for maximum profit. Where does that maximum profit come from, and that's how we know it. At the expense of kicking employees instead of rewarding employees, at the expense of environmental degradation instead of green regeneration and social reconstruction, of course also at the expense of the devastation of local communities. Mail is a good example of this devastation when the businesses most in need of the most vulnerable groups are closed, these are the older ones who are also the least used to using digital services. This is one company, which is ten billion euros in this mass, which can suffer irreparable damage before the further increase in capitalist logic. And this escalation will occur, either directly or indirectly. What we need in the management of state property is exactly the opposite of what the government of Janez Janša is doing, after all, the diametric opposite to what the past governments have done. Instead of a dictatorship in companies that is often even worse than the dictatorship that we have right now in the whole country where there is a capo di banda manager, whose word is first, is the last, is alpha and omega, while the usual worker on the minimum wage should go solo. Instead, we need democracy in companies, because companies create everyone who works in them. Companies are not just managers or in the case of the private sector, their owners. All the value that companies create comes from work. And who will contribute most to this value if not just a working group? And we've come to a point where it's not enough just to talk about democracy in the country, to scream and to jump hysterically on tables, when Janez Janša's government is destroying democracy. Yes, he does, but in companies, workers are 8 hours a day, and every time they go to checkout -- and about 8 hours a day, for decades they are no longer just an 8-hour worker -- they don't even know these democracies anymore, and they beat a third or more of their lives in the workplace. Instead of the demographic fund, which is really a bedrock for privatisation along the friendly lines of Janez Janša, we need a plan fund to guide this social economy, a plan fund in which workers' councils, not working groups, participate directly. And this is a scenario for our common economic assets to be protected from predatory funds and privatisation, to continue to develop, to spill this wealth on the whole society, after all, to carry out a planned, planned and dedicated green plant in the economy. Markets and private capital, as well as public enterprises run by private capital, are not capable of doing so on their own. Their leader was profit. However, the labour economy with labour democracy is primarily followed by another kind of leadership. This guide is a blessing to all. And this society that I'm describing and this development model that I'm describing is also known as socialism.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u155	Thank you very much. The word is Predrag Baković and the next will be Mag. Marco Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u156	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! In fact, the demographic fund is the agenda of every policy, and given that I have been following this topic for quite some time, even before I sat in this congregation, I will slowly get it, I will say, beard and we all know that this is actually an extremely important area that will have a long-term impact on the quality of life. Of course, we all know how demographic is with us and how we become and become an ageing society. That is why it is so much more important when decision makers somehow prepare for this process of adoption of such an important law that, in addition to all the material we receive on the bench, we also get to know other things that illuminate the area from other aspects. Moreover, the views and observations are important, in particular, of those institutions, bodies or individuals that protect our society from harmful consequences. Of course, there is also a need to know the field, the views and comments of those who know the field well. And for this law before us, I can say that, in fact, when I have come to know it in some way, it raises quite a few serious concerns both about the mixing of ownership and management roles, the vaguely defined objectives, the exhaustion of funds in line with current consumption and the large reduction of high standards that are somehow required for governance in state-owned enterprises. In fact, in some ways, the Commission is also saying to prevent corruption or the KPC, which says that it does not follow the principles of due diligence and accountability, independence and transparency, does not provide for strengthening the responsibility of integrity and limiting the risks of corruption and conflict of interest, it does not establish a framework for non-political action and thus conditions for the independence of the National Demographic Fund. The law-making process itself is said to be not transparent because it was only transmitted to the Economic and Social Council. Important security guards have been released with regard to the duty to establish compliance and integrity officers. Then it does not provide for control of the real estate status of the members of the supervisory authorities, as regulated by the Slovenian State Holding Act and so on. Somehow, it is a departure from the proper perception and management of many years of recognized corruption risks in a company with a country's capital investment and does not contribute to enhancing integrity and preventing corruption. That's how I twisted what the KPK says for a while. And, of course, in these comments, we need to think about whether we are going in the right direction or whether these things need to be radically changed and reversed. Similarly, the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, which says that the proposal of this law somehow changes the current corporate governance system with the capital investment of the country and that it does not provide for the establishment of a demographic fund as an independent, autonomous reserve fund, but introduces the basis for the establishment of a new centralised roof management of state assets, and that the proposal should be aimed at following the management standards applicable to banks and insurance undertakings. The proposal also leaves institutions for transparent and efficient management, such as the human resources procedure and the criteria for the appointment of members. So I can say, somehow, that this law does not provide some new resources, but it does depend entirely on the profits of state-owned enterprises and on their privatisation revenues and, as has already been said, also foresees the exhaustion of the fund for purposes which do not relate to the pension system. If there are so many concerns, I will say from the side, but these are not the only ones, because this is even more, and if I recall the comparison between the proposal that we tabled recently and today, I must say that this version is worse than what we have prepared. And this fact, which I have just warned and I am warning now, is essential that if we are already working on such a demographic fund, we must somehow form a separate independent and transparent fund and at the same time define a clear objective of how we will strengthen this pension fund and, of course, what will be the appropriate asset structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Marko Pogačnik will discuss Vojko Starović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u158	Mr President, thank you for your floor. Colleague, fellows! We have before us the proposal for a law establishing a national demographic fund. We cannot go beyond the fact that legislation has already somehow made a commitment to establish a demographic fund in Slovenia already in 2013. Unfortunately, the then government did not implement this, and then there was the Slovenian State Holding Act, where one of the articles of this Act also committed itself to the always existing government or the Ministry of the Establishment of the Demographic Fund no later than the end of 2015, and this did not happen either. Today, in 2020, it has been more than five years since the last deadline for the establishment of the demographic fund. It is clear which governments were in power and probably the parties themselves are most likely to know what did not result in the establishment of the demographic fund. One of the priorities of this government, this coalition is already in the coalition contract itself, for the demographic fund to be established. The fact is that this government began its mandate in March, with a covid pandemic on its back, it also succeeded in setting up a demographic fund under this coalition agreement. The demographic fund is important. It's important to relieve the pension fund. And the fact is that demographics in Slovenia are certainly one of the worst in Europe. Slovenia has a pension system which is probably one of the more solidarity in Europe and the world and is also viewed by pension system assessors as positive. The greatest risk, the greatest danger they see for the Slovenian demographic fund, is, of course, an unfavourable demographic structure. The ageing population is one of the highest in Europe and, in fact, the forecasts for the future are not the most positive. And that's why it's the government's job to take care of and maintain the pension system stable. A stable pension system – a stable pension fund. One of these factors is, of course, the establishment of this fund and the provision of an additional source of funding to further strengthen the pension fund and, on the other hand, to relieve public finances. Today we all know that it depends on what the economic climate is like in Europe, what is the economic climate in Slovenia. The economic climate is poorer, the pressure on the budget is higher and the pension fund is higher. I'm sure this marriage is prepared in the right direction. The fact is, it's the first reading of the law. In the National Assembly, procedures are followed at the home labour body and then another procedure as a plenary session. We have already said in the introduction to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group that we are open to all good proposals. I am convinced that the law on the table, together with the powers of both the coalition and the opposition, can be improved in the end. Let's just remember in 2012, the preparation of the Slovenian State Holding Act, the Bad Bank Act, when I always said that with the help of the opposition, this law was eventually improved and improved. What does this marriage bring? It brings a lot of changes. I think it's about steps in a positive direction. One of these steps is, of course, to combine property management in one place with this law. That seems necessary to me. Today we know that we have quite a few institutions in Slovenia that deal with this. What is the actual effectiveness of these now, and it is likely that everyone can judge for himself. Undoubtedly, however, it is unacceptable that there have been such cases where two companies in charge of the management of state property have voted differently in the assembly of one of the companies. I am confident that a new way of managing, with an association in one place, these matters will no longer occur in the future. The accumulation of assets accumulated in the coming years by the adoption of this Act is also an essential or important part of the proposal. The fact is that this law defines how dividends will be distributed in companies owned or managed by the Fund, that is, 40% will be paid for current PPIZ cases, 40% will be paid for the accumulation of the fund's assets, 10% will be paid for the construction of dedicated properties for the elderly and 10% will be paid for the family policy measures. This means a fairly dispersed matter with minimum levels of risk and also by dispersing dividends into all the areas that this demographic fund is supposed to cover. The specific segment is also the purchases from the sale of domestic investments, i.e. the fund of this sale price uses 40% for the payments to ZPIZ and 60% for the accumulation of the assets of the fund. I personally believe that such a system, such a model, such allocation coefficients are appropriate and that they will help to manage more effectively and not least, I would say, one of the key objectives. This means that it is burdened and established in some way a stable pension box. I am confident that with the demographic fund we will certainly not save the pension fund, that pension reform is urgently needed before us. I'm sure we should take a step further. I am of the opinion that the pension fund can only be increased with higher income. However, higher income can only be generated by a higher number of jobs. This means jobs, new jobs, opening up higher incomes in the pension register. I am convinced that there are at least two reforms, namely tax reform and reform in the field of labour law, that are necessary for the proper functioning of the pension register and for the stability of the pension treasury, at least in addition to the adoption of the demographic fund. That seems crucial to me. With these two reforms, I am sure that new jobs can be opened in Slovenia and that new, foreign investors can also be brought in. We were in this position as a critic by the opposition. This opposition, in most cases, had seven years to establish this demographic fund itself, as it should be by law, but it is not. The reasons are probably familiar to you. I would also say the last government that was, the government of Marjana Sharca, had this opportunity, did not do it, you probably know the reasons yourself. For this government, the demographic fund is a priority of the coalition contract. And within eight months, this thing is on the table. I cannot help but overturn the fact that some opposition Members and Members were primarily discussing the transfer of assets now owned by the Republic of Slovenia to the demographic fund, in order to lose the international reputation to raise our interest rates. Look, honourable Members, the honourable Members of the coalition that you have explained this, this bill has been in the National Assembly for at least two months. The government, the Ministry has prepared it, I think, over the last six months, and all this information is also in the public eye. And if that were true, then I am sure that foreign rating agencies in Slovenia would already reduce the rating because of this rating. But the opposite happened. Moody's credit rating increased even the rating in Slovenia about two months ago and estimated that the environment is stable in Slovenia and that a stable environment will also be in the future. Standard & Poor's held a rating about a week ago. I think that this will be the best way for all of your findings to go from the state to this fund, because now the assets will be transferred from the country to this fund, international ratings will deteriorate to pay higher interest rates for Slovenia. Credit ratings have increased Slovenia and this is commendable and Slovenia is a stable country. Slovenia is a country in which foreign investors can have confidence. A foreign investor will normally first look at the rating of an undertaking or a country. And Slovenia's credit rating is growing, and here I think it is a tribute to the government, which, by its actions, is encouraging confidence in the agencies. Like I said, we're here for the first reading today. The law itself is not yet optimal, I am sure that many things can be improved. Above all, I believe that the management of assets is what is important, that it is transparent, that the composition of the Supervisory Board is important, that it is the composition of the management of this company that will deal with it. Last but not least, I think it is important for the opposition to have a representative in the supervisory council, because this is the property of everyone. However, most of the coalition parties that are opposed to this today, in 2013, you were the ones who threw the opposition from the supervisory board of the Slovenian State Holding. So I'd say, above all, you're saying something, you're doing something completely different. I am of the opinion that this path proposed by the Government with this law in the management of state property and in the establishment of the demographic fund is correct. I am of the opinion that certain things can be changed, even improved. I will personally support this bill in my first reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u159	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Vojko Starović has the floor to prepare Mr Edward Paulic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Madam President. After so far heard, rather written and varied debates, even the high-flying thoughts expressed, I think it is good for us to look at what I consider to be an expert on the proposal for a law. We have very good opinions at the recent corporate governance conference organised by the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia. The present law, the National Demographic Fund Act, was also discussed at this conference. The participants were the only participants in the evaluation of the proposal. The proposal is inadequate both in substance and in the light of corporate governance and should therefore be withdrawn. The only assessment of participants is that despite the merger of all four state-owned investment managers under one roof, the demographic fund will not be able to cover the pension gap and that most of the inflows will be spent on current pensions and for future generations there will be little fighting. With €8.6 billion of combined state investment, most of which are strategic, it will not be possible to achieve the stated objectives, namely to provide pensions and additional funds for other demographic objectives, family objectives and long-term care. That's not possible. It's just a smoke screen, because it's gonna be hard to do something to finance pensions, according to the vice president of the Association of Managers. In the Chamber of Economics, they warned that it was not some kind of fresh means at all, since they had so far expired into the budget. They estimated that this fund could create around €280 million of inflows per year at best, which means that they could only follow the reconciliation of pensions and that without sale, future challenges could not be addressed. At the conference, the economic profession considered that the proposed solutions to the law with the demographic fund had nothing to do with it. The existing assets are too small and if we sell them, the fund will eventually end itself. The management solutions of the law were also subject to serious criticism. These abolish staff procedures in the selection of fund supervisors, reduce the criteria for this function and do not require non-politicality, which is in direct contradiction with the OECD recommendations, eliminate all security guards so far when appointing supervisors in state companies, as well as a chapter on integrity, which means that anyone can be appointed to the Supervisory Board. Corporate governance has deteriorated significantly. The OECD representative present, as we are also a member of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, Mr Hans Christiansen, said that the OECD members, who have established good practices in corporate governance of public services in line with the OECD guidelines, have important benefits. In doing so, he stressed that state companies are owned by citizens and not owned by ministers or government. Governance should therefore be in the public interest. He also said that poor governance of state-owned enterprises is not a reason for privatisation but can be improved. SDH, according to its results, which is the countries of these guidelines, is a good example for this. He pointed out that the problem is that state-owned companies are often not sufficiently separate from political influences, as members of the supervisory committees and administrations are still not sufficiently independent in their decision-making. The worst cases are where state companies are only a extension of power. And that's what we seem to want to do with this bill. The anti-corruption commission also opposes legal solutions because it poses high corruption risks. Representatives of trade unions, members of the Economic and Social Council also assess that the proposal is flawed and is not in line with the ESF. The law is neither a day nor a public debate, which is in fact unacceptable for such a law. In all of this, it seems that the proposal for the demographic fund ahead of us is just a smoke screen, as expressed at the conference, for political purposes. Therefore, this proposal does not appear appropriate for further discussion. These are the positions of the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr Edvard Paulič has the floor and Mr Alexander Reberšek is prepared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u162	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. In Slovenia we have the so-called cross-border pension system. This means that our contributions to the pension account are not reserved and spent on our pension, but are immediately spent on existing pensioners. You could say it's some kind of pyramid system. And because of the unpleasant demographic image, the problem of the year increases. Today, 1 in 4 Slovenians is over 65 years old. We know that the state budget is legally bound to cover the pension fund deficit. Thus, in 2019 the country co-financed almost 20% of all pension funds, and by 2060 it was expected to cover a good 40% of these funds. So, yes, we all agree that the establishment of the demographic fund and thus the decommissioning of the state treasury are necessary, but we do not agree with the content of the law. Not only in the LMŠ or in other opposition parties, but also in the Chamber of Commerce and Business, in the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption and also in representative trade centres and could also be listed. In short, if I am cariculating, no one agrees with the methodology and proposed text, except for the applicants, namely the government and the current coalitions. I will not list all the concerns and comments, because there are simply too many, but I will mention some key ones. We need to know that under this law, the demographic fund would manage almost EUR 9 billion of assets from Slovenia and Slovenia. This is already a reason enough for us to be extremely careful and careful in the preparation, and the very process of drafting the law has already been untransparent. The proposal was forwarded only to the Economic and Social Council and to no other participant, and in the context of the negotiations on the Economic and Social Council, the government side did not listen to any proposal for amendments to the law. Nor has the proposal been made for a broader public hearing. Given that it is the property of all of us and not the property of this government, it would be a hygiene minimum. The proposed Demographic Fund Act does not follow the principles of care, responsibility, independence and transparency. This is the Commission's opinion to prevent corruption. And I'm not going to go into the details. These comments are for almost three pages. Supporters of the law mention that the essence of the law is also the concentration of state property in one place. But there's something in these debates today that you haven't put very much on the table. In fact, you suggest that 7 of the 11 members of the Fund's Supervisory Board be appointed by the National Assembly. We all know that this between the lines means that they will be named each time by a coalition. The remaining four members would also be appointed by the government itself. By doing so, you put all the levers of governance and control into the hands of politics. In my opinion, the political independence of the Fund is a prerequisite, as we know from past experience what temptations may cause too much political influence. And given everything that's been said, this law represents a high level of risk corruption. For these reasons alone, I do not think that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Pogačnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u164	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Perhaps in doing so the management of state property and the composition of the supervisory board and everything. Who will set up the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian State Holding today? The National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government. I mean, there's no change. But today the opposition has no representative in this supervisory council. After this proposal, the opposition - you yourself said that this was the property of all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia - is it your system, which is now that there is no opposition then a representative in the supervisory council, okay? And who has the responsibility for managing state property? The government. The government is responsible. The property of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia is managed by the government. And I'm sure the government here must have a word for it. I think we're a little bit in this independent control world in Slovenia, I'd say, so we're done. Sure. Who's putting in foreign supervisors in companies? Owner. Once again, the owner, no one else. And here is the owner of the Republic of Slovenia. I think this independence of the control councils is making little use of the matter. I am convinced that this supervisory board, which is proposed in this law, is more transparent than in the existing Slovenian State Holding.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has now entered the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u166	Thank you for your word, Madam President. I must respond to the statement made by honourable Member Pavlic. He argued that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not support the law. I have to tell him that I'm leading a negotiated with the Economic and Social Council, a negotiating group, and I didn't see that. The Chamber of Commerce never said that. Secondly, you also stated that the government does not accept any argument from the social partners. There are records from the Economic and Social Council that show that the government accepts certain arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Pavlich has the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not going to replicate this to my colleague Pogačnik because the Rules of Procedure don't allow me to do this, but I'm going to be the government's representative. I have here the comments of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in front of me. I hope I have the right information, but 9. 12. 2020 made a comment on Article 48, which refers to the composition of the Supervisory Board of the Fund, and proposed that a representative of employers be appointed to the Supervisory Board as a member. I understand this as a comment, but I did not say what quantity, which organisations or which stakeholders are concerned by the comments. Most of the comments, however, have definitely been made by the Commission to prevent corruption, which as an independent body in this country, I think is a very important shareholder.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State has recommitted himself to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u170	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Once again, honourable Member Paulic. You have stated that the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia does not support the law. Is that right? I won't argue with that anymore. It is true, however, that you point out that they sent a comment to the first negotiating group, at the first meeting in which they expressed their interest that one of the eleven members of the Supervisory Board is also a representative of the employers' organisations, and I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u171	Another replica. Mr. Paulich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I mentioned that the proposed text also disagrees with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. If they have a comment, they disagree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We are now continuing the debate. Mr Aleksander Reberšek is next, and Mr Sonibo Knezak is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u174	Madam President, thank you very much for your words. Yeah, we're finally talking about the real topic, and that's the topic that's gonna burden us for years and years. It is therefore essential that we begin to talk about this in a responsible manner and, above all, that we begin to talk about it today, even though we should have talked about it yesterday. No government has ever, and here to pour pure wine, failed with the law on the demographic fund. Therefore, all the words of the opposition are simply superfluous. Where you've been, what you've been doing, you know. The Pension and Disability Insurance Act, as adopted at the end of 2012, has for almost 8 years provided for the adoption of a law governing the demographic fund. Under these provisions, the Demographic Fund should be regulated within two years of the entry into force of this Act. 1. 2013 Ladies and gentlemen, we should have a demographic fund from the beginning of 2015. Seven years of the left coalition in this area simply did nothing. Well, we have been part of this coalition for 10 months, and today we have a proposal for this law, which finally regulates this issue. So much for the efficiency itself. Today, no matter what the situation may be, we are more close to the establishment of a national demographic fund than ever before in the history of the Slovenian State. We mean that we want to take care of our weakest, oldest citizens in the coalition contract – the establishment of a Slovenian demographic fund based in Maribor. We stick to the principle of the Word. Slovenia is certainly an ageing society and current data show that we are the ninth oldest country in the world, and if demographic trends do not change significantly in the coming years, Slovenia will be the fifth oldest country in the world in 2050, with consequences. Pressure will increase on our pension fund, on our pension system, on our health system. If we are to adapt to these trends, we need to start doing this today. Measures are needed today and not tomorrow. Our current pension system is a classic flow system, a slide system, which means that pension money is being used across the board. This money that we are paying for our pensions today goes back to the same month for pensions for existing pensioners. Sometimes we Members walk in the field and we're asked where my money is, which I spent 40 years paying for my pension. At that time, he must be told honestly that this money is not there because it was simply not loaded anywhere, but that money was spent on pensions every month. Therefore, in a pension system such as Slovenia has, the relationship between pensioners and employees in the previous country or more than 30 years ago, as long as the relationship between employees and pensioners was 1: 3, it is said that for one pensioner three employees were employed, this system may have been and, of course, maintained. Today this ratio is 1:1.5, even during the crisis this ratio fell to one to 1:1.3. To put it simply, for a pensioner who receives 600 euros in pension, at the time of the crisis, there were as many as three workers with a minimum wage. These are the facts and this is the reality of our pension system. According to the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, it took place in the previous year, according to 2019, for all pensions in Slovenia EUR 5.5 billion. Of these 5.5 billion, from our wages, that is to say, those who are employed and working have raised 4,465 billion euros, 81% of what was given to pensions. So, a simple calculation says we're one-fifth out of money. And who's contributing this 20%? This is a contribution to the state budget. Throughout the budget last year, the country contributed a good billion euros to the Pension and Disability Insurance Institute, according to our pension system. One fifth of the pension money was contributed by the budget. Why did this money have to be contributed? Very simple. Because our salaries didn't raise enough money for our pensions. So that the current system is unrestrained and needs to be adapted each year, it is clear that it will be even more unsustainable each year, because the pensioners will simply be more and more. The country is already giving, as I said one billion today, that is to say 10% of the budget around to cover what is missing in the pension register. Another track could be built every year with this money if there was no shortage of it in the pension register. What are the solutions to make our pension system more sustainable? I can tell you that there are three solutions. The first is that we have, it sounds very good that we have more employees who are paying into the pension register. In any event, every employee has a double benefit for that country, because it is paying into a pension box, at the same time in health care and on the other hand it is not receiving different social assistance. So with more employees paying their contributions, the pension bills would be more full. Of course, that is easy to say, and it is much harder to do so, because it does not depend on any administrative action, but depends on the economy or its functioning. The more successful the economy, the more people employed, the more he paid into the pension fund. This is quite simple and, on the other hand, a very difficult solution. Another rather unpopular solution is that we should work longer. We live longer and, of course, there are various suggestions that retirement age should also be increased. If today people who have worked for 35 years or more simply mention that retirement age should be raised, they are very quickly angry or are in a bad mood and it is very unpopular to talk about such solutions in politics. That is why we come to a third solution. This is that from that existing money that the state has at its disposal, we try to create as much as possible to cover in this way the fifth that we need each year to put money into the pension fund or the pension fund. So the fundamental question is how to create as much as possible from existing assets. If we assume that the country had €10 billion in assets in 2017, then of course this is a fundamental question of how to create as much of these 10 billion to cover the billions of losses that the pension system makes each year. If I were to make it very simple, I would say that if we sold everything we have, and for that we would survive incredibly much, it is true that we would survive everything, 10 billion, such as some estimates of Slovenian state property, would be enough for the current trend there for some bad 10 years. Then what would it be? Then we're at the beginning, then we're in trouble, and we're out of state property. I don't think this is a solution, so we need to think about how from what we have to create as much for our citizens as possible. If we look at how they have arranged things in the north, let's say if we look at Norway, we can quickly find that they put all the revenues they generate from oil into one fund, and then this fund invests all over the world to raise more funds for having money for hard times, to have money for pensions and possible losses of the pension fund. That is why today's debate, as I see it, is a step in the right direction to create as much of our property as possible for our people, for our citizens, for our pensioners, of course. The law before us today, as I said, is a step in the right direction, opening up the right topics that Parliament must talk about in the long run. Of course, in this law I see one great risk, and this is the management of the assets of the Slovenian Demographic Fund. If we have everything gathered in one place and if this is very well managed, then of course they can bring very large, and on the other hand, if this is mismanaged and if we have it back in one place, it can also mean great losses. In the management of Slovenian or state property, we did not show up in Slovenia; there was much political recruitment, political shopping, where the best manager was not selected, but the most elected was our manager. Of course, this resulted in a number of wrong decisions. Therefore, New Slovenia would support such a solution if we were already going to collect all state property under one roof, so that the assets would not be managed by policy, but that, in the example of some countries, we would prepare an international tender and get what is good, if possible, the best manager and pay it in an efficient manner. It's my personal opinion. If we Google a little, we can find some articles on property management in Romania. As long as this state property was managed politically, by policy, it created losses all the time, when an international call was made for the management of this property, it invited the best foreign operators and also set a concrete goal, and all of a sudden this state property began to generate interesting and useful and also substantial revenues. So the key to everything, as I see it, is governance and the fundamental thing that we will also focus on in New Slovenia in the future to ensure the effective management of our state assets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're moving on. Mr Soniboj Knezak is next, Mr Michael Prevc is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u176	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! Pension systems, not only in Slovenia, but I think across all developed systems, have problems today. Demographic indicators are about everywhere. None of the pension systems are so sustainable that they can withstand all the deficits we witness due to low fertility. Each country solves things its own way. What I would like to point out in my debate is a few facts - that we had a relatively good pension system in Slovenia until 1996, when we made major exemptions to the economy, reducing our contributions from the then 15% to the pension fund, I think, and 8 more, as they are paying now, is essentially the beginning of the big problems of this pension fund. And that's why we have a deficit, about a billion every year, so I won't repeat myself. According to demographic indicators, over the next 30 years this deficit is expected to be in the sense of 3.4 billion. Countries save differently, I don't know, those who have oil, but one part of that revenue is spent. Unfortunately, we do not have oil, nor do we have any state silver to use in this because in recent years of this privatisation we have owned this state silver more or less. So there are several billion more, but what is left of this state silver is my assessment that we are with this law, which the ruling coalition is offering us today, at one of the last stages of resale, privatisation and ownership of this remaining part of the state property, which is still in force. The cashier's PPIZ needs financial resources. All policies in the past years were aware of this, and several steps have already been taken. Let me remind you, because it was Janša's government that somehow routed the road years ago by setting up a Capital Society that was supposed to transform into this demographic fund. Finally, we also had some legislative extensions in the PIZ, which also discusses this topic of transformation about the need to set up a demographic fund. Of course, we are quite late, including the marriage arms that politics somehow imposed, have expired five, six years ago. So I was kind of happy when something finally moved in September. We had within a few days two draft laws, which I expected to be, as I firmly believe, even more so today, that we should follow the path of one broader social consensus. Just as we have made a point in our proposal, which we have tabled together with opposition partners before the coalition, this is the right communication with all stakeholders., we have been accepted by trade unions, headquarters, all the major centres, we have been at the ZDUS, with the pensioners, somehow today, it is still not clear to us how you have blocked us from being able to reach a consultation in the Economic and Social Council, because we should, in view of last December and the adoption of an appropriate basis for the opposition to present any proposal on the Economic and Social Council. But you've obviously been successful not getting there. The response was good. He was good because we're addressing the problem, so to speak, we're addressing a financial deficit. We're not saying it's cool. Of course, there were many things that could be worked out in marriage, but he followed the basic solution. It is said that he addressed the problem of the deficit in the PSI, which could be substantially mitigated in the coming years by some cost-effective intervention into state property, which would not be much. In the years when the biggest payout crisis will take place, this debt or this part, which the State must cover from the State budget, could be reduced. I agree with the Members who today have said that this fund is probably part of the solution. Other policies need to be strengthened, not least in the area of fertility, which New Slovenia has been warning all the time, but there are youth housing, and the conditions for living in this country are likely to be a part of this package if we are to successfully secure pension payments for our youth, who today do not know exactly what kind of confidence that they will ever receive a pension. Today there was also a lot of talk about pensioners. We're mixing things up a little bit. Even a little bit, not a little bit, for my taste, it's quite too much of a politicization and some political appeal. I listened to my colleague Horvath, who in his position had to remember what this coalition Janez Janša gave the pensioners, and the crisis supplement one, 2% we will raise you and another crisis supplement. They didn't give you anything. We're taking some kind of action, we're taking something we don't have. I don't know if this is a bad conscience, like a one-off, because we're totally unsuccessful in controlling the epidemic. Because every week, every day for one bus of pensioners, mostly pensioners, he dies. I don't know, a hundred things don't play that thing. In short, there are some systemic solutions for these pensioners in this country, and I am thinking about all policies, including the Social Democrats, who we have been in this national assembly for all years, we are all together and no one has found the right solution for a good standard for our pensioners. With all the reforms in the past 30 years, we have done that we are essentially producing system poor people, those who are retiring. What they get isn't for survival, and there's no way I'm not gonna say anything else. [[…]] The concern for pensioners has not been exactly a priority of policy over the past 20 years, and we now have a system like that. The data on the 280 thousand pensioners living below the poverty line cannot be proud of all of us. My friend Reberšek said they're asking him where their money is. I could ask myself that, too. Who should I ask because I started my professional career 38 years ago, and I was cutting off my contributions because they promised me an 80 percent pension? With all the improvements, we have reformed only the cash register with so-called pension reform. But nobody thought about how they could survive with what the pensioners got. And from 80 percent of the average of the ten years, the best years, we've fallen on, or we're trying some repairs now, they fell about a year ago to 57% and 24 years not to mention any numbers in between. So much for how we all took care of the pensioners together. I will not debate much about the law itself, because I think it is, I firmly believe that it is going in the wrong direction. It's in the wrong direction. Instead of channelling financial resources to reduce the hole in the cash register PPIZ, you are setting up some mastodon that will deal with what is not known, has been told many times already today. Above all, it is untransparent, possibly a bed of corruption. So that I don't actually go with some personal evaluation, I'm going to read you two, three sentences of opinions that have been given by the institutes that I respect so far. If I go around the profession, the position of the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia on three, four pages, I will read three sentences: “It points to the absence of a public debate of such an important law. [[…]] Due to its inadequacy and shortcomings in the most important areas of governance of the demographic fund and companies in the management of the fund, it proposes to withdraw it from the legislative procedure.” They contradict the OECD guidelines, which I have already objected to before. The KPK also has similar views. The government that has received such opinions from these institutions, sit down with the ashes and go to a new story. Some added value, however, is the optimism of my colleague Reberšek, and I am far from cultivating it. Of course, we are doing everything that – he said that they will work hard in New Slovenia, that the property will not be managed by politics. That's exactly what you're doing with your marriage. Mr. Pogačnik, I think he said when the opposition had already had representatives in the supervisory councils. He doesn't need them. He doesn't need them. The demographic fund must be a transparent fund in which citizens and citizens will have confidence and the business of which the relevant stakeholders must be involved, with which member more or less than we have proposed, is true pensioners, young people, employers, employees. Politics in these funds has nothing to do. Of course, because of all this proposed law, I will not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr Mikhael Prevc gave up his discussion by getting the following word, Mrs Lidija Divac Mirnik. But prepare yourself, Mr Matjaž German. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u178	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice-President. Nice greetings from government representatives, colleagues, colleagues! We have been discussing this demographic fund for several hours now. The presence of two coalition members who propose this is also important here in the Chamber. Interesting. This fund is actually the management of the common assets, 8.6 billion euros. It's not a demographic fund. However, it is a range that will achieve the political objectives of the SDS and, of course, the current coalition. Why? Because if we look at the structure of the Governing Council, we see that out of a total of 11 members of the Governing Council, the National Assembly appoints them 7 and the other 4 governments. Then where are the employers? No, it is simply a political polygon that will achieve the political objectives of the SDS. That's why he's in a hurry. Why? Because we're seeing how he's recruiting, because it's important that he nod and work on the command. Expertise, references, experience, it's completely irrelevant. I'm sorry. That is why we also oppose this bill in the letter of Marjan Šarc, although it is very important for all of us, because we are paying into the pension register and, of course, we also expect to be able to get something out of it after a while, of course, when the time comes. Unfortunately, however, this proposal is very likely not. Because if we want to get something out of this proposal in 20 years' time, for example, when I retire, this proposal should be locked up and this demographic fund locked, not spent, as foreseen by this proposal. In fact, a lot of stakeholders have said that this is nothing new, that we already have this, because one way or another the profits go into the budget, and then it's paid off from the budget to say, to the pension fund. But there are quite a few problems that many organizations have encountered. The fact that this proposal has not been put into public debate, although it actually touches all of us, is very interesting. I'm not going to say I'm surprised because under this government, they can't surprise me with anything anymore, because in the wildest dreams, you wouldn't think what they'd be doing during the worst health crisis, in the wildest dreams, I never imagined it. But that's another story again. KPK made a lot of comments. He said that the procedure for drafting the law was untransparent, that the proposal did not follow the principles of due diligence and accountability, independence and transparency, that it did not guarantee greater responsibility and integrity, and that the risks of corruption and also conflict of interest were limited. Interestingly, the proposal does not provide for control of the assets of the members of the supervisory authorities — very interestingly — while Members report annually, even on the gifts we receive and the members of the authorities will not do so here. Why do you ask yourself that? The procedures and methods of the selection and candidature are also not regulated, which represents a significant shift from providing conditions for the professionality and independence of the Supervisory Board, of course also for the independent functioning of the Fund itself. It shall not provide for any procedure, conditions or method of selection and appointment of members of the supervisory authority. And all that respectable Mr Pogačnik says is that this is the first reading and that they are always open to proposals, I would have believed him a few months ago and, of course, after all the PKPs, I cannot believe him. Why not? Because we are in the opposition, I think that, in all six PKPs, we have made over 300 amendments, we have tabled them. Do you know how many they've accepted? Nothing. Therefore, all these beautiful words about being open to proposals and making a lot of improvements are just a performance for the public. I'm sorry. Because they say one thing, but they do another completely. And, as it is said, the evidence is all the amendments the opposition has tabled in the most intervention legislation, where millions and millions of our money are shared. That is why, Sir Pogačnik, I do not believe you. You can't even blame me for that. This proposal, which we oppose in the List of Marjan Šarca, does not guarantee any long-term and is very imprecise. That's why we won't support him in the List of Marjan Šarcs. This has been said by a large number of institutions that will not accidentally tell me about politics, including trade unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Reploco has a Master Pogačnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u180	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Collegiate Lidija Mirnik Dijak, I also talked about the Slovenian State Holding Act, which was being prepared in 2012 and 2013, the subject is quite similar to today's demographic fund. At that time, a number of opposition proposals were taken into account, and I have always advocated that the law was eventually better because of this. And I am sure that all good suggestions will be taken into account in this law. Today, the topic is the National Demographic Fund Act, not the anti-korona packages that you mentioned, but if you've already, let me take a look at them, all those proposals you've made when you're taking anti-korona packages from one to six, and you'll see that a few of your proposals are included in these packages. In view of your debate, however, I am convinced that you have not read this bill that we have prepared, but that you have read it, I would say, there is one record that has been written, but you have not deepened the law in any way. Because if you had read the law, your debate would probably have been very different.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u181	Thank you very much. Now that colleague Divac Mirnik is my colleague, and I know that she reads the law, I estimate that the references in your replica are incorrect, and I will exceptionally allow the replica to be replicated. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Pogačnik, in 2013, when the SDH Act was being prepared, the list of Marjan Šarc has not yet been prepared in this Parliament. About that, I hope we agree. Now, whether I read the law or not, it doesn't matter if we even debate. However, I agree with you in this part that if we listened more to the opposition, then perhaps the PKP6 would not even be needed, because everything we have already said would be regulated in the previous one. In fact, your PKPs continued in a way that, let's say the fifth, which lasted three weeks, three weeks, we fixed by six. You know why? Because you didn't listen to the opposition because you didn't hear a damn thing and in every PKP you gave what we've given you before with the amendments. So we're not going to continue here because it sucks. As we say, in the letter of Marjan Šarc, we will not support the marriage prepared in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Just to explain, because I noticed that some Members had no chance of allowing a replica to a replica, I will read paragraph 70, or not the whole, but only this sentence that links to the replica and says: “The replica is not allowed unless the President estimates that the references in the replica were incorrect.” My colleague, over there, who you're skimming with your head, I know that Mrs. Lidija Divac Mirnik has read the law and this statement in the replica mag. The stove wasn't accurate, so I let the replica into the replica. We have now made this clear. We can proceed. Mr Jožef Lenart has the floor, and Mrs Maša Kociper is preparing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Madam President. Dear guests from the Ministry, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The National Demographic Fund Act was therefore created in the care of our current and future generations of pensioners and those who become pensioners. So in caring for the decent age and life of all citizens of old, if I say so. As everywhere in Europe, and especially among the members of the European Union, we have certain demographic trends that show a strong tendency towards population ageing, but this is particularly evident in us, and unfortunately the reality is that we are the fastest growing society of members. In 1992, 1.8 employees worked for one pensioner on average; in 2015, 1.3 employees per pensioner; then, if this goes on, it is assumed that the 2030 ratio will somehow be one employee per pensioner; and then, after 2050, fewer employees will be employed than the pensioner will be. From this title, something had to be done. If we go further to the data, in 2016, 22% of GDP was spent on pensions, about 2070 is already expected to be almost 30% of GDP for the year. What GDP will then be like, we don't know now, but some assumptions are that for this reason there are also some different ways of providing funding and pension payments, so that when we reduce the labour-intensive population and increase those who live on hard-earned pensions, we will find some way to co-exist and, of course, on the basis of reciprocity and nobility of state property. The nobleness of the state's assets has so far been very boisterous. Thus, if we have spending on all pensions at the annual level of €4.4 billion, and we provide it with contributions to the ZPIZ, to the institution, it is necessary to provide the circus with 1 billion of the budget every year and then there is still a small amount, 50 million per year is obtained from Kad. If we look now, why do we have a manna or a problem with providing these funds? Therefore, the people, because so far the state’s property had become worse ruled, had not been nobility. And so, as has already been said, somehow there have been possible solutions since 2013, then there have been two or three other attempts that have fallen into the water, and somehow now this government has prepared and invested, as Mr Šircelj, Minister of Finance, this law for the National Demographic Fund, which says: "Demographic funds are state wealth funds that are intended for the advance provision of pension funds due to demographic trends. Most of Europe's pension funds usually choose less money than pension obligations, and this is what happens to us. And now if we follow ahead, we say we can't step in, but we have to look ahead, somehow by now we've also had some kind of pension or, if you want, a demographic fund in the form of Kad, so to speak, capital companies. However, how has this capital company been able to pay only EUR 671 million in pensions between 2005 and 2019, which is less than 1% of all the necessary money, of all the necessary funds that went towards pensions. For the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, it is clear that the system is only as much as the funds come in with contributions, goes out immediately, is paid in the form of pensions and there is no possibility of any kind of nobility. But then it's different with Kadu, somehow, I'll say, she didn't apologize for not being better able to nominate this property that she manages with these funds. So we must somehow remember that in 2013 we had to allocate 33% of the total amount for pensions from the state budget. It was 1.6 billion euros because there was a period of crisis. So if we went back to that period now, if we didn't have this 1.6 billion to take -- what would happen? Wouldn't you retire to people or something? So if someone hopes to take such a risk that after some crisis this happens to us, then this national demographic fund is really not needed, but we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that it is. What else would we now attribute to, I don't know, a new six to seven years behind in the formation of an alternative pension reserve fund, just any other form? What's the delay? Because there was no political will. It was ignorance, or it was the powerlessness of every government. There were also a lot of costs, all of which included Kad, SDH, DUTB and others, but there were no visible effects or real results. As the Minister of Finance also said, in addition to the above, a single, transparent, safer and more efficient corporate governance system of state-owned companies is being established for this equity concentration of most of the capital investments of the country. So, yes, there were some comments, but I don't know what the rest of the opposition doesn't understand. What does that mean? We don't all know that more cooks make worse soup. And I think it's clear, but that you can't tell and admit good solutions, because it's more of a bad condition for someone, if you want, to have this pension fund, because I don't know if it's any other fault. The new fund must benefit both the current and future generations of pensioners and families. Therefore, part of the funds will also be allocated to family policy. I don't see anything wrong with that. We have a poor birthrate, so we are getting older than other Member States. If we do something to encourage births, but on the legs, small steps, then it is possible that this picture will be repaired in a while. And we all know that good family policy is the reason for a little bit more growth. And of course, thank God that some of us know what a friendly family policy is, and this government is monitoring and following these goals so that families can survive more easily. In Article 10 of the National Demographic Fund Act, we also have that investment management "must be based on the principles of security, dispersion, liquidity and profitability". In one word, we could call this an effective fund, which will have more and more money. In the opposition's debates it was heard, and earlier on in the press, some guarantees, if I put it that way, in the sense of the government of Janez Janša will be given full power over all state assets. That's not true. Fat lie, I must say. Or maybe, I don't know, someone in Levica has a stalker. Each country, i.e. the government and the National Assembly, will have the influence, influence and responsibility, and control over the economic conduct and nobility of state property, for which we will eventually draw on the worthy pensions of our people. But we have to say that so far these were not exactly worthy pensions. Then there was, I don't know, breaking news on 24ur.com, 5. 10. online, he says, quote: “In the SD, where they have already filed their demographic fund law in the National Assembly, Tanja Fajon’s leaders want to fill their pension fund solely for the financing of pensions after 2040. They also supported the SD proposal in the SAB, where they are critical of the government's proposal, because they fear that the government would take the entire property with it free of charge to the state and transfer it to one company in its entirety.” And I quote, then says Mrs. Alenka Bratušek: “We will never allow a country with one swing to lose its assets.” So what's this? If that's how I see it, it's once again a statement when the language was too fast or the language was too quick to think. Because they'd take who? Everything stays here, it's state property, yours and ours and all the citizens. I can also say with the words of a colleague: “There was again a smoke screen outside”. Isn't it? Therefore, the state cannot lose its assets, as some colleagues argue, because it is noble under the national demographic fund. Then it is also clear from the proposal that we are all responsible for doing good and fair, which is effectively managed. So also this national assembly and this government, all the competent ministries listed in the law, have the responsibility to place competent and competent supervisors. They are responsible: the Supervisory Board of the Fund has 11 members, 7 appointed by the National Assembly, 5 on the proposal of the parliamentary groups, take into account the number of Members, okay, then, the Association of Pensioners' Associations is also with them, then four members are appointed by the Government, all the ministries of the field, which are in fact stakeholders of all that money will be used for, and I see nothing wrong with it. Furthermore, such conditions and conditions are necessary for a member of the Supervisory Board, namely, personal integrity, business ethics, experience, performance and reputation, and so on, not to read everything, but I think it can be achieved by capable and respected supervisors who will lead this property honestly. Of course, we still have control over them. So I don't know how it would be possible to say now that all government control is going to be, because I know that this is not the goal and not the reality that this government would want it to be. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, I must remind you that this House is not yours, is it not your government, or is it not yours? We only have one in this country. And so are others, secretaries and so on. Property under the National Demographic Fund or in any other form is the property of all our citizens and all of us here. So I think we need to let our experts actually pull things together, solve problems and make sure that the pension funds are enough. The establishment of the Office for Demography and the Demographic Fund under this Act is also part of the coalition contract, so that it is effectively implemented for the time being. We have to be, I'll say, kind of happy that we're doing this together in this state of emergency at the time of the epidemic, which is causing us so much and so much extra work. All those who seek to ensure that our people have a decent life and a safe age and that our country will be more effective and be noble will be supported by the National Demographic Fund Act, both I and the Slovenian Democratic Party. This good proposal also has my voice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Since there have been many cancellations, we have exhausted the list of discussers. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate in which the representative of the Government of Mags gets the floor. Peter Ješovnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. To conclude, the Government is, of course, following an intergenerational consensus, seeking to concentrate assets, which is in line with the OECD recommendations. The establishment of the Fund aims to relieve the budget. The fund does not replace pension reform. The establishment of the Fund is not the only solution, but it is one of the steps. Warning that there is insufficient wealth and that it will not be sufficient for decent pensions is justified, we agree, but it is probably not the fault of this government and this government cannot solve this alone. We categorically reject the sale of property and the attempt at privatisation. We also categorically reject political interference. I would like to point out to this honourable assembly that, already in SDH supervisors, the National Assembly approves, on a proposal from the Government. The government has a procedure to get to the selection of these supervisors, and the KPK has repeatedly watched, regularly monitored and so far there has been no problem. The news is that the National Assembly will be able to name its candidates after a new one. I see no reason why the National Assembly would not be able to introduce such a procedure as the Government does. There have also been some other issues that are of course important, such as the problem of international ratings and the price of debt. We don't think this is going to have any major consequences. As has already been said in the debate, the government has been preparing this law for several months and we have been discussing it for the last two or three months. In the meantime we got one better rating and one renewal rating. However, we agree with the opposition's warnings that this is a question of integrity, which you have pointed out in several places. As the Minister of Finance has already said publicly, this will be taken into account in the next stages of the drafting of the law. On the basis of the debate held, the Government assesses that the proposal for a law is appropriate for further consideration and necessary to ensure the sustainability of pension funds and public finances and to co-finance family policies and care for the elderly on the basis of intergenerational solidarity. It is the responsibility of the Government to provide funds to the pension fund during the period when its expenditure is higher than its revenue. The government is therefore committed to co-finance the pension fund as much as possible and to burden the pension transfer budget. To conclude, fair, balanced and cost-effective action is needed today, based on general intergenerational solidarity, which will include both the younger and the older population of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Without immediate action, we will not be able to avoid the reality of the simulations that predict the break of the generation curve after 2042, which will mean that we will have more pensioners than the insured, which will be an exceptional financial burden for the state budget and the glass for the development of Slovenia. Once again, the Government considers that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Since the time set for the debate remains, I ask whether you wish to discuss it further under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. I see that there is no interest, so I am concluding the debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, we will decide on Thursday in the framework of the vote, in accordance with the meeting's timing. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Mining Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 38 Members and Members with the first signed by Nataša Sukić. With regard to this bill, a group of 38 Members and Members of Parliament, first signed by Natasa Sukić, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Natashi Sukić's representative for the additional explanation of the bill. Mrs. Natasa Sukič, if you'll excuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u188	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Good-bye! For almost two decades, the British Ascent Resources Corporation has been working on cracking in Petišovci. This is a dirty technology that is found to be devastating to the environment and health of the local population abroad. For almost two decades, the British have been working to obtain from the country all necessary permits to forge profits at the expense of the polluted environment and the inhabitants and residents of the Petisovites and the wider region. Even threats and extortions by government officials and illegal and unacceptable pressure on government officials have been used. Nevertheless, to this day they have not obtained all the necessary permits. But the only way to make sure they never will is to make the cracking illegal. For this reason, in the Left of the National Assembly, together with the opposition partners, we are now proposing for the third time an amendment to the Mining Act, with which we would do just that. We have therefore considered almost the same law twice. When we first tabled a proposal for a legal ban on fracking, we expected that the entire ruling policy would come together and protect the inhabitants and inhabitants of Prekmur, their health, the environment in which they live, the land they process and the natural values that are being cultivated in the Mura Biosphere, and represent a well-tapped potential for sustainable development in the region. We did not even imagine that the ruling coalition would in such a condescending manner issue its own people, its own countries, and vote in favour of the dirty profits of foreign corporations. The discussion of the law was held in silence, and there was almost no discussion at the meeting of the National Assembly. All we could hear from coalition parties that broke the ban on fracking, when we first discussed it, were short and substantively empty positions that did not even deserve that name. This was also the case with the second introduction of the amendment to the Mining Act, which would prohibit fracking. The law ban on fracking was called upon by the Municipality of Lendava, which we are invited to do by environmental NGOs, we are invited by the premurk civil initiative to ban fracking, but all of this has been for the ruling coalition so far Bob against the wall. Therefore, in Levica, together with the other opposition parties, we insist and again, for the third time, we have tabled the amendment of the Mining Act and demanded a general discussion in which the public can see why the British Corporation Ascent Resources has great confidence in this coalition and why people do not have it. In June this year, when the Administrative Court ruled that the Ascent Resources had to carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment and obtain an environmental permit, the Corporation, on the one hand, threatened the State with an action before an unnamed international arbitrator and, on the other hand, welcomed the performance by the Government of Janez Janša, in which it apparently had greater confidence that the project would receive the necessary permits. Last month, when we discussed the law that proposed the ban on fracking in Levica, it showed that the British corporation's trust in the currently ruling coalition was more than justifiable. Until our proposal, the government has not really defined itself. The opinion they sent to the National Assembly stated that they were preparing the amendment to the Mining Act and that it would be better to include all solutions in one law. Although, as far as I know, the cracking bans themselves have not yet been included in the law they're drafting. But we finally received the answer to written questions between the lines — The government is silently supporting fracking in Petišovci. All the opposition's calls for the consideration of the law to be suspended, for the coalition to talk and reconsider to protect our people and the environment together against looting foreign capital, have so far been bob against the wall. In silence, Members of the ruling coalition have already voted twice against the bill, against the interests of the local population. It's a national betrayal move, and it's an unprecedented disgrace. All those who have contributed to the fact that we have not yet banned fracking are aware of this, so they did not want to point out themselves in their discussions. And the fact is that you are acting against the public interest of a healthy living environment and for the profit interest of foreign capitalists, because we will get only change from fracking and 90% of the profits will remain in corporate pockets. You are working against the protection of the health of the local population, against the protection of clean drinking water [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u189	Colleague Sukich, please finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u190	and against the protection of the Mura Biosphere Area. [[…]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u191	Thank you very much. You're a little out of time, so I warned you. I now give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Aleš Mihelič, to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u192	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your word. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests! Let us introductory to a short representative opinion of the Government. The first-signed group of Members and Members, Mrs Nataša Sukić, is 1st 12. 2020 submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and adoption of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Mining Act. They proposed to supplement Article 6 of the Mining Act by adding a new third paragraph proposing that it would not be possible to obtain a permit for exploration and mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with added chemical impurities under pressure. They also propose, in the transitional and final provisions, that existing permits for research and mining concessions and applications for exploration and mining rights for the exploitation of hydrocarbons comply with the provisions of the amended law within three months of the entry into force of the amendment of the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, the text is not appropriate as it allows the injection of all other media. Injecting a certain amount of water with additives is an essential component of oil and natural gas production, as well as drilling of wells. The deep drilling of wells, including wells drilled for geological and geomechanical research, for example, for construction purposes, is carried out by a flush that lifts drilled particles and maintains the stability of the well. Concession acts or regulations governing mining rights shall, in a specific case, be subject to the Regulation on the granting of mining rights to holders of mining licences for exploration or extraction of mineral raw materials issued on the basis of laws and are no longer applicable and cannot be amended. The text of the bill is not adequately formulated and does not take into account the financial consequences of interference with acquired rights. Only one concession contract for the exploitation of oil and natural gas is issued in the Republic of Slovenia. For the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water into an environment where an environmental impact assessment is required, it is necessary to carry out an environmental impact assessment for these parts. The Ministry of Infrastructure has prepared a novelty of the Mining Act and is sending it to public hearing these days. We are now meeting the proposal for the third time in a similar situation. As we have already explained twice, a comprehensive regulation of the mining area is being prepared, including this domain proposed in this bill. I can show that the proposal is made and will go to a public hearing this week, where, of course, all proposals, both proposers and everyone else, are welcomed, and we will gladly, all those who are useful, useful and good, take them into account. Thank you very much and very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We continue to present the views of the groups of Members. Mrs. Sukich, do you want anything? Tell me what you want first.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u194	Yeah, I don't know now. As a proponent, can you be brief?
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u195	No, you can't, because we've got a position statement before, and then you can get a word as a proponent right away. The first position of the SNS Group will be presented by Mr Dusan Šiško. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present! They say it is going to the Third Council and therefore opposition parties have been in the legislative process for the third time an infamous Mining Act. We're still not getting out of the mind of the British company Ascent Resources, which wants to get gas with Slovenian partners by stimulating wells. Last year, the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia decided that an environmental impact assessment should be carried out prior to the issuance of the permit for gas pumping. After the Constitutional Court attached the Agency, the British Corporation announced a lawsuit against our country. It is unacceptable that the British company has greatly deceived its investors and the population in this area of Pomurje, which is building its opportunities in the fields of agriculture, fisheries, recreation. Therefore, we must not stay away from multinationals whom we cannot defend ourselves against. And in the Slovenian National Party we support those NGOs, societies that fight fracking. It would be interesting to know why the permit was issued in the first place. In Slovenia, oil and natural gas are mined in Petišovci, which is ecologically sensitive. Similarly, the harmful effects touch Nature 2000 and the Mura biosphere, where Unesco recognized the extraordinary natural wealth. The prohibition of fracking is also justified in terms of the precautionary principle. In the Slovenian National Party, we are against earthquakes, groundwater pollution, drinking water with toxic substances and destroying the most fertile finger. On the basis of many cases from abroad, we can rightly expect that there will definitely be irreparable destruction of our environment, where regeneration capabilities would also be compromised. Our Slovenia is not a self-sufficient country, so it is even more important that every citizen comes up with something on his home breast and at least knows what he is singing. Greater weight, importance must be given to natural resources, water, air that enable the existence of all living things on earth. As a responsible company, which we believe we are, we must stop using fossil fuels to meet our energy needs if we are interested in reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We must strictly respect international obligations, and we must not forget the objective of achieving the Paris climate agreement on maintaining global warming under 1.5 degrees Celsius. Other countries are becoming aware, so they are increasingly being decided to ban or limit this method of hydrocarbon production precisely because of preventive action in order to protect the environment, health and property of humans. Tell me the argument against why this example or good practice would not yet be followed by our Slovenia. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia is the one which provides, in Article 72, that the State is to provide for a healthy living environment. In Article 73, however, that the State and the local communities are concerned about the preservation of nature and cultural heritage, we should therefore not have any doubts against. We already have too many degraded areas. It is in the public interest that the current permits for research and mining rights be harmonised in order to protect the rights of the inhabitants and residents of the country who have the right to a healthy living environment, and that they should also stand firm for this. Once again, in the Slovenian National Party's Group, we would like to emphasise that this is really a very difficult topic and an ongoing one, so we hope that the general debate will take place constructively. Together, let us keep in mind the health of people before the interests of greed and profitable capital.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. It's Mr. Franci Kepa's turn. He will present the position of the SDS Group of Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u198	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Nice greetings to the secretary, colleagues, colleagues! In the proposal, the Group of Members advocates a ban on the production of hydrocarbons by means of a so-called fracking method by preventing the acquisition of mining rights for hydrocarbons. This proposal for a law on these amendments and additions has been examined and the Government considers that the proposal is not supported at this stage. The situation on the ground is that neighbours from Croatia and Hungary are producing, as it were, in the same place, in a geological location from a location near Petišovec's gas by the cracking method in lighter form. There is also a fact that the former government, in which the parties currently opposed this acquisition, adopted this mining strategy in 2018, which states that gas may be used in this area also through such methods. Gas generation is different, and these methods are more, and in the future they can be used completely non-aggressive and environmentally acceptable. Now the representatives of the same parties of the then government reject the already adopted strategy overnight. We are convinced that the strategies adopted must be sound and well thought out also because of the commitment to potential investors in this area. The Ministry of Infrastructure has been preparing the amendment of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Mining Act for some time now and will also be ready for public consultation, where new proposals will be added to improve the proposed law. The law is not good to change because of just one problem, but a comprehensive and complex approach must be taken. It is important to be careful that we do no harm to certain rights already acquired by swift, partial interventions and thus bring the matter into a difficult situation. The main reasons for addressing some of the shortcomings of the current law are the legal situation of holders of existing mining rights by exploiting mineral raw materials and improving the arrangements for more efficient management of mineral raw materials. A foreign company which Slovenia had awarded a gas concession in 2002 was at the government of Mr Drnovšek, perhaps Mr Židan had already voted in favour, perhaps he had not yet been in the government. In general, this was accepted by the government in 2002 and Slovenia granted a concession to a foreign company to obtain gas. According to the new one, he must obtain an environmental consensus, which is Mr Leben, two years ago the Minister, which will be difficult to obtain by 2022 when this concession, which was granted in 2002, is terminated. We have to stick to the profession, not politicize the matter. It is interesting, however, that the gas concession was given by the government, in which the parties against it were now against it, and we were supposed to take the concession that was already granted overnight. So today we're going to grant a concession, and tomorrow we're going to take it. What kind of government or state are we? Such a one-off derogation from the contract may be followed by enormous compensation. So far, this foreign company has not used gas in our territory and there has been no interference with nature. But perhaps such a one-time measure will do this foreign company a great service and will have a great basis for recovery of compensation from our country. We do not hope to think that this monthly investment of the law is speculation or perhaps even the intended material benefit of the party to whom it invests. Our party will not support this proposal and we will wait for a comprehensive mining law prepared by the Government and should be ready shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The next one is Mrs. Jerca Korča. It will present the position of the LMŠ Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u200	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! I should like to give in my opening remarks the hope that has already been expressed today, namely that in the third, it is good to go. The contents of the same amendment of the law have already been dealt with twice in the National Assembly. A number of arguments have been heard at this time, why the ban on fracking is necessary and meaningful. On the other hand, we have heard some restraint and poorly supported reasons why the coalition and the government do not support this proposal. In addition, from the first proposal of the opposition, the period to date has been, practically, two months, when the government party, if, of course, the intentions for the ban were sincere, could have submitted its proposal to the hearing. Unfortunately, this proposal has not been and is difficult to believe in the seriousness of the government's intentions under the so-called system regime. No one claims that this proposal is most optimal, but if the government says that it will regulate the matter systematically, we wonder why this proposal is not yet in the National Assembly. Protecting nature and understanding the principle of sustainability and taking into account the precautionary principle is not a matter of systemic change, but it is certainly a matter of a system of values that we as politicians advocate or do not advocate. From the very beginning, we have expressed our support for the ban on fracking. We are the co-signatory of the law that is before us and in the LMŠ we have already announced our unanimous support for the bill. Let us take a look at some of the arguments that we have heard from those who have rejected this law so far, that they often oppose their views on the implementation of hydraulic fragmentation or so-called fracting and its environmental impact. That's right. We can read various analyses and opinions supported by different, even conflicting professional arguments. In general, the fact that influences are currently underreported is a common fact. And when we know little about influences, it is important for the List of Marjan Šarc to respect the precautionary principle. The precautionary principle is detailed in Article 191 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This refers to the approach to risk management in the sense that a policy or measure should not be implemented if there is a possibility that it could cause harm to the public or the environment and if there is no scientific consensus on the issue at hand. The matter needs to be re-examined when more scientific data are available. The second argument of the opponents was taken through the constant argument of seeking the need for systematic reform of the Mining Act. The representatives of the Ministry of Justice keep saying this, and we have heard this today, if even a change in legislation is meaningless because of one change. At the moment, this in itself seems an absurd argument, even when we have some experience of all anti-korona packages and when a coalition is talking about systemicity, which in six packages has intervened in a wide variety of laws in a completely non-systemic way, it is in itself an argument on a very torn floor. Let me repeat, in the List of Marjan Šarc we believe that the issue of nature is not a matter of systemic regulation, but it is a matter of a system of values. In LMŠ, we have detected enough risks after reading and reviewing to avoid questioning whether or not fracking is yes or no. Risks, let's say that huge amounts of water are used, with the answer, of course, that we all keep saying that water is our greatest wealth. Another problem is the pollution of water, as dangerous chemicals used in fracking can come back into local water supplies. And back to that famous saying that water is our greatest treasure. In addition, the by-product of water consumption in fracking is a large amount of waste water. Only small parts of this shall be reused. Let too many times the said floscule, that water is our greatest wealth, not remain in the field of political expression, without, of course, actually following action. During the cracking process, there is a shaking of the ground. During drilling, environmentalists believe that potentially carcinogen chemicals can be eliminated and groundwater contaminated. In Slovenia we have a lot of already degraded areas as well as a lot of evidence of an increase in cancer prevalence in some areas. And the question that we have on the table today is whether we will allow another degraded area. In addition to air and water pollution, fracking can have a long-term impact on soil and environmental vegetation. Another argument is that there is a risk of harmful effects for those living near pumps. The number of auxiliary ingredients released in the site of the well can lead to health problems such as eye irritation, nose, mouth and throat. There are also, of course, effects on clean air. For us in the List of Marjan Šarca there are only risks that any of the above actually holds, enough to support efforts to ban fracking. And if we look a little bit wider, what other European countries say about it. In 2014, the European Commission also published a communication on the impact of hydraulic fractures on the environment and human health in the European Union with extensive hydraulic fracturing. Based on the potential negative impacts on the environment and human health, the Communication states that the European Union countries can also prohibit this activity. And so in 2011 the hydraulic break was legally banned by France, and in 2017 also by Ireland. The UK has also banned the production of natural gas by hydraulic fracturing technology and interestingly, the British company itself, together with the Slovenian partner in Petišovci, wants to use this method to obtain fossil fuels. More than once, it has been said that the Republic of Slovenia would have neither the financial nor any other benefits of this business, as 90 % of the profits would on the one hand belong to the British partner. On the other hand, the amount of gas generated would not cover any fossil fuel needs in Slovenia. So in the List of Marjana Sharca, we wonder why we would allow ourselves to create another degraded area for the purposes of some of the capital interests of another country or company. We also wonder if we are really trying to make our land and our wealth, instead of protecting and caring for future generations, based on the principle of sustainability, use and exploit some foreign companies. In addition, there are absurdities when we are talking about green tourist destinations - green and digital will also be at the forefront of Europe's level in the coming years. And where is the effort to observe the Constitution, which also includes the right to drinking water? In the letter of Marjan Šarc, this law before us, or this third effort, will be supported. We have not detected any arguments that would convince us otherwise, even more, more and more arguments are that it is time for this law to be supported. However, as far as possible compensation actions that you like to use in the argument are concerned, I think that even if there are lawsuits and even if there is some expenditure on our budget, this will never outweigh what we can do in one area and what irreparable consequences may arise. If we are in pain or afraid that we should contribute from the budget to correct the fact that someone has decided to conclude a contract, then I think we are in the wrong hall. Because here we should primarily ask ourselves about the future of this country, about the future of those coming after us, and about the future of the area where this is to be carried out, and where the local population also wants completely different economic activities focused primarily on tourism, so that they can sell their products that are produced, so that they have a high quality of life and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The position of the SD Group will be presented by the mag. Diane Jedhan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u202	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Mr Secretary of State, nice greetings to all! “If we do not change course, we will face a catastrophic rise in temperature by more than 3 degrees in this century,” Dejan Židan reads, and so spoke the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr António Guterres, on Saturday, 12 December, 5 years after the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement. He also continued: “That is why I call on all world leaders to declare extraordinary climate conditions in their countries until carbon neutrality is achieved.” [[…]] That is also why, honourable Members, Members and Members of this Assembly today, I can also say at the invitation of the first man of the world, we have tabled a resolution on the declaration of the environmental and climate crisis in Slovenia. In this area too, I hope that we will accept this and that we will be the first. Already 33, ladies and gentlemen, the 33 world countries have declared an environmental and climate crisis and more than 800 million people live in these countries. Let me tell you why I'm talking like that. The goal, which our country has also supported, is to release by 2030 compared to 1990, of course, these harmful, greenhouse emissions, to reduce by 55 per cent - and now listen - to become a so-called carbon-free society by 2050. If we do all of this, and this is extremely difficult, immeasurably difficult, it's not just about changing the industry, we have to change the habits, we may be able to make the temperature in the environment where we live no more than one-and-a-half. Maybe we'll make it. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, every step counts. What's a fracking? What's a fracking? I'll make it very, very clear. They inject into the deep under high pressure water, sand and harmful, dangerous chemicals to get something that we run away from — let's listen to -- carbon dioxide. When we say we're carbon-free, they're getting carbon dioxide. Is the method controversial? Of course it's controversial. Why do Social Democrats believe that it is controversial? First of all, we read all the experts' warnings. I cannot say that I fully understand all the warnings, although I am a naturalist, written down are complex, but the summaries are clear. We're available, even in my office, if you want, if anyone's interested, a study, a description of the harmful consequences where fracking is used. And then something that's also not from flies, respected and respected, we have decisions by a lot of countries, and these are not, in the pronunciations, the Hajjdj countries, which take something like that, we find it hard to say about Germany and France. And what is very interesting, even the country from which the economic society that wants to inject water, sand and harmful chemicals into sensitive Slovenia does not allow them to do so. As the predecessor has said before me, there is a principle in the European legal order called a precautionary principle. And that we will be proud as citizens and citizens, like Slovenians and Slovenians, we have already, respected and respected, implemented this rule in Slovenia in 2011. I was lucky or unlucky that I was then Slovenian minister, but also responsible for agriculture when the bee plague occurred. Experts found out very quickly why bees die. The substance was “invulnerable, rapidly decomposed”. It is not harmful, it is not harmful - Slovenian experts have said that these claims do not hold, our experience shows otherwise. And we were able to be brave, but as a minister, as a government, and, interestingly, with the full support of Members and Members of the National Assembly, otherwise in another composition, the composition is changing, that I think that the first in Europe has applied a precautionary principle, but it has not been easy. If we see all the e-mails that were coming, all the threats, we'll sue you, the hundred million lawsuits, we'll destroy you as an individual, as a ministry, as a state, what they all said at the time. And then what happened? In time, we were followed by France by Germany and now by the whole European Union. But it wasn't pleasant. Now, respectable and respected, there are no such letters, except knowing what was happening to the former minister when he realized that the risk was too great. What was going on with him? We've read it publicly. I haven't spoken to him in person. What is it with you to allow a foreign economic society to threaten the minister of our government? We can't let that happen. Where are we gonna go if strangers come to us and point their finger at our ministers and ministers, if you don't do what we think you're gonna do, we're gonna sue you. Or are we going to bow our heads greedily and we're going to say, yes, accuse ministers, because they're not ours, because they're from another party, maybe from another coalition? No, Your Honor, this is the wrong way. The minister then made the right decision. Our job is to give him recognition by taking the next step — this is the law that is before us today. I'm not critical of the coalition. Mr. Secretary of State, we know. I also think that if someone accidentally said words in the past, let us leave the way for the economic initiative, when he thought about it, he realized that this is not really how the state works. A country that protects its people, a country that protects its environment, is banning it. For what the State considers dangerous, the risk of a precautionary principle must be borne in mind that the prohibition and the debate on a free economic initiative no longer exists. I'm looking forward to having a system law in place. It would be more ideal for me if I had this marriage in my hands some day before. I've been listening for a few months now. The system law is there. Great. Then I propose the following: let us give uniform protection to the interests of Slovenia; let us adopt this non-systemic law which governs only one area - and I will say very emotionally - which protects us in Prekmurje, which also protects us in Pomurje, and at least in Podravje, we will adopt and then together write an even better solution in the system law. That's how the world works when a serious will is present. Members and Members of the Social Democrats the law because the author is a party to the Left and I am pleased that you have allowed us to be co-signers with us, we support and as Prekmurec please accept, the vote will be Thursday, please accept, please accept this non-systemic law, and then we will do it together, develop and together accept the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Perič, representative of the SMC Group, will be next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u204	Thank you, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, good evening to all! Thanks again for saying that. For the third time today, we are considering the proposal for amendments to the Mining Act, by which the applicants want to ban hydraulic fractures or, as is commonly said, fracking. Thirdly, we are considering the identical text of the bill and this time we are also listening to, unfortunately, identical arguments, which are not professionally justified. Although the question of the use of the hydraulic fractionation method, as the fractionation is rightly called, is highly professional and the majority of the public does not really know exactly what fracting is. In the SMC, when we had this bill on the table for the first time, we pointed out that the bill raises more questions than it answers them. And yet, for the second time, we were not able to be convinced. In particular, there was a lack of professional arguments, we were served mainly by populism and popular statements. This then led us in the SMC to do the job ourselves instead of proposing and gain expert opinions from those who really get to know each other at fracking. As regards only the method of hydraulic fracturing, it should be clarified that we know two basic ways which differ substantially and differ mainly in scope. Thus, we know the low volume or conventional, which is and could continue to be carried out in Petišovci, and we know the high volume or non-conventional, which is being implemented or used in the United States. And these two matters, these two methodological forms or methods of fracturing, must not be equated. In Slovenia this conventional hydraulic fracture has already been carried out in the past, with more than ten times since 1956. Technologically speaking, modern fracturing is really nothing new, and so far fractures have had no known negative effects on the environment since 1956. The implementation of this unconventional American hydraulic fracture in Petišovci is not even possible. The Geological Survey of Slovenia, not anyone, not me, not any other party, but the Geological Survey of Slovenia explains that in the case of non-conventional fractures, that is, this American, there would be a rapid oversaturation with water spilling laterally into the hydrocarbon layer. This may or may not seem like some kind of scientific fiction to anyone or even to the proponents, but these are simple facts that have not yet been presented to the public here. And there seems to be another important thing in this regard. The Geological Survey of Slovenia explains that the conventional way is not known to have negative effects on the environment, i.e. this non-American way of fracturing. This explains the Geological Survey of Slovenia. Further, when we talk about where the so-called fracking is banned. At the time of the previous hearing, a colleague from Levice claimed that, among other things, fracking was prohibited in Croatia and Germany. These claims are at least incorrect and misleading. Non-conventional fractures are prohibited in Croatia and are still allowed conventionally. As regards Germany, which has also been mentioned today, conventional gas production is not prohibited. Prohibited, and only temporarily, is the non-conventional extraction of gas. And as far as the non-conventional method of gas production is concerned, it is even allowed for research purposes. And just as the proponents do not want to separate between these two ways, the distinction between conventional and non-conventional fracturing is seen, unfortunately, only in rare media, and this is in fact essential for understanding the use of hydraulic fractionation. This will eventually be confirmed by any expert who is professionally involved. Fear of fracking polluting drinking water has also been voiced several times. In the case of Petišovec, it is necessary to make it clear that the effects on water are unlikely. Drinking water is drawn from aquifers about 20 meters deep, and quality drinking water is also found in aquifers up to 200 meters deep, and finally thermal water reaches the deepest to thousands of meters, and current plans in Petišovci predict the fractionation of gaseous layers from the depth of 2 thousand 700 meters down, that is, 2 thousand 700 meters down. The question that we have to ask ourselves today is whether we are going to stem from professional grounds in the legal regulation of hydraulic fractures or whether we are going to come up with the kind of arguments that the profession has rejected long ago. And the fact is that the prohibition of hydraulic fracturing is first and foremost a political decision. In this respect, the profession has already taken its position, but unfortunately, this has never come to the fore when all proposals for a ban on fracking are being addressed. If we really want to make a decision that will be in everyone's interest, then everyone must step back and take a solution that will, above all, be a compromise. Thus, in our view, in the National Assembly, we should primarily discuss the extent to which we wish to prohibit fractures, and the question of whether they are also prohibited for research purposes is also important. Are there any guidance on planning, design, implementation and control of projects in which hydraulic fracturing is carried out? What about environmental monitoring? Could this be a source for a national demographic fund, in the light of Norway’s example, in view of the topic we had before with regard to the national demographic fund? All of this and many others are questions to which we should look primarily for answers in the types of experts. And only at the moment when we have these answers could we make some deliberate political decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u205	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Group will be presented by Željko Cigler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The impact on water from fracking technology is unlikely. That means it can be an influence. No, because of the technology that the foreign corporation will bring to Slovenia to make profits here at the expense of people and land in Slovenia, we will not allow it. And if the government of Janez Janša is afraid of the threats of the corporation, if he does not hope to protect his citizens and the environment, if he does not hope to be patriotic in this regard, let him resign. That's what we're talking about today. Not for the first time. And to the legal ban on fracking we were invited by the municipality of Lendava, we were invited by environmental NGOs, the premurk civil initiative. This matter is carefully followed by all Prekmurs or people who know or know Prekmurje and appreciate this part of the world or our country, I will say. And when we first considered the proposal for amendments to the Mining Act proposed in Levica in October for the purpose of banning fracking, the Government did not practically define itself until the proposal itself. In an opinion sent to the National Assembly, they wrote that our solutions would be studied in all the fracking experiences we already have in the world. And the ruling coalition against fracking wouldn't even discuss it. Simply when we were on the Committee on the Environment and Space, they kept their mouth shut and pressed the counter button. Earlier, in response to the written question concerning the fracking in Prekmur, the government finally defined up to this method, which we are dealing with today, by which the British Oil Corporation wants to make profits at the expense of the destruction of Prekmurje and Prekmurci. Between the lines we can understand from the Government's response that the Government is practically silently supporting natural gas cracking in Petišovci. And that's his point of view that the Petisov field is on the sandstone. And that natural gas stocks represent the potential to reduce Slovenia's energy dependence. Therefore, gas pumping with cracking in Petišovci would be in the public interest. However, the Government concludes this answer to the question of the Member State shyly in a way that only one - and this is a cracking - may not be defined for individual fracking technologies, although we all know that the method that this gas can still be obtained is only one - and that is a cracking; in any case, a colleague or a colleague would like to present it. It's a method of breaking rocks in which natural gas and oil are found. However, it is carried out by injecting water and toxic chemicals under high pressure of wells from which conventional methods of hydrocarbons are no longer allowed to be produced. And this one in the rocks causes small cracks through which they start to rise up against the surface of the hydrocarbon. At the same time, through these cracks, injected water, chemicals, and more escapes, ask God where. And that could have an impact on water. In its opinion, the Government fully adopts, in practice, the arguments of the Ascent Resources of England on the risk of fracking in the Petišov field, based on the distinction between these arguments, the implementation of the fracking on the sandstone or on shale, and it is also pleased to point out that environmental problems that have been identified in connection with the cracking in recent years are mainly related to the extraction of shale gas or hydrocarbons. It is true that the major environmental disasters caused by hydraulic fracturing in the United States are mainly linked to the hydrocarbon deposits in shale, but also to the fracking sandstones on which the Petišovci are located leave irreparable consequences in the environment, in Prekmurje and Prekmurce. The most famous example of the cracking on the sandstone, which is in an identical environment, on the same rock as we have in Petišovci, is, as has been said several times, the gas field of Groningen in the Netherlands, where fracking caused severe, frequent earthquakes, left consequences on buildings located near the field, and on the basis of evidence of earthquakes, damage to buildings, local residents, the cracking of the Dutch government 2018 for more than 200 companies practically banned. She ordered her to stop pumping. And while because of all the problems that have been caused in the Netherlands, as I have just said, by the cracking of sandstones and the Dutch Government has decided to ban the cracking, our government is practically uncritically summarising the arguments of the British corporation, which wants to serve in the wake of the destruction of Prekmur and Prekmurks, and is scrutinizing about what we are talking about today, which is what we are talking about today, which is the proposal we are putting on the table, this is the proposal for amendments to the Mining Act. And the British corporation, which will be fracturing in the Petišov field, will not do so in order to ensure the energy independence of Slovenia. It will do so in order to generate profits and benefits that will primarily serve those who will be from those who are in the interest of this project of environmental destruction of Prekmurje, in which they invest only in order to draw profit. These are those who publicly threatened the former Minister of Environment and Space, Juret Lebnu and his family on social networks. And if the existing government of Janez Janša is the fear of pressure from a foreign corporation, let them know that in this case we will stand for it if it rises up to the benefit of the state and the people to protect them. The energy self-sufficiency of Slovenia will be practically the same, whether or not gas will be pumped there. In fact, there is an extremely low amount of gas found professionally, which can be guaranteed here. The fact is, according to known data, the British corporation will virtually wipe out 90% of all the profits it will generate through cracking and the negative consequences of this process. And the government says that gas mining at Petišovci is in the public interest. It's a miracle. This government opinion is not shared by the inhabitants and residents of Lendava, who will be one of the most affected, and if the cracking takes place, they will actually feel the grave consequences, several generations, and probably for as long as this destruction is caused. The municipalities of Lendava clearly stated in a letter to the National Assembly one month ago that it must be in the country's strong public interest, that the cracking in the territory of Slovenia is not carried out and must be prohibited without delay. Of course, it is not in the public interest of this country to carry out a fracturing in Petišovci in order to make certain unnamed international investors rich at the expense of environmental degradation through the British corporation. This is in their private interest, in the interest of these investors. It's in the public interest to stop cracking immediately. And this is not only to protect the local population and the natural environment, which, with the Mura Biosphere area, represents untapped opportunities for the sustainable development of this part of Prekmurje. It is also in the public interest because the state of global climate and the legal form of the Paris climate agreement, as already mentioned by my colleague Židan before me, oblige us to stop mining and burning hydrocarbons to meet our energy needs. The climate crisis and the associated crisis of the biosphere require us to leave natural gas where it is - in the country. This is not only in the public interest of the local community, it is not only in the public interest of Slovenia, it is in the public interest of the entire planet. And the discriminatory between the government's position and the local community's position, this is the Lendava Municipality, very well indicates the interests of this government and the ruling coalition and how much people can influence with their will the government's policy. This is a dictatorship that works for the interests of private capital, against the interest of people in Slovenia, which should have power after the constitution in that country. If that is not the case and we hope not yet, and if the ruling coalition really works in the interests of the whole country and in the interest of the people and people of Slovenia, but not in the interest of international capital, then the proposal to re-propose the ban on fracking in Slovenia must be adopted at this meeting of the National Assembly. For the end, colleagues and colleagues, just a few more words, namely, that it would be better for the ban on fracking to be regulated in the Environmental Protection Act, as well as some branches from the government's previous reply to the written question on the ban on fracking in Slovenia, and this position has already been expressed in the National Assembly. I would like to say that the Environmental Protection Act is a more general law, and the Mining Act is a lex specialis that concerns only mining and not other environmental interventions. Of course, it is only right that individual prohibitions and restrictions on mining are regulated in the Mining Act. And that is why the adoption of the law that we are proposing is the only and most appropriate way to ban this invasive method of natural gas production, which has already been banned, which my comrade Natasha has previously listed where everything is, and in one way or another, has been restricted in many European countries and also throughout the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u207	Thank you very much. The position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats – will be presented by Alexander Reberšek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u208	When it comes to this law proposed by the party of the Left, I have a position in my pocket because you put it in almost every session. Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! There's never been a freakin' Prekmurje, he's gone, and he'll never be. That's what all the locals and everyone who knows about things at least a little bit. In Prekmurje, as in other parts of Slovenia, we record paranormal phenomena strongly linked to the zenith of the moon and March 13 when the new government took place. In Prekmurje fracking, there were no left-wing governments in Slovenia for the last 12 years, nor was it in place when the supercoalyst party Levica led the government. And if the constitutional complaint succeeds, there will be no fracking in Prekmurje again. He'll just disappear. However, a lawsuit of €70 million already written will not disappear. Ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - by the way, the state granted concession at the time of the left government. The Left has been making the same law for the third time. Apparently, all he can do besides overthrowing the government is just copy-pasting. All funds are allowed for the demolition of the government. The people for Levica are not essential. The objective is to devote all resources. We have learned this from the past activities of the Left – if not, they simply make it up. In the last three months, the party Levica has tabled this law three times. When they were a super-coal client, they never filed it in a year and a half. The cracking method has apparently become very dangerous with the new Prime Minister of the Government. But under Mr. Shartz, fracking wasn't dangerous, I wonder. Fracking in Prekmurje has never been and is not now, so in Novi Slovenija we will reject the law of the Left once again. However, the government will prepare a law banning possible cracking in the future, and such a law will be supported in New Slovenia in particular so that the Fracking in Prekmurje will not be introduced by Levica when it comes to power.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u209	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek will be presented by mag. Andrei Reich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u210	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Secretary of State, Fellow Member and Members of Parliament! The third one's a pleasure, they say. Again, we have before us a proposal for a law that we have already dealt with twice in the National Assembly. The main purpose of the bill remains the same, this is a ban on fracking. This is an environmentally harmful method of producing hydrocarbons by breaking the rocks in which they are found. In the SAB Group, we have already shown support for the proposal, and we have also contributed signatures to a renewed attempt to ban fracking. This would ensure a healthy and clean living environment for the local population. It is a matter of ensuring in the constitution a certain right to a healthy living environment. This aims mainly at Prekmurje, since in Slovenia the conditions for this method of natural gas production are given only in the town of Petišovci in Lendava Municipality. The consequences of fracking can also be seen in a number of cases from abroad. There have been more frequent and more severe earthquakes, pollution of groundwater and drinking water. Fracking can also affect air quality. Many countries have already recognised the harmfulness of this method and have also banned it legally. Among them are Britain, Ireland, France and Bulgaria. The proposal also follows the commitments of the Paris Climate Agreement regarding the abandonment, acquisition and use of fossil fuels. An exception to the faction of our territory is the British corporation. Although the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has decided that an environmental impact assessment and environmental consensus must first be carried out in order to draw on the gas by means of hydraulic fracturing. This has also been confirmed by the court. Therefore, Slovenia received threats from the said corporation by way of an action and procedures for the initiation of an arbitral action were even initiated in early October. This is therefore a kind of absurdity, as the country has legally implemented regulations on the protection of the environment and human health. In doing so, it can be understood that the corporate behaviour does not wish to proceed. I repeat, however, that the behaviour of the corporation can be understood that it does not wish to proceed with the procedure, and therefore it would be only logical that the ARSO, which runs this procedure, should also complete it. In the SAB Group, we believe that Slovenia should also follow the practice of countries that have already recognised and consequently banned fracking. This will ensure the health of people, their property and the environment and the unspoiled nature. On the previous proposal, the government was expected to give a negative opinion, as they felt the proposal was not adequately formulated and did not take into account the financial implications. In the SAB Group, we disagree with the Government and assess that the proposal is suitable for further consideration, but at the same time we call on the Government or the authorities in the body to complete the ongoing procedures and to eliminate all these doubts and possibilities for redress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u211	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members on the draft law. The word has magic. Dejan Jedhan, prepare to be Primaj Siter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Good-bye! Indeed, for the third time, we have been discussing a law to ban fracking. And believe me, I really wish that for the last time, that we won't find out in time that we're having an eight-time discussion. I hope, although statistics show otherwise that most of you, and also all the viewers and audiences, who have not yet visited Pomur, Prekmurje, this part of Slovenia, are truly invited when health conditions allow you to visit us. [[…]] When you visit us, you will find out - what? So we can't brag about size. You sit on one of the extremes of Pomurje on a bicycle, and you don't actually warm up well on the other side of Prekmurje. So it's not our advantage to be great. But the advantage is that we know roughly what we want to be. This is what we discussed years ago in Pomurje – Pomurje is the region, by the way, which wants us to get to the regions, from our species. If anything, in Pomour we have become quite united that our developmental strengths are also the following. The first is tourism. In fact, we do not have the best experience with this mastodontic tourism, nor do we. And I am pleased that tourism, based on some other foundations, has recently developed rapidly. Because it is the basic desire of a guest to see the beauty of the landscape, to see culture, culinary and to talk to people. So that the environment needs to be preserved is, in fact, a basic scale for us to continue to develop. It's no longer an advantage, it's a basic ladder. We want to develop more sonar agriculture in Pomura. We are also aware of the sins of agricultural policy, which we are now curing, but we know that future agriculture will be more sonar. Agriculture that respects nature and preserves biodiversity as part of its mission. We in Pomura have a Natura 2000. I'm not among those respected and respected men who would speak of Natura 2000 as a shot to the knee. When I hear the expression Natura 2000, all I get is worried that I have numbers in front of my eyes that tell me how quickly animal and plant species die out. And they're actually dying. That's not a flossule. They're dying. And it's our duty to preserve them, so we have Natura 2000. And we also have the Mura Biosphere Area. And then when we put all this together, we talk about whether we can ban dirty technology for this really little Pomurje. Can we ban dirty technology for Pomurje? Injecting water, sand and dangerous chemicals somewhere deep to get a product that should not be, which we were aware of with the signing of the Paris Climate Agreement, with the environmental, climate signature that we would be a carbon-free society. And then the question of what we're actually doing. I listen exactly when the first speech is, yes, it isn't, but it isn't, and it isn't. Do you know what a precaution is? The precautionary principle, respected and respected, is based on the fact that you fear something credible, that even some thing has not yet been verified. But until everything is crystal clear - in nature sometimes it is difficult to get crystal clarity, as we see most now, when we fight the epidemic, nature has some legitimacy, there is not always one plus one two, it does have some legality, some probability and even deviations. And we're fighting inside this to ban the technology that's dirty. And we can use those words, a little less dirty, a little less dirty, a little less likely that water is about to get poisoned. Yeah, any probability, even if minimal, is too likely. Is that so hard to understand? Therefore, respectable and respected, the Social Democrats have decided to support this law. We also invite the Government and the Secretary of State. There is no reason for me to think that you are like a minister before you who waved – look at the marriage I have, but everything else was in the back, just not the written law. I don't have any reason, because I don't have any bad experience with you personally, and neither does your minister. But, crazy fly, then put it in our hands right now. You know how irresponsible it was of you and me when you said, "Look, I have." That's how you showed it. And you're me in the National Assembly. In the National Assembly, your government was voted by MPs and MPs with a key. It is clear that I do not support your governments, but nevertheless I know that you are the only Slovenian government we have. Never again, please don't do this. This is simply unworthy in Parliament to do so. But if you have this, let's speed up all the procedures, let us support our proposal, which is small, which is non-systemic and can, if this proposal is adopted in due course, also be upgraded in a very timely time. If you look at how quickly you can prepare some laws that seem important to you. They just fly in here. The social partners looked, yes, but where did they come from, what they came from? A large number of signatures are emerging immediately, and an extraordinary meeting at tomorrow’s meeting is in place, with no possibility of people asking questions. Okay, there's a situation like this and you do it. And if you have things really far-reaching, allow us to feel safe because the precautionary principle is important to us and our form of prohibition is accepted. And then come in the morning with your form of ban, we won't want to hear the words, because it's not fracking, it's just a little fracking, it's not just fracking, it's a harmless fracking, we won't want to hear it because in this country we already have experience with manufacturers' claims that poison is not poison, that a harmful effect is not a harmful effect, but it's only the imagination of people. We already have this experience in this country. In fact, the European Union has this experience and has introduced a precautionary principle. Please come and help us to accept our form of prohibition. Come right away, accelerated, next week, if necessary, with your upgrade. I tell you, I don't know if you've noticed, I actually support the laws, even if this government prepares them, if you convince me they're good. Why wouldn't I? We live in this beautiful country, too. Why don't we support good laws? And one day, once again, another coalition that is so different in power, we will want you to undermine what the then government will prepare, the new government. And I'll tell you, I'll support your marriage when he gets here, just let him come. Now we keep listening, he's ready, he'll be systemic. Now, something that has nothing to do with you. By the way, someone said earlier that I was doing something with Mr. Drnovski. Unfortunately, I was not in politics at the time, but I appreciate him very much, and I also remember his words “When I am gone, ” and I will not say anything, I understand what he meant, because he did not mean directly, he meant figuratively, but it really did. [[…]] I don't know Mr. Drnovska. Even if Mr Drnovšek made a personal decision at the time, what we must be aware of is that science is progressing. That something that we think today is entirely in line with all the regulations, that it is not an important precautionary principle, we cannot claim that we will say the same in a year's time. Look at this, how many times have you changed your views about routes, masks and the like in your government, and I'm not telling you. Because today you know things you didn't know a week ago. For the rest of the world, we now know things that we didn't know ten years ago and what we know today. But in doing so, it is not necessarily ten years from now that it is what we think it is. Therefore, on behalf of the Social Democrats, I announce that we will all support this law. I suggest you all accept it. And I'm offering a hand in cooperation with the system law, which, if it's good, let's build it together, write, if you even invite us to any working group, we'll come, why not. And this ban, which we're supposed to adopt in a few days, we're going to upgrade. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Look, it's true, for the third time we've filed this law, which for our terms is not some partial matter that you're always trying to solve if you're going to solve systemically. You've been saying that all along since we've been investing. A little while ago, you waved us away with some paper nobody's seen. And I'm sorry, I don't have any assurance so far that this paper of yours contains anything in the sense that you're going to ban cracking. And you knew very well that for the third time we have tabled this proposal for the amendment to the Mining Act and you are still hiding from us this solution of yours, which is supposed to be systemic, but ours is not worth dealing with because it is partial. I mean, even if you think it's partial to people living in Prekmurje, even in Petišovci, it just seems essential to their safety, to their healthy environment, so that they won't be exposed to any risks if there's a cracking. That's one thing. And I will try to systematically now to respond to all these arguments that are unfortunately not at all, because you haven't made any serious arguments all the time, not this time, even though you may have said more this time than in previous discussions. Let us first look at the financial implications issue. What could be more serious financial consequences than if there was an accident in the event of a fracking? Like what? Last time I explained, the fracking is being carried out, specifically in the Petišovsko Field, there were two wells to experiment with fracking at a depth of 3 000 500 meters. And if there is an accident in fracking at these depths, for example, and there is a leakage of even smaller quantities of hydrocarbons or injected chemicals or other toxic substances into the earth and groundwater, then any implementation of remedial or remedial measures is so easily impossible. And what that means to human health, to human property, to the nature-protected area, to the Mure Biosphere, we can't even imagine what to do. Do you imagine this damage in euros? You keep saying you're being threatened, now I hear 70 million euros. But let's take another look at this threat to this Ascent Resources. Why'd they threaten you? I'll tell you one more time. In June this year, the Administrative Court ruled that Ascent Resources must carry out a prior environmental impact assessment and obtain an environmental permit. And as soon as they heard that, they threatened. Why? Because they don't want to, they don't want to, they deny that we should get this environmental impact assessment. Now you have to ask yourself, why do they object if I see you buying their argument that it's not even a real cracking? Well, if it's not a real cracking, then what are they afraid of? What are they afraid of? Do you see how your excuses are actually prosaic and they really don't hold up? As soon as you ask one question along with it, you'll be subdued, literally as dominoes, all of your quasi arguments. I have heard before even quasi-expertise of Mr Perič, who wanted to tell us that we have no idea that our proposal is professionally uncontained. And then he started exactly these arguments of this corporation, or he started to quote and deceive these corporations with these things. Since we all know that, of course, the difference between shale and sandstones, but we also know that the gas field in Groeningen in the Netherlands is the equivalent of a field in Petišovci, the same structure is there for these rocks, it is in both cases for sandstones. And we also know what's going on in Groeningen, where fracking is done. And it's also no coincidence that so many countries move away from it, prohibit fracking or freeze it, confuse it and so on. Why do more and more countries do this if we all obviously have no idea, as a member of the SMC could have told us before, and we are completely unprofessional in his opinion and so on? Are all these countries unprofessional to do this? Are they? Or is it not true that earthquakes occur in Groeningen on the gas field and that there is a total environmental devastation and that the population buildings have been damaged since the cracking took place? And that's where the Dutch government ordered the cracking to stop in Groeningen. And why would we wait for something like this to happen to us? Or let us ask ourselves further, the distinguished representative of the government, if you say so, in 2022 or when the concession contract expires. Yeah, well, please, if these people from Ascent Resources don't reach theirs, they're gonna sue the country anyway. But you keep talking and you don't think they will. Yes, they will. Because their interest is profit. Their interest is to crack and force this country. They are willing to go so far as to threaten the former minister and his family. These people have gone so far. And it is still not clear to you that this is already completely repulsive and insufferable, that we are still talking to such a corporation who has allowed it. And who would have allowed herself to threaten you if you didn't obviously nod and nod, which is what you're doing right now, because the third time you're planning to reject this amendment of the law, you just don't want to listen to the call from the municipality of Lendava, not to the local population, not to the civil society initiatives, not to us members in the opposition that we're telling you about. You don't listen to anyone at all. After that, Mr Perič here suddenly begins to talk about how we do not know professionally, and suddenly the representative of the government coalition, who has effectively driven away from everywhere, see this in the face of conflict with the covid, what is happening, how experts leave your expert groups and how, in fact, you are actually taking measures that are fatal, literally, truly fatal over a period of time. Well, now all of a sudden, we would have what? Professional headquarters here in Parliament. Then I hear it's politicization. I hear we're, I don't know, populists. I mean, this is really a completely irresponsible policy for those who make such a statement. Completely irresponsible. I would rather not comment on what the Member of the NSI has been saying, because it is indeed insufferable and repulsive. It is really sad that the Members who are creating politics here are talking about not being able to create politics at once. And then if we want to create it, we're politicians. I mean, it's amazing how you're really pretending and cheating. We'd do anything just to make this fracturing stay an option and then make up your mind that it's not a cracking. It is if there is no fracking, then what are you afraid of preventing the cracking. Then let them prove it's not a cracking, and then do what isn't a cracking. But here with this law, it would be forbidden to crack. And that's why we really don't understand why you don't really support it. It seems to me that for starters it would be good for the government in particular not to take for their arguments the arguments of the Ascent Resources Corporation on the risk of cracking in the Petišov field. That would be possible, say, a good starting point for our consideration of how and what. Because, as I said, we're not really in America, we're really not in the game of shale, we're in the game of sandstones, but I've already told you in the case of a gas field in Groningen, what are the consequences of a hydraulic fracturing or stimulation, if that's what you prefer me to say instead of cracking. Maybe you should stop at this point for now. I really don't get it. I really don't understand what we're gonna get out of this. I will only say this: what does Slovenia have to do with not protecting its population, not protecting the right of people to clean drinking water, which is enshrined in the Constitution, not protecting their own natural wealth. And he's protecting some corporation that's going to put 90% of the profits in their pockets. We will not have any financial of this, nor will we have any financial of this, in terms of self-sufficiency with the supply of zero energy, because these are only small amounts of natural gas, and by no means will this almost in any way contribute to our supply of energy, not to mention the acquisition of fossil energy, what we need to eliminate and focus on other sources of energy, if we want to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to pursue the objectives of the European Union to which we are committed, and the objectives of the Paris Climate Agreement. There's not a single intelligent argument, one doesn't make sense of it, except for the risk, the high risk. I'm not saying that anything will happen if they turn there a few more times and then maybe they won't get an extension of the concession, although if you're in power at the time, I'm afraid they'll get that too. But, look, why would you risk it for me? Why not, as colleague of the Jews mentioned, apply the precautionary principle and protect ourselves, yourself, your national interest, your people, the health of our people and our uniques, the Mura Biosphere Area – Unesco recognized it and placed it on a map of pearls, natural ones. Unesco recognized this, and we obviously don't appreciate it, and we're playing with the details we have, and when we mess it up, we won't have much left. Thank you for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u215	Thank you very much. The word is Primoz Siter, to prepare Janja the Servant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u216	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Ministry, good evening! We are now, our generations are in such a very interesting crisis, an epidemic crisis, which is also in the midst of an economic crisis, a social crisis, that is, a health crisis. But it is one other crisis that is even more devastating, one that brings more destruction to the planet and our lives, and that is the climate crisis. The climate crisis is a reality that scientists have been dealing with for the past 10, 20 years at all levels, and it is a reality that has also been accepted by global policy and concluded that something must be done. In fact, we should have done something yesterday, but in the middle of the climate crash where we are, we're just gonna do what we can now. What is this climate crisis, or why? The climate crisis has occurred to the greatest extent due to the use of fossil fuels. Because of the use of fossil fuels, we are in overheating the atmosphere, we are in the face of a break that will cause new and new wave of climate refugees, break economies and destroy economies and already destroy the entire Earth, throughout the planet, a healthy environment for humans. Scientists are the only ones in one conclusion, and that is that the solution is that society needs to be decarbonized, globally. Here we are not pointing fingers at our country or any other or any particular industry, not only at fracking, but generally, globally, as a society we need to decarbonize the planet at all levels. This is a global goal to which, in general, all advanced countries have been united by the signing of the Paris Agreement. That is why this Paris Agreement has already been mentioned this time, and this is why it is so important that we really understand its objectives. It is therefore important that we understand the role that Slovenia has in achieving the objectives, the implementation of the objectives of this Paris Agreement, which says - some of the main objectives I will point out - that the signatory countries are committed to limiting the rise in average global temperatures below 2 degrees Celsius by the end of the century, which is a long-term plan. The agreement plans to limit human greenhouse gas emissions between 2050 and 2100 to the extent that the ecosystem of the plane will carry this forward, or as the agreement itself says that trees, land and oceans will still be able to adopt them. And now one very interesting point of the Paris Agreement says that rich countries will help the poor to adapt to climate change and move on to renewable energy without the rich corporations helping poorer countries to do their dirty jobs, but that rich countries will help poorer countries to move to renewable energy sources. And now here we have this story about fracking, about fracking, which is nothing more than getting fossil fuels, which is what science is all about, global science is one thing, that is harmful to the planet, and that in no way brings prosperity. And believe me, I'm home from Trbovlje, Zasavka region is considered one of the most environmentally degraded regions and 41 years of living and listening to these stories and I know what life means in a degraded region. First of all, because the production of fossil fuels, which is our home in Zasavje, is in itself controversial. Secondly, because such a violent intervention in the environment results in the degradation of the entire region. And now, this fracking is the same story as mining in Zasavje. It will leave behind a degraded environment, which will need to be revitalized, to regenerate 100, 200 years after the fracking is gone. When we talk about Prekmurje and Pomurje, we are talking about the most fertile land with the highest potential for agriculture, we are talking about opportunities for tourism. Forget it all, it all goes away once the environment, once the region is so industrially depraved, when it's marked with one such violent intervention as fracking or in the case of mining, say, Zasavje. And such a region from this story comes impoverished. First, the resources are exhausted, secondly, there is no room here to develop some stories of the format of tourism, agriculture and so on. And what is most painful about degraded regions, and I cheer that Pomurje and Prekmurje will not become, is that when these exhausting stories end, such regions are still looking for a new story for decades and decades, looking for a new identification of what they could do here now that there are no opportunities for tourism, now that there is no opportunity for agriculture, now that there is no opportunity for anything else, because everything is exhausted. And it is only local that I do not go back to contributing to the global crisis. And now my additional message to the Pomurs, the Prekmurs and the Podravci, who are all somehow involved or the hostages of this story of the British corporation with the fracking of us. I can't draw parallels between this northeast part of the country and the home part of Zasav. And here I am critical of all governments so far and their attitude towards these regions. Let's think about when there is an opportunity for development when there are some new opportunities for breakthroughs, either in the economy, in education, in whatever, these regions are usually the ones on the last list. Regardless of whether we tried to set up some stories in Zasavje at any time, it was always a problem to communicate for a few more resources or for better conditions to rehabilitate degraded areas and so on. The northeast of Slovenia has a similar story, I hear. But on the other hand, when it comes to importing some shit when it comes to importing some dirty industry, these areas are the first on the list. But these areas are the most suitable. Either cracking in Petišovci or storing some electro-filter ash in degraded areas in Trbovje and so on and so on, when the development is the last on the list when the trash is at the top of the list. The proposal that we have today at the table, which we have put on the table for the third time in Levica, which we have been calling on MEPs and Members for the third time. Many of you here come here from a degraded, forgotten part of the country. This law is trying to prevent this agricultural, developmental, tourist disaster, not to mention the environmental and health catastrophe, this time in the northeast. And this proposal prohibits, for the first time, the issue of a research permit, and for the second time, the authorisation of mining rights for the use of hydrocarbons by injecting water or water with the addition of chemical impurities. The aim of the law is to prevent the exploitation of the heart, the used part of the country at the expense of some British gentleman who will have only more under the thumb of a health, tourism or other economic crisis in Slovenia. While he will live peacefully in Great Britain, where such filth should not be allowed. This is the story of this project. I, too, will join a number of opposition Members and Members, who we call for reflection and a vote in support of this law, to support a renewed opportunity for a health capital advantage. It is simple to think about priorities in this policy area, ladies and gentlemen. And if anything, this epidemic has now taught us what it means to have priorities on the spot, and what happens if the right priorities, which in this case is public health, are not in place. They only mean collapse. And if in environmental matters we do not make the priority as a society as appropriate, and put environmental health and human health first, then as the environmental crisis escalates, we will face the same challenges, the same challenges and the same collapse of the system as we see in the current health crisis under the control of the government of Janez Janša. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u217	Thank you very much. The list of debaters is changing significantly, so I will list all those who are still registered. The first is Janja the Servant, followed by the Mag. Branislav Rajić, Natasa Sukić, Mateja Udovč, Željko Cigler and Franci Kepa. Lady Janja Servant is not in the hall. Branislav Rajić is not either. The word has Natasha Sukic. [[advertising from the hall]] Okay. Matthew the Widow. She's not either. Gigler's stomach. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u218	Colleagues and colleagues, President-in-Office, Honourable Mr Secretary of State! In fact, what my predecessor Primož said is an important reflection and responsibility of the National Assembly on this extremely important issue that we are discussing today and will vote on it on Thursday. It's a pretty fateful question. The question is, what is the price of this land, of this country and of the people living in it? They may be sacrificed for profit or compensation. These are important considerations today. And the fact is that through whether we will protect Prekmurje, Prekmurce, we will show whether we will be able to arrange and also ecologically recover and step on the side of people in Anhove, in Šostjanje and Velenje, where they want to co-incinerate waste, in a severely degraded Celje, in Mežica, in Zasavje. Will we be able to protect and ecologically rehabilitate these areas of once green Slovenia? I tell you that the municipality of Lendava supports the adoption of a new system of mining law in its area, which prohibits the use of hydraulic cracking in fossil fuels in the area. And the municipality of Lendava asked the National Assembly to pass a mining law prohibiting the use of fracking, hydraulic fracturing. These are people who are aware that this technology will affect their area and lives. This application was signed by Mayor Jože Hungarian. Jože Hungary, a joint candidate of the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia in Lendava, is the mayor. Please, colleagues and colleagues from these two parties, how will you vote? On behalf of the people who gave you their mandate, your trust? Will you vote in the interest of the environment and the people who live here in this country? Although I am aware that it does not matter what the political affiliation of any citizen or citizen is, the constitutional rights arising from Article 72 of the Constitution of Slovenia are important. And this is the legal security that we are fighting for and need to defend in this National Assembly, or if it is to be disrupted, it must be protected. Article 72 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia states that the country is concerned about a healthy living environment, in the eastern less developed and western fully developed part of the Republic of Slovenia, as former colleague Primož said well. And after the constitution, the law sets out the conditions and ways for carrying out economic and other activities and environmental degradation, which we are talking about here, which will happen after the cracking method, world experience shows us this, in the environment and life of people, must be prevented, in Slovenia. In fact, the country that protects its people and the environment is a country that also prohibits the interests of life. That's what I'm trying to say. We must say clear not to environmental degradation and aggressive capital requirements in Slovenia, domestic or foreign, but mostly more and only foreign, after the rapid profits generated by the severe pollution of the environment, the causing of disease and the death of people. I hope that we are aware when we speak to the Committees on Environment and Space or Health or at the National Assembly on Degradation and Life and Environmental Damage of Anhovega, Měžica, Celje, Velenje, Šostanja, and now we will condemn Prekmurje. Colleagues and colleagues, is that why we were given a mandate? I'm sure that's our responsibility! Without talking about Mr Perič from the modern centre of the rules, it is unlikely that there will be negative consequences. Hello? And we need to ban the technology that's dirty and not agree to see if this technology should now be introduced and allowed because it's unlikely to be harmful. And when it stands out here, I will conclude with this, the possibility of a lawsuit by a foreign corporation that we will have to pay 70 million euros. Colleagues and colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and New Slovenia, I ask you: For 70 million we will sell Prekmurje and Prekmurce? No, no, no. The country is not being sold. The environment and life of people against ecological degradation. The environmental destruction by capital for those low, short-term profits is simply not in the National Assembly. Not because we have established this in this National Assembly, but because we have been taught the experience of fracking around the world, even around us. I believe that citizens and citizens have elected Members and Members, who have indeed maintained that minimum of reason, to understand this prohibition, which we want to enforce in Levica by amending the Mining Act, and also supported it. I believe that this will not only be supported by the opposition, but also by many Members or even coalition parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u219	Thank you very much. The word is Franci Kepa. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, chairman. Good-bye to your colleagues! The fact is that this exploitation has not yet been carried out. 2002 was awarded a concession, two years ago it was necessary to carry out an environmental agreement that has not yet been issued and is likely not to be issued, or will be issued very close to 2022 when the concession of exploitation expires. This concession was issued by the government of Janez Drnovska 2002. What parties were there then? Two. And even now, the party that invested this has been in Parliament for six years. How come you didn't get that flash six years ago or maybe a year ago when you were in the government or you said you weren't in the government, you were a non-governmental coalition? The best thing is to criticize and not be around. Why didn't you suggest that one year ago, a year and a half or four years ago if it was so hot? Now that the concession is almost over and the State's responsibility is likely to be null and void, we are focusing on being able to pay by this huge compensation measure. Will you then take responsibility for what you are now investing? Probably not, you'll probably be hiding somewhere again, because you've never taken any responsibility even when you were in the previous government. I think that this situation, as the Ministry has said, will be implemented in a short time and all exploitation and future exploitation will be announced there. I am almost sure that this implementation will not be in Petišovci, as it has not been done so far, and I also think that we are all for not being there. But now it is better not to do so at all, and if so accepted, let it be the responsibility of the one taking over as it is now. Strangely, though, where did these instructions come from when John Janša led the government. How come you didn't get this close last year when Mr Sarec was President and then you didn't invest every week? One has to say that it's just a guess. Are there any other things in the back? Maybe there's some benefit in the back because of that? I don't hope to think about it, but it's strange that you didn't do it one year, two years ago, six years ago. For six years you have been here in Parliament, and you have not seen how much damage is happening, but right now, with Prime Minister Janez Janša, you see how much damage is being done. You didn't see it six years ago, not five years ago, but not last year when you were in coalition with Mr. Charles. However, when this is done, you may say, right under this Presidency, this damage has made them incompetent. I don't know what's gonna happen, but the compensation is almost certain, and this is the water on the mill company that's gonna run its concession in a year. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u221	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Look, honourable Ambassador Kepa, I will answer all of this. So that you don't rely so much on conspiracy theory, I'm really going to give you an exact answer about what and how. Since I am a Member of this Parliament, I have been actively dealing with the issue of fracking since the beginning. You can look at the chronology of my oral questions. We've already prepared this marriage under Charles' government in Levi, but Minister Leben, if you remember, was on the right track. He wanted to stop this thing, and that's why we stopped with our proposal and waited for what would happen. As you know, the Ascent Resources Corporation even threatened Minister Lebn and his family because Ascent Resources doesn't want to do anything, it's even against having to gain an environmental impact assessment. And you have to wonder why Ascent Resources is against it if they're not doing the fracking, as we've heard here today. This is the first question that you Members need to ask slowly there, slowly, you don't have to think about. Secondly, you mentioned that in 2002 the concession was concluded. Of course it was, but you need to know that in those days there really was no data on how devastating environmental impacts on human health are being exerted by fracking. They didn't know it around the world at the time. It was a relatively new technology and it didn't know each other. Now that it's known, a lot of countries one by one are banning it or putting it on a moratorium or whatever. And I've said that before. I'm sorry that you weren't in the hall, that you might hear my opening statement or that you heard it the last time, because it was very similar. In short, these insinuations to benefit me from this, and that's true, I've heard this the second time I've heard it from your mouth today, but that's, I don't know, at least ugly and vile. We do not benefit from this, except to protect the benefit of doing our job for which we have been sent here to Parliament to listen to what people who are calling, what the Municipality of Lendava say. Earlier, your colleague, your mayor, who is the mayor of NSI and SDS, sent an appeal to Ljubljana to prevent fracking. Your mayor did this the last time. You might at least listen to him, if you don't hear people, the local population and all the arguments, and you don't wonder why so many European countries, and not any of them, that's France, after all, the UK, from which the Ascent Resources Corporation is actually coming. This Ascent Resources, for example, can't do a fracking in Britain because the state has banned it. But with us, would you? And so much for compensation, now you say, yes, because it probably won't come. But you see, Ascent Resources, as soon as the Administrative Court ruled this June that Ascent Resources had to carry out a preliminary environmental impact assessment and obtain an environmental permit, threatened the action at that time. If you will give this same corporation this impact assessment, say, at the end of the year Please, dear Mr Kepa, if you will listen to me because I am speaking to you, I answer you. [[…]] I don't know, it's unfortunately in the dialogue of the deaf, but look, Ambassador Kepa, this corporation immediately threatened with a lawsuit. And believe me, if she does, she'll force it to the end of the year. You say so, and then it'll be the end of the concession soon. [[…]] Do you think they don't know that? Do you think they won't sue and say that we stalled, disabled, stumbled and led the matter to a point when they were disabled and had so much and so much cost, but they couldn't draw? They're also going to press charges. So with that, I'm sorry, you're not saving anything. But you're putting it at risk if you put it under the pressure of this corporation and you're putting a lot of stuff on the line. In the first place you place on the cube human health, in the second type of environment, the Biosphere Zone Mura, the environment in Petišovci, clean drinking water and so on. I'm not saying anything's gonna happen, but if anything happens, these effects will be so devastating that they won't be cured. And then we will no longer measure the damage at the level of €70 million, but it is irreparable if it happens. And that's why the precautionary principle is applied. That is why countries are acting on a precautionary principle to prevent the slightest possibility of what is going to happen. Member Perič also mentioned today that water pollution is very unlikely. It's a long shot. The odds must be zero. What is written in the constitution is the right to clean drinking water, but we can't play against the fact that some blackmailing, aggressive corporation that threatened Minister Lebna will eventually cash in big profits, we won't have any of it, even to energy self-sufficiency it doesn't contribute anything. We just can't go through with this. I repeat, if it's not really a fracturing thing, what are they afraid of, then, Ascent Resources in impact assessment? What? And what are you afraid of not pressing the button to support the law that prohibits fracking? If they don't do the fracking, there's no problem. Then we won't be able to harm them with this marriage, will we? But we're just gonna ban the fracking. And they, if they're doing something else, then it's no problem. So look, you see how you get yourself involved in some arguments that aren't. And you're tearing your own story apart. If, once again, if they do not actually carry out the fracking, they have nothing to fear, then let the environmental impact assessment be carried out and continue to extend the concession peacefully for something that is not fracking. In this country, however, we will by law prohibit fracking just in case it ever takes place. Let's do it. I don't know what you're afraid of. Why don't you support the cracking ban? Why? That's the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We are going to the conclusion of the general debate, in which a representative of the Government and a representative of the proposer will be given the floor. The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Chairman for your word. I did not want in any way, as Mr Juden said, that it would be in any way unworthy to show the proposal of the law that we have prepared. But already, although usually the quantity of leaves does not indicate quality, I can tell you that the scope of the problem is really high. We have taken it seriously since the beginning of our mandate and have prepared an excellent starting point that will address both the topic under consideration and the mining in general. We're hiding the marriage, of course not. Now I don't know how you're used to the procedure. When the Ministry prepares the law, it will put it into public hearing this week. You'll all get it, have access to it, make comments. The procedure will, of course, continue to be followed in our country to take account of those comments that are appropriate, to put the law itself forward for consideration. We accept it in the Government and also continue to the National Assembly, where the procedure continues. So it's not about hiding anything. The fact that we explained the risk of fracking at the starting point is absolutely not true. You can take another look at my original starting point or government opinion on the magnetogram. Here absolutely these three articles, which are given, we have given structuredly according to the points what holds, what does not hold, and where is the key problem. We cannot, for there are three articles, the other two concerning transitional provisions – of course, I have no comment on the latter because it is an implementation. As far as the latter is concerned, the fact that we are withdrawing the rights conferred on us under the regulation and the law before that law is already in force, you know that, from a legal point of view, it is controversial and impossible to do so. This kind of start is unacceptable. You can probably imagine if we really did something like this, what it would mean for the rule of law and the legal concept, what an impulse we will give to all investors in all other areas of concessions. In short, from a substantive point of view, we are addressing the issue in an integrated manner. The LMŠ lady mentioned that they do not believe that we are actually going to introduce the law. You can take my word for it, we haven't yet, and we'll never keep it a secret. I think what we said and promised, we did. So from this point of view, you will be able to see for yourself once more that this is the case. That the government doesn't think it makes sense to change the law because of one problem, even if it doesn't make any sense. We have never said that, but the problem is that if there are many other problems besides one, everything needs to be settled, not just one problem. But if there was only one, we'd only settle one. The key point is to make it clear that the opinion of the Government is essentially without concrete arguments. The arguments I have listed can be repeated, but I don't think there is a need, but they suggest that the bill is inadequate, that it cannot be accepted as such, even if we would like to. And, of course, I invite you to take part in the proposal that will go public this week, and we will be pleased to see your cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The text is by the representative of the proposer, Nataša Sukič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u226	With all due respect, you're saying you can't handle one problem in particular. Really? In the last antikoronic package you have arranged the problem of a new university in Novi Gorica, which has nothing to do with fighting covid, but you have incorporated this into the law, into the antikorona package, into a law that even the referendum is not allowed. A problem that has no connection to extend accreditation to some of your friends. So don't tell me you can't fix any problems. And that's not a problem, I'm today, I don't know how many other ways to argue this is a very serious matter. What kind of signals would they give? What kind of signals would we give? Once again, all of Europe gives these signals. Countries such as France, Britain and so forth simply prohibit fracking, no matter how many contracts are under way, how many implementations are under way. Because of Groningen, the Netherlands will stop fracking and 200 companies will pump into the Groningen field. So, please, it's sad when a man listens to you. It's sad when we listen. And why? I'm seriously starting to wonder why. For those 10% of the profits Slovenia will receive and Ascent Resources 90%. So that we don't get around enough energy, and I don't know if a percentage of this natural gas would contribute to this energy self-sufficiency, not to mention that it's fossil fuel. Not to mention that these days it has been exactly five years since the adoption of the Paris Agreement. Not to mention that 33 countries around the world have already adopted a resolution on the declaration of an exceptional climate and environmental situation, the resolution that we need here at last is bloody, even in the light of the fact that the slaughter is only ten years away from a highly probable climate disaster. From the moment the effects of feedback loops will be such that they will no longer be manageable. But then we'll have a global crisis, all together. But then there will be a collapse of the global economy, and there will be such migrations that you can't even dream of, given that you're so busy with migration. In short, there will be world chaos. We need this resolution, the declaration of an extraordinary climate and environmental situation, and we need the follow-up to this resolution. And one of these is definitely a ban on fracking, because it's about getting fossil fuel, fuel that's still contributing to greenhouse emissions. So, the whole thing is, I'm asking you nicely, just a nice word of how we're going to decarbonize ourselves by 2050, how we're going to do it by 2030, I don't know what, we're going to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by how much. Me with what? But if we'd just allowed fossil fuels to be pumped. I really don't get it. It's really just bullshitting me not to say anything else. And once again, we've been filing this law since October, and until today, we haven't seen, excuse me, your system law. I'm sure in this system law you don't prohibit fracking. You didn't specifically say it, you didn't say it, we're going to ban fracking in this law, but you're going to arrange complex matter, and you're going to make a mistake. Yes, of course it's complex matter, but it's very simple to decide whether to let cracking or to prevent cracking, or to protect the health of your people and the health of your environment or not, or rather to protect the interest of some pathetic corporation that is so aggressive that it dared to threaten Minister Lebn and I believe that anyone else would. We will certainly support this marriage. Last time we ran out of time to go through. I am simply knocking on the conscience of the Members and Members, that you have the right to vote in your conscience, not just the right, but also the duty to listen to the people, the people who call on you. People who live there call you, people who get hurt if there's an accident that they have to live there and get ripped out of their environment if anything happens. These people are calling you, our citizens and our citizens. And who cares about the appetite of an Ascent Resources based in some tax haven? Who cares? And you'll be saying that the Left has some interest in the background. You'd wonder where the interests are, if you can't hear yourself so unheard of, if you can't hear yourself, you haven't even heard the National Council, which also called you. I was alone at that meeting, and I know that, with a large majority of them, they decided that cracking must be banned, we all know that, only the SDS party and NSI parties are the loudest, and the SMC, which is more important to the capital interest and some contracts and some concessions in front of their own people. That's all we listen to all the time. This is something amazing, amazing, by the fact that Mayor Lendava is a representative of the NSI and SDS party mixed together. And he called you to stop the fracking, but you don't hear her either. You can't even hear your own people. Once again, of course, we will support this law. I hope that this time we will be able to have enough political will to prevent this disgrace and this horror. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u227	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else would like to discuss it? [[Yeah.]] I'm guessing it's an interest. If you would also like to discuss the representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukič and the representative of the Government, please sign up by pressing the key to turn on the microphone. In this case they will receive the word as the last, first the representative of the Government and then the representative of the proposer. I'm asking you to sign up. Thank you very much. The first one gets the word Gregor Perič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u228	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. I would like to focus mainly on professional arguments. As it is said, the proposer has offered us nothing concrete, so we have turned ourselves to institutions that understand this most. First, we received one document from the University of Ljubljana, namely Faculty of Natural Engineering, Department of Geotechnology, Mining and the Environment, – Expert opinion on hydraulic breaking of existing PG10 and PG11a gardens from July 2018 – the author of this document is doc. Dr. Željko Vukelič, University Graduate Engineer of Geotechnology and Mining. And then we asked the Geological Survey of Slovenia, which, at our request in the SMC, produced an expert opinion on hydraulic fractures of rocks for exploration and production of hydrocarbons to regulate the field of hydraulic fracturing in mining legislation. The document is relatively short, but concise, concentrated and would read two segments. At the end of the chapter on the most recent wells, which I have just mentioned in the field of the Petišovci-Dolina oil and gas field, they state: "In any of the above-mentioned fracture frames at the time of professional and controlled performance, it is not expected that its impact would reach the nearby wells of similar depths, nor to aquifers, including economically important aquifers of thermal, mineral and drinking water. Low volume fractures would not cause earthquakes, ” as we have been listening to all day, “as some areas of high volume fracture in the world are known. [[…]] [[…]] Furthermore, it is not expected that the return water would be increased radioactivity, but of course its chemical components should be monitored. Previously, fractures have not had any negative effects on the environment since 1956.” So this document is concluded with another article. The final expert opinion on the use of hydraulic fracturing states: "For Slovenia, based on the known geological characteristics of the only functioning oil and gas field Petišovci and Dolina near Lendava, and based on the current practice of exploration and production of hydrocarbons in geologically similar environments in the world, there is no reason for us to ban the exploration and production of hydrocarbons, namely oil and natural gas, by hydraulic fracturing. However, research and hydrocarbon extraction by high - space hydraulic fracturing can be prevented, ” this is the American one, “as has been done in many European countries. [[…]] [[…]] For low volume hydraulic fracturing in one or more wells, an environmental impact assessment must be made in advance.« So this famous PVO. This is the opinion of the Geological Survey of Slovenia, signed by Dr Miloš Markič, a university geologist, then mag. Andrej Lapajne, Dr. Nina Rman and others are the heads of the Department for Mineral Materials and Geochemistry of Dr. Meta Dobnikar and the Director of the Geological Institute of Slovenia, Dr. Miloš Bavec. These are professional arguments, I find them difficult to judge because I am not an expert and I believe that many of them are difficult to judge among us, but this is the position of the Slovenian profession. I believe that we all have full confidence in them because they have devoted quite a bit of their time and energy to this area. And now it's only a short one. Croatia, when we are talking about Croatia, for the context that we understand one summary. Only in the fields close to the Slovenian border, Croatia on average produces almost half of the annual amount of natural gas consumed in Slovenia. We're buying it from abroad. And Croatia produces more than 50% of its own natural gas needs, and we only produce 0.5%, and Hungary also has many wells in this area. So I'm just calling for us to be reasonable and listen in particular to the profession, so that this debate will not, in particular, be a debate at the bar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u229	Thank you very much. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica in this part. Jerca Koča has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Good-bye! I'm just gonna tie myself to the forerunner. Of course, there is still a way to respect the profession, but I have already said in my position that we have read many different studies and that the opinions or opinions of the profession are very different. I therefore referred to the application of the precautionary principle. When science is not alone in one point, it is only right that we, as a politician, decide to follow a precautionary principle. However, it is unlikely that even in the 15th or 16th century, when the Idrian mine was opened or there was digging for mercury, no one imagined that such environmental impacts would arise that we would be able to repair today. No one imagined that there would be such consequences on animal life, on plant life, on the groundwater in that area. No one imagined that today such amounts of radon or radioactive material would be measured in certain areas in Idria, and no one, after all, imagined that the country would still have significant monitoring costs today after so many years of mine closure and all the other matters that must be carried out there, so that this matter is practically not self-contained. And probably no one ever imagined the consequences would be the same on the level of fingers, soil and everything that was going on there. So I think, with all the knowledge we have today, it's pretty wise to deny that this kind of activity would be carried out in our area, even assuming that practically our country will have nothing of it, not through the eyes of money, if you want to look through money, but I would like to see that we really don't look at costs in such things. Even in a discussion, a colleague from the SDS mentioned the government of Drnovsk and 2002. To be honest, I don't care what happened in 2002, we are in 2020 today, and if anything, every month or every year, when politics acquires new knowledge, it can make different decisions, because the only constant in politics is change. When you come to a new reality, when you read a new issue, when you consult with various experts, including environmentalists, you have to lay puzzles together and not take into account, perhaps from a geological point of view this is one of the aspects, but perhaps if you asked, I don't know, the Department of Geography at the Faculty of Philosophy regarding the impact on the finger or the soil, you would also get a look at certain experts who are working in their narrow area, and might, of course, attach to the fact that the consequences of such behaviors are visible in nature itself. To say that there will be no consequences is to lie. Of course, there are consequences for every matter, for every intervention in the environment. I am not saying this, but I would like to tell the Secretary of State that I have never claimed that such an arrangement is best and best. However, I expected that, during this time of two months, the ministry might respond, and at the final stage the ministry could also send a letter to the proponents and tell them how this would be regulated and not for the third time again the same session, because I really do not believe in systemicism. As has already been said today, this article can be amended, and then you continue to give public consideration to your entire system law, which will obviously regulate some other areas, and, of course, if necessary, correct this as well. But today or Thursday, we will have the opportunity to move this and in our own way, to force the legislative branch in some way, even in the past, we have seen that things can happen, and they know that some of the official bicycles turn a little faster, because this government has shown that when it has a narrow partial interest in some of its own matters, things move very quickly, but in some other matters it does not. However, as the Secretary of State said, the rule of law and respect for the legal concept, and I am surprised how suddenly the representatives of this government become sensitive when it comes to nature, when it comes to other decisions, the financing of STA, filmmakers and so on, and the rule of law is very, very quickly driven and trampled.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Nick Prebil has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u232	Thank you very much, Vice President. Good evening to you all, colleagues and colleagues! I'll continue where my colleague Korča ended up. Yes, the rule of law suits this government when it needs it, when it does not need it, criticises it on a large and broad scale. We've seen this in countless cases, if I may put it that way. As far as the law that's ahead of us is concerned, I'm not going by by accident. This is an extremely important matter and it is not a question of left, right or middle policy, but of environmental protection and human health. And in the LMŠ we will always defend the fact that human health and the provision of a healthy living environment in which, respectable, we all stay, all seven plus billions of people in this world, this is one planet, let's be aware, unique, there are no 30 of them available to just move from one planet to another, it's one environment and I think we have to look after this environment. And to hear here that these are things, yes, SMC said there, colleague Perič, these are our strategic means, we need to sort these things out in full. Do you know who fought fracking the most? Your Minister, SMC Minister, Minister Leben. He was from your party. What has now changed at this time that the position has turned in a completely different direction, except that you are in the Janša government, where the coalition acts as an extension of this gentleman's term? I understand that you will vote against this proposal, which we have tabled again, but it is a question that is really crucial to make clear what is a priority in this country, that it is an environment and that it is the security of people, in addition to, of course, other things that are now and are currently important. It's also about being talked about all the time, because they use it elsewhere. You know, I find it more difficult to understand that someone is telling me, let's make a mess, let's do environmental damage, that's good for us because a stranger will come and invest here. We have seen cases where foreign countries are significantly larger investors, because you so plead with investors, have renounced such a system of environmental intervention because it is harmful for the country. But you know, even if we get a little bit more gas for this, it's still bad for our environment, not for the Croatian environment, where you say that we buy these things a little bit more now. But the problem will be in our environment and the consequences will be borne by Slovenia, no one else. So, once again, I want or appeal to support such a matter. We have also seen that some members of the current coalition clearly recognize the importance of this issue and that it is not a fight against one another or another, but a fight against the abuse of the environment. This is what we need to be aware of in this country. But I certainly agree here with the proponent – we are not yet aware, I think the whole world is not aware of what difficult period we are still coming to when we will no longer talk about war with weapons, where you will not be helped by 780 million purchases for the military, weapons, some equipment or anything, because we will come to war, when we fight for drops of water, in war, when we fight for food, a war where we will fight for the last piece of the green environment that remains, and for the last part of the clean air. Only then will it be too late, you know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u233	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u234	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. To begin, the Mining Act 1C of 2013 already indicated that certain areas of mining would need to be further upgraded and regulated. Why it took so long since 2013 and who is responsible for it, I would not have let it happen because it is not my responsibility. I would say, however, that it is also a little difficult to argue when we have adopted a mining strategy that was adopted at the end of 2018 and dictates the acquisition of hydrocarbon or oil and natural gas as an important source, it is also the basis of the Mining Act which requires this, and the 2015 Capital Investment Management Strategy Order, which prescribes an important investment in gas production. Why didn't we do something a little different? It was pointed out that the Government or the Ministry should give some instructions to the proposer and then the proposer would prepare the law. We do not place our responsibilities and work on anyone, we have really taken on the subject with full consciousness and have prepared a law that offers a really good draft for discussion and adoption. But, of course, we're dealing with matter in an integrated and systematic way. We do not avoid, as it may have been, the practice of escaping into a famous system regime, and then this system system is missing. We've prepared a system order. It is true, however, that a week, two, three, is not enough for such a broad subject, but a little more because such material must also be aligned with the entire professional public. As for the arguments I have already made, where the biggest problem of the proposed law is, I will only point out two, three, I am already left. Otherwise, if the text is not appropriate, because it essentially allows the injection of all other media, we limit only one piece here. If we actually apply such a restriction, we must be aware that we are essentially restricting or banning drilling wells according to the current method of geological and geomechanical research, as currently being carried out, but we must be aware of it, this is not a matter of the rule of law, this is a matter of legality and a purely legal formulation of the proposed law. For we cannot withdraw concessionary acts which are granted under the law which was in force before the existing law. I think this is the basis from which we need to base ourselves here. To conclude, of course, we absolutely support all efforts to address the issues raised, but here we need the right approach. I would expect support, on the one hand, and I am pleased that many Members have also expressed their support and are looking forward to the proposed systemic change. And here I am certainly once again inviting all those who will have proposals, initiatives that we will also deal with and try to take into account. Again, thank you very much and good-bye.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u235	Thank you very much. The representative of the proposaler Nataš Sukić has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u236	Thank you very much. That's amazing. Is it true, Your Honor, that you're making a fool of us or what? Do you think they would ban the drilling of wells by banning fracking? Are you kidding me?Oh, my God! Fracking is carried out at great depths, at depths, say, 3,000 500 meters specifically in the Petišov field. Now you're going to say that this is what we're stopping to prevent our proposal from drilling wells. I mean, I'm so crazy, I'm sorry, but I've never heard of it. I'm sorry to put it this way. It's just that it's a lot of fun and you haven't said anything in your system law. Did you do the fracking, how did you get this stuff? You didn't tell us anything. Just so it's systemic. We keep hearing it's gonna be systemic. I mean, I mean, that's really sad, because you're not making fun of us as a proponent or me as a proponent, you're making fun of people. From the people who expect us here Members of the people's electorate to protect their health and their interest and their constitutionally guaranteed rights. What makes you think we're here? To protect the interest of some famous corporation Ascent Resources maybe or how? Are we here for people? And once again, I don't know how many times I have to tell you when you're shaking so hard that this Ascent Resources is going to sue us for what's going to happen if there's a disaster, and it's not going to be able to be measured in millions of euros anymore. That's going to be immeasurable. That's one thing. Second thing, colleague Perič is again – how ready. I can bring it, too, and I have read the expertise, which is completely the opposite. That's interesting. Although I don't have them with me right now, I might as well be here. And look, I'm going to comment on this wonderful expertise, because after all, you're getting the expertise that suits you. After all, a few days ago, I was in a session where I had to beat the judiciary, and you got Dr. Avbla's expertise. Look, she was an expert. Maybe she wasn't? She was. Dr. Abel signed, expert. Well, even if it's some relevant expertise, what colleague Perič said, low spatial fracturing and high spatial hydraulic fracturing, if I understand that, this distinction was established. Now you tell me why Ascent Resources is afraid of environmental impact assessments, if that's all right? Why? Answer me a simple question. Why did Ascent Resources start threatening to sue when he found out he had to get an environmental impact assessment? Why? If it's a low spatial fracture. Otherwise, I find it hard to imagine a low-space fracture at a depth of 3,000,500 meters, because these are severe pressures. And under these severe pressures, chemicals are also injected. And I told you what happens if there's an accident at this depth, it's impossible to fix this. That's impossible. There's been a spill of toxic substances that's been compromised by groundwater. Don't tell me it's not a endangered subterranean or anything like that. And strangely, it's strange that now some kind of expertise is talking about this, but it's okay if it's a low-space fracture – even though I don't know, but we've got proof that it's low-space or maybe high-space. However, I still have no answer to the question why, for God's sake, Ascent Resources has an environmental impact assessment problem if everything is so okay if it's not a real cracking, if that's not the case. Why? Why don't they want to? And why are they threatening us because we're demanding it? That's all I want to know. However, I did not receive this answer from the representative of the government and not from the members of the coalition who have gone so far as to obtain a certain or rather praiseworthy opinion, but look, as has been said, I have read the opinions of other experts, including in France, Germany, Great Britain, many countries where cracking has been banned, believe that they have a high-expert opinion that in doing so they have experts who have written these opinions to them. And it's strange that they decided to ban it, but if it's so painless, so benign, so harmless, so innocent. Come on, come on. Really, it's absurd, it's sad. The government representative didn't say anything about what. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate. On the proposal to decide that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will decide on Thursday, 17 December 2020, in the framework of the votes. We're moving to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on criminal procedure within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Magi. Lilliani Kozlovich, Minister of Justice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u238	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members! Before you today is the proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, the new CAP-O. The basic objective of the bill is to ensure procedural conditions for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which the European Union regulation imposes on us. The European Public Prosecutor will indeed be responsible for the prosecution of criminal offences that are detrimental to the financial interests of the European Union and other related criminal offences. Our arrangement, which includes a judicial investigation, needs to be adjusted by means of a so-called prosecution investigation. The new solutions are without prejudice to the basic assumptions of the regulation of our criminal procedure. Another comprehensive set of solutions is changes relating to the situation and rights of juvenile delinquents involved in the implementation of the European Union Directive. In addition, we are implementing a new constitutional case-law and are proposing solutions that follow the effectiveness of criminal treatment, the cost-effectiveness of procedures and the greater transparency of the functioning of justice. Let me put them briefly: a combination of cases is also introduced at the prosecution level in the pre-trial procedure; a preliminary knowledge is provided of qualified prosecutors with essential grounds for rejecting criminal charges for the most serious crimes; a requirement is made for due diligence in the labelling of evidence; the duty of the appellant is introduced to carry out the main proceedings; the possibility of giving separate opinions to the Supreme Court in deciding on a request for the protection of legality in criminal matters is introduced; the possibility of videoconferencing the execution of orders is re-defined; the time limits for the first action of the Public Prosecutor following the receipt of a complaint against a known offender are laid down. The Committee on Justice has also adopted an amendment allowing access to information of a public nature in criminal matters under the Public Information Access Act. The opposition proposes the deletion of this solution, and a day ago, the Information Commissioner also addressed you with an opinion explaining extensively that long-standing regulation and practice are maintained through a new solution. With the opinion of the Information Commissioner, we agree at the Ministry and, of course, I also suggest that you reject the opposition amendment. If business conditions are met, I propose that the third consideration of the bill be carried out at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Justice as the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to President Blaž Pavlin. And I'd like to ask you a little louder because I have signals that sound really bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u240	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Justice considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act to be the parent working body at its 21st session 2. 12. 2020. Representative of the proposed Minister of Justice, Mag. Ms Kozlovich presented the main solutions to the bill in the supplementary explanation of the articles. She pointed out that she wanted to ensure, in particular, compliance with the European legal order and to ensure procedural conditions for the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as special procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings for juvenile suspects or accused persons. The bill seeks to achieve a more rational regulation and a smooth course of criminal proceedings, to remedy problems in practice, to simplify criminal proceedings with civil justice and to improve the current regime with certain minor or editorial changes. In a presentation of a written legal opinion, the representative of the Legislative and Legal Service pointed out that the amendment to the law represented extensive and highly diversified content that was poorly transparent and non-systematic, indicating the need for a comprehensive reform of the law. It further raised concerns about the envisaged introduction of separate opinions by Supreme Courts in criminal matters with regard to the establishment of a deadline for the conduct of the Public Prosecutor's Office following the receipt of the complaint and the mandatory consultation of the State Prosecutor with qualified prosecutors prior to the rejection of the complaint. An additional oral opinion was given on the amendment to Article 14, which introduces in the law a new substance concerning access to data from individual criminal cases, which means, in the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service, an infringement into the entire Criminal Procedure Act, by applying new terms, further confusion in particular as regards the relationship between the Criminal Procedure Act and the Public Information Access Act and is not adequately explained and explained. In view of the purpose of the criminal procedure, it is therefore questionable whether the application of the Public Information Access Act would provide sufficient protection for both the judicial work and the forecasting part of the proceedings in order to adequately protect the fundamental human rights and freedoms of the individual protected in these proceedings. Attorney-General Drago Šketa pointed out that the Act under consideration is already the 15th Amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which gives new powers to state prosecutors, with the State Prosecutor's Office operating in a refractory structure for a long time. The Supreme Public Prosecutor welcomes the majority of the proposed amendments and joins the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on the amendment to Article 14. In their view, anyone, after all, will be able to obtain data from a criminal record under the Public Information Access Act, thereby eliminating the confidentiality of the criminal procedure in its entirety and affecting the conduct of the criminal procedure is taken from the judicial sphere and subordinated to another State authority. He also drew attention to the proposed deadlines for the conduct of the Public Prosecutor following the receipt of the complaint and to the proposed mandatory consultation of the Public Prosecutor with qualified prosecutors prior to the rejection of the complaint. The Committee was also represented by a representative of the State Council, the President of the State Prosecutor's Council and a representative of the Chamber of Lawyers of Slovenia. In the debate, opposition Members stressed that such an important law expected a coordinated, professional cooperation between the applicant and the professional public. However, it was possible to conclude from a number of comments that the proposed amendments to the Act were largely not harmonised. In particular, they opposed the amendment to Article 14, which, with disproportionate amendment and expansion of access to information in the judicial file, denies the concept of the Criminal Procedure Act. They also tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which was not adopted. The coalition Members supported the proposed amendments to the law in their debate. The Committee, by adopting all the amendments tabled and one of its amendments and all the articles, has jointly drafted the text of the amended law in which amendments have been adopted and is an integral part of the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u241	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Janez Moškrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u242	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Dear Minister, all present! Today we are considering the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, which includes the matter of Directive 2016/800 of the European Union, which refers to procedural guarantees for persons under 18 years of age who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings. In this connection, Chapter 27 of the Criminal Procedure Act, which regulates the specificity of the proceedings against minors, is an Slovenian Penal Code on persons under the age of 18 and refers to minors. The Novela also provides action for the European Delegated Prosecutor in Slovenia in the prosecution of criminal offences that are detrimental to the financial interests of the European Union. It is necessary to ensure the consistency of the Slovenian procedural arrangements with Regulation 2017/1939 of the European Union, which applies directly and establishes the European Public Prosecutor's Office or the European State Prosecutor, and preserves the procedural positions and rights of the suspect. The other important solutions presented by the amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act are: a more rational regulation of the pre-trial and criminal proceedings; a solution to the problems in practice with respect to the use of individual institutions; a solution to the problems in practice by introducing new institutions; a meaningful harmonization of the criminal procedure with civil proceedings; an extension of the length of the deadline for the appeal in the juvenile procedure; and an improvement in the enforcement of the regulation with other minor or editorial changes. It should be pointed out that on 2 December the Justice Committee gave a green light to the government's proposal for a new Criminal Procedure Act. The highest number of discussions was expected to be devoted to an article which gives everyone the right to access information of a public nature in specific criminal matters and to an article setting out a 90-day period within which the Prosecutor must take a decision on the criminal charge. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we support both of these legal solutions. Firstly, the situation which was before the judgment of the Supreme Court of Ips 4/2020 of May 2020, which provided that the Act on Access to Public Information does not concern proceedings on judicial or judicial files, will be restored. The situation has led to a legally totally unsustainable situation where the beneficiaries have not even obtained information on the legal judgments handed down by the courts on behalf of the people. Another time. The prosecution's decision on criminal charges follows the need for swift and effective action by the prosecutor. Let us recall that the 90-day deadline is still significantly longer than today's average time to decide on the complaint, which was on average about 45 days. The Law on Criminal Procedure also extends the period for which the main hearing must be resumed in court from three to six months. It also provides, in the light of the example of the Constitutional Court, the possibility of giving separate opinions to the Supreme Courts when they decide on a case for the protection of legality, which should have a positive impact in the long term on the design of case law and on the greater transparency of judicial decision. The value of separate opinions is that, in the long term, a separate opinion can be expressed through the weight of the argument as one that prevails, which is crucial for the development of law. For all of this we will support this amendment in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u243	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors of the List of Marjan Šarc will be presented by Tina Heferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u244	Thank you, Vice President. Nice hello to you all! This amendment to the law is another example of you entering extremely harmful articles into seemingly harmless changes to the law, which should only be adapted to European legislation. Instead of talking about the implementation of the directive and the adjustments to the law by a regulation regulating the European Public Prosecutor's Office, which is also extremely important from the point of view of Slovenian criminal procedure law, three quarters of the provisions in this amendment go beyond those contents by which you disrupt the existing system of criminal proceedings. All of this not only makes the criminal law in criminal procedural law imprecise as I have already said, it introduces into the law, inter alia, an extremely harmful provision which re-orders the examination of criminal files. The Coalition has drawn up an article whereby anyone who submits a written or oral request can look into the criminal record at any stage of the criminal procedure, even during the pre-trial investigation phase. In the LMŠ Group, we have already warned on the parent committee that such an article is harmful and unacceptable, as it threatens not only the quality and effectiveness of the criminal procedure, but it represents a significantly lower legal certainty for persons who have only been convicted of a criminal offence. The worst part is that it also reduces legal certainty for victims of a crime. If I say more plastic, any journalist or, if you like, any politically motivated person will also be able to access the criminal record data, without the victim of the crime or the alleged offender not being able to avoid personal discrimination, and all of this before the court's legal decision. The problem of this provision, of course, lies in the fact that in this article, the coalition, during the criminal procedure itself, takes away the validity and power of the law governing the same criminal procedure and which is, logically, a subjective and systemic law, and thus imposes an ordinary Act on access to information of a public nature. How? By giving the power to decide who will be able to look into the criminal record during the criminal proceedings and what he will be able to observe, in the hands of the Information Officer. And all this, let me stress, is beyond the opinion of the Attorney General and beyond the opinion of the Judge, who is an alpha and an omega of every trial, even a criminal one. It is not possible to ignore the fact that the Information Officer is not a criminal law expert. The law conferring a mandate on the Information Officer does not require that he be educated in law. And, respectable coalition, if such degradation of criminal procedural standards is appropriate for you, then in the LMŠ Group we are justifiably concerned about what such amendment of the Criminal Procedure Act is adopted and for what purpose. If this disputed provision remains in law, we will oppose the proposed amendments in the LMŠ Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u245	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u246	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Some of the amendments proposed by the Government with the amendment of the CAP are, of course, necessary, such as the implementation of the directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings; the harmonisation of our regulation with the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office; the implementation of the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the changes that have proved necessary in practice. However, once again, as several times before, the Government has introduced changes that are extremely questionable, even constitutionally controversial, and on the competent Committee on Justice they have also encountered a wave of criticism both by the State Prosecutor's Office and by the lawyer's representative, as well as by the Legal and Legal Service. The Criminal Procedure Act is a fundamental procedural act of criminal law in our country, so its changes must always be considered and professionally coordinated. The provisions must be clear, well-founded, without any doubt about the procedure. In this proposal, the Legislative and Legal Service has even drawn attention to some of the constitutionally contested provisions, such as the consultation of the state prosecutor with qualified prosecutors. The prosecutor's discretion to decide whether or not to start a prosecution is one of the most important steps in the prosecution process. The Constitutional Court has already held that there must be a decision on whether to bring a criminal charge before the competent court and how it will represent it, a matter of the state prosecutor handling the case. However, the proposed amendment may constitute an intervention in the independence and independence of the prosecutor, which is, of course, unacceptable. Has the applicant given reasonable, reasonable reasons for such a change? In our opinion, no. Furthermore, it is worth noting the dispute over the information of the accused of the reported offence and in the course of the proceedings before the State Prosecutor's Office. I quote: “This regime would be unique and could threaten procedures in the Member States of the European Union.” That's a professional opinion. And at the end of article 14 of the paper on the publicity of judgments and access to information on judicial files. We are aware of the fact that the public of the trial is a fundamental human right that guarantees fair trial and therefore the hearings are public, and judgments are given in public. A recent Supreme Court judgment on access to public records information opened a wide-ranging expert debate. They created two cogs, one supports the judgment, and the other is appalled at it. We believe that in interpreting important public judgments, the Court has quite a discretionary space to present to people in a simple and clear manner key points of judgment. However, in the new CAP, the government, in some way, wanted to correct this judgment, if I may put it that way, has created a provision that raises doubts, uncertainties and erases the guardians of criminal proceedings, which has been clearly pointed out both by the Legislative and Legal Service and by the experts present on the Committee on Justice. This is a situation which could lead to contamination of a number of evidence from the investigation, as the representative of the Bar Association said. One of the problems facing Slovenian justice in recent years is long-term criminal proceedings. In 2019, the frequency of the proceedings or the resolution of criminal cases was extended for various reasons. Therefore, for a long time there has been an idea of a thorough recast of the criminal procedure, as well as of the idea of abolishing the judicial investigation. Therefore, there is a comment on the Legal and Legislative Service, whether it might be time for us to stop with the novelties of the CAP and, after a thorough professional discussion, adopt a new law. We are convinced by the Social Democrats that only the necessary provisions should be included in this novel, while in the case of the rest of the solutions, an in-depth professional debate should be held. We must not allow ourselves to accept such changes as would undermine the independence of the public prosecutors or cause confusion and confusion in the interpretation of the provisions. That's why we won't support this novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mag. Dusan Verbič will present the position of the SMC Group. Here you go. It's your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u248	Thank you for your word, chairman. Minister with coworkers and other present, good evening! Today, at a meeting of the National Assembly in this mandate, we are discussing the second amendment to the Law on Criminal Procedure, which was transmitted by the Government for adoption, this time in a different political composition and with another political institution of the judiciary. Despite the fact that this amendment has as many as 57 articles, the main debate was on an article or amendment which gives everyone the right to access information of a public nature in individual criminal matters and on an article setting out a 90-day period within which the Prosecutor must take a decision in a criminal complaint. A lot of debate was also aimed at the provision to give, in the light of the example of the Constitutional Court, the possibility of giving separate opinions to the Supreme Courts when they decide on a requirement for the protection of legality, which should have a positive impact in the long term on the design of case law and on the greater transparency of judicial decision-making. It brings about an adjustment to the procedural provisions necessary to initiate the operation of the European Public Prosecutor and the European Delegated Prosecutor to prosecute crimes against the financial interests of the Union. The proposal also implements the directive on procedural guarantees for children suspected and accused in criminal proceedings and provides procedural guarantees. Novevela implements as many as two decisions of the Constitutional Court concerning the provision of information to the parties on the names of the Board of Appeal and the time limit for the application to replace the prison sentence by house arrest also at the time of the end of the prison sentence. The novel contains other proposals to rationalise the very course of criminal proceedings. As far as access to information is concerned, we would like to draw attention to the judgment of the Supreme Court of May this year, which took the view that the Law on Access to Public Information does not apply to information from judicial and criminal records, which is why many of the information which has been fully available since the entry into force of this Act in 2003 is no longer available to the public if it does not exercise legal interest. In the SMC Group, we do not agree with the Supreme Court's decision, as it has led to a decrease in the level of transparency in the functioning of the judiciary, which the Information Officer has also pointed out, as well as representative associations of journalists. In the SMC Group, we will continue to support and continue to support all the solutions that go towards reforming the Slovenian criminal procedure in order to increase its effectiveness, increase the role and responsibility of the participants in the detection and prosecution bodies process and strengthen the tools to deal with crime and allow transparency in the functioning of the courts and law enforcement bodies and control of the public over their work. Of course, such solutions must not allow abuse and excessive interference with the rights of the perpetrators and their defence. For these reasons, the SMC proposal will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Željko Cigler will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u250	President, thank you for your word. Dear Madam Secretary, colleague, colleague! In Levi, we believe that we do not need a new law on amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, but it is time for a comprehensive overhaul of the existing Criminal Procedure Act. We need a new law, not countless novelties, which does everything inexcusably, chaoticly, and this reduces legal certainty, which is practically lacking in the mandate of the current government. The current proceedings in the Criminal Procedure Act have been technically similar, relatively extensive according to the number of articles and varied according to the content included in the individual novels. And as a result of such regulation of the rules of criminal procedure, the applicable criminal text is not only very extensive and complex, but mainly poorly transparent, non-systematicly regulated, which raises growing doubts about compliance with the constitutional principles of the rule of law. It has already become a custom to add a number of corrections and alleged improvements to the criminal procedure along with the necessary implementing decisions contained in European rules. And since this is the most important law of any court procedure, it would be a time for the Ministry to draw up a new law. The new institution is a separate opinion at the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia on criminal matters, which was in the process of adopting the previous amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, the CAP-N, and was lined up with arguments. The regulation of the Institute of Separate Opinions in Criminal Matters in the Supreme Court is proposed in this bill in the same text, with the same explanation as in the new CAP-N, which I said was deleted. In this proposal, the proposer did not provide any new reason for such a supplement nor did he reply to the arguments on the basis of which the Institute was drawn from the previous legal novel. And with regard to the proposed provision, the Legislative and Legal Service has made extensive comments indicating that these are reckless solutions, which are also questionable in terms of ensuring the constitutional right to judicial protection. A new quasi-structural deadlines for state prosecutors appear in the bill. In this proposal, it does not take into account the fact that state prosecutors also face very complex cases that require a lot of time to process. Pressure with shorter hands on prosecutors can result in worse work. In the end, the bad work of the Attorney General is also known in court proceedings. Every obligatory deadline that this government imposes on state prosecutors is understood in Levica as a harmful and new form of pressure. We know that members of the ruling party of the Slovenian Democratic Party have problems with the law, so we doubt that their personal interests do not affect the amendments. In addition, the proposed solution to its motherhood falls under the Law on State Prosecutors, so that we are dealing again with an non-systemic solution. Given that we have recently adopted a new Law on State Prosecutors, in which solutions have been adopted with a similar purpose, we wonder if the Ministry's leadership is thinking a few months in advance. There is also a controversial provision allowing for searching the prosecution files. The problem is that there are documents in the judicial and prosecution files that cannot be made publicly available by their nature. Access to documents in prosecution and criminal records is also contrary to several articles of the Constitution, such as alleged innocence, the right to privacy, personal dignity, the right to a fair trial. It is for this reason that there are restrictions within the CAP on who can come to the documents in the file to protect the specific nature of these documents and the fair conduct of the proceedings. In criminal law theory, it is undeniable that the phase of the pre-trial procedure and the investigation are secret and the public of the criminal procedure begins with the main treatment. The fact that searching the D.A.'s files under the Public Information Access Act is intended to ensure transparency of action and control over the work of prosecutors is nonsense. The information in these writings only attracts curious ones. Nor can the public monitor the correctness of the work of prosecutors, as it lacks the necessary knowledge. And the Law on Access to Public Information is a law that provides data on the use of public money, contracts, salaries of employees and officials, short-term environmental issues, therefore, on the management of society. And in many countries, justice is taken from access to information of a public nature, just as personal data in these files are specially protected. That is why we also signed the proposed amendment to article 14 of the proposed law prepared by the opposition in Levica. In Levica we will not support the bill this time, because solutions are inappropriate, unconstant, some even harmful [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u251	Thank you so much, buddy, time. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u252	for the criminal procedure itself. [[…]] We will support a new comprehensive and system-wide law on criminal procedure, but this is not expected until the next government. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u253	Time's up. Blaž Pavlin will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u254	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Have a nice hello to everyone again! The main objective of the bill is to adapt in time the procedural provisions necessary for the entry into force of the European Public Prosecutor's Office and the European Delegated Prosecutor under the EU Regulation. The draft law therefore lays down procedural rules for the operation of those entities within the framework of the Slovenian judicial system. The bill also implements the EU Directive on procedural guarantees for children who are suspects or accused persons in criminal proceedings setting minimum procedural guarantees. These are largely already provided in the applicable legislation and some adjustments are still needed. The deadline for transposition of the Directive into the internal legal order expired 11. 6. 2019, it is therefore necessary to adopt the procedural provisions as soon as possible, which ensure that minors are strengthened by procedural rights. The law also contains other important solutions, allowing cases to be brought together at the prosecution level in the pre-trial proceedings. The period after which the main treatment has to be reopened due to postponement shall be extended from three months to six months. Problems are being solved for the hearing of witnesses of foreigners who have illegally passed the state May, so that they have been deprived of their liberty in another proceeding, by providing for the possibility of bringing such a person who is also a witness in the criminal proceedings to the investigating judge for an extended period of time. The duty of prior consultation with so-called qualified informants shall be laid down prior to the rejection of the complaint. The possibility of full videoconference management of contracts shall be regulated. The duty of the appellant court to carry out the main hearing is more strictly regulated, but proceedings are also being rationalised at a second stage. Following the example of a civil legal procedure, the possibility of giving separate opinions to the Supreme Courts shall be governed when deciding on a request for the protection of legality. The value of separate opinions is contained in their arguments and the arguments contained in them could, in the opinion of NSI Members, be demonstrated in the long term as a dominant opinion, which is crucial for the development of law. The Committee on Justice also adopted an amendment to Article 14 of the bill amending Article 128 of the Criminal Procedure Act. By supplementing the draft law, the relationship between the Public Information Access Act and the Criminal Procedure Act is clarified. Both marriages have not so far clearly answered their relationship with each other and given priority to the marriage. In Novi Slovenija we are convinced that it is necessary to ensure transparency in the functioning of the judiciary, the right to the public of trial and the publication of judgments of the courts. Applicants will again be able to request information from the judicial authorities also under the Public Information Access Act, which does not mean that such information will always be received if disclosure of data would harm the execution of prosecution or constitute a breach of the protection of personal data. Members of the N.N. will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act are primarily necessary in order to comply with the Regulation on the implementation of enhanced cooperation with regard to the establishment of the European Public Prosecutor's Office. In addition, the Directive on procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings is being implemented. The provisions of the law shall be supplemented by providing these persons with special procedural guarantees. As a result of the decision of the Constitutional Court, the notification of the names of the parties to the Court of Appeal shall also be governed and the time limit for the application for the replacement of the prison sentence by house arrest shall be extended. All of these are changes and additions to the CAP, which are not disputed and supported by the SAB. However, we will not support the bill for two reasons. The first, in the form of a less important reason, is to introduce a separate opinion of the Supreme Judges when deciding on a requirement for the protection of legality. Although it may be a minor amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, in the SAB, we have already pointed out in the previous examination of the Criminal Procedure Act that such an arrangement can have an extremely negative impact on people's confidence in the legal functioning of the judiciary and on people's confidence in the rule of law. The same thing was pointed out at the time by the Legislative and Legal Service, and this same provision was deleted from the law at the time, and at the last hearing on the Committee, despite all the warnings made by the shareholders, this same article was adopted. I am aware that a separate opinion can have a great deal of added value when it comes to a separate opinion at the European Court of Human Rights or, say, at the Constitutional Court or in a fair trial. Every time we talk about civil procedures, we're sure. In criminal proceedings, however, there is a statutory or Senate trial and a way of determining uniform case law through a general meeting of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The introduction of separate opinions in criminal proceedings will constitute an exception to the current Senate decision-making regime. The Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out that the introduction of separate opinions by the CAP on the basis of a civil procedure or the Constitutional Court raises legitimate doubts. In particular, it would be inconceivable for the Supreme Court to rule on a judicial judgment when an extraordinary remedy is being examined. For example, the Court would confirm such a judgment, not only at the first stage but even at the second stage, this judgment would be legally binding and then, when deciding on an exceptional remedy, a separate opinion would be given by one of the judges. So one of the judges would have otherwise explained the conviction. And this judgment, which is subject to the highest evidentiary standard in criminal proceedings. In our country, where people already question the fairness of the trial and the independence of the judiciary, can such separate opinions in criminal proceedings help to increase confidence in the work of the courts? In SAB, we don't think so. Another matter that has disturbed us more significantly is once again the subjugation that the coalition has afforded in this law. In dealing with such an important law as the Criminal Procedure Act, the system law, there was suddenly an amendment before Members, which essentially denies one of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. Article 14 of the bill requesting the coalition to give everyone, including third parties, access to information contained in criminal records. I would like to point out that today's seductions continue. We are not talking about the public of judgments or the public of the work of the courts, about how much they are doing, what they are doing, where individual proceedings are taking place, no, we are talking about the access of third parties to the content of the criminal record. In doing so, the coalition falsely relies on the Supreme Court judgment of May this year and interprets it as if this judgment relates to judicial decisions. The decision that I have before me and can be looked at by anyone who wants it is by no means a provision. All this judgment provides is that, in the case of a criminal record being examined during criminal proceedings, a judge shall determine whether or not an inspection is permitted, and not someone else. In fact, this provision has been overtaken in the coalition and has now been allowed to intervene in criminal proceedings before the case is legal, irrespective of the domain of innocence, irrespective of the protection of the dignity of the individual, irrespective of the fact that a criminal procedure can be contaminated. Against this, both the Supreme Court and the Prosecutor's Office, both the Prosecutor's Council and the Bar have been warned. There's nothing left. Once again, a coalition with a harmful amendment overpowered the system's system and threatened a very functioning system to look into the criminal file. We will not support this marriage in the SAB.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u257	Thank you very much. Branko Simonovic will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u258	Thank you very much for your words, Vice President. Nice greetings to all present! Crimes are increasingly complex and complex, and if we are to achieve the effectiveness of prosecution and the result of epilogues of judicial proceedings in accordance with the constitutional principle of the rule of law, it is in the field of legislative purpose and necessity to adapt and improve it, both in terms of criminal, procedural and substantive law. There is probably no one among us who would not want the law enforcement and judicial branches of power to work in such a way that justice is served. To achieve this, all of these stakeholders, who are part of the persecution and the creators of the rule of law, must have all the leverage to enable their mission to be achieved to the greatest extent possible. Of course, this is what citizens and citizens expect. The responsibility of the police, the State Prosecutor's Office, the judiciary and others who meet and are involved in the deviant conduct of individuals who are mature in criminal proceedings is in the maximum contribution they make to the work they do. However, the responsibility of the legislative branch of power lies in the provision of effective tools and legal bases to satisfy justice. The proposed amendment to the Criminal Procedure Act, as assessed by the Desus Group, also follows the trend towards improving the procedural part of the normative rules of the criminal area. The bill brings many welcome amendments and additions, which will in general upgrade and improve in criminal proceedings, and ultimately follow the commitments made in the Coalition Treaty, so that we will support the members of Desus. The objective of the constitutional desire for the name composition of the Board of Appeal is to be pursued. We are duly adapting our legal order to the European legal order concerning the functioning of the European Public Prosecutor's Office in the prosecution of criminal offences in the field of suspected misuse of European funds and the provision of procedural guarantees for children suspected or accused in criminal proceedings. Rationalisation of the criminal procedure for the merger of cases already at the prosecution level in the pre-trial procedure and the possibility of videoconferencing orders has a wide range of positive aspects, a greater cost-effectiveness of the procedure, both on time and on cost scale. We are also following the protection of public interest through new definitions and mandatory awareness of qualified informants, with the intention of rejecting the complaint and the essential reasons why the State Prosecutor will be forced to do so. The same solution is provided for individuals in the case of allegations of worse crimes. There will be greater transparency of the criminal record through the introduction of rules, content and manner of regulating the request for judicial investigation and indictments. We could also list the useful substantive acquisitions of the novel proposal, but let me point out only two more. Firstly, the novelty brings a very important novelty, namely the possibility of giving separate opinions to the Supreme Courts, in the event of deciding on a requirement for the protection of legality in criminal matters. Given that the public articulation of the opinions of the judges underlines their independence of action, thus increasing transparency and strengthening judicial practice, it is also seen by Members of Desus as a welcome change to our legal system. Secondly, as regards the issue of access to information of a public nature in individual criminal matters, we believe that, in all given safeguards and in the pursuit of proportionality between access to information on the one hand and the protection of participants, and the security of further proceedings on the other, the competent authorities will play a key role in deciding on this and, of course, the information officer. The Group of Members will give support to the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Dusan Šiško will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u260	Your Honor! The current Criminal Procedure Act was adopted in its basic version in 1994. To this day, it has been changed for the 15th time. The Criminal Procedure Act is the backbone of the legal system. That such a provision should be amended for a period of less than one year is contrary to the rule of law. Voters are virtually impossible to explain why such frequent changes are taking place in such an important law, rather than its contents. The law must be clear and transparent, because it must be understood by every citizen. This is certainly not the law under consideration today. This is a matter of extensive and important changes and its content is therefore contrary to the rule of law, since it is no longer a clear regulation. We have a major problem with the European public prosecutor. Article 135 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia clearly states that we have a state prosecutor. This is certainly not the case with the European Prosecutor. By conferring authority on such European institutions, we are violating the sovereignty of our country. Let me say that the European State Prosecutor is governed by a European regulation which has not been implemented by all Member States. For example, the Visegrad Group did not agree to renounce part of its sovereignty in the criminal field. There is no way that we can agree to give up the part of our sovereignty in return for us to please the European Union, as the current examples elsewhere in Europe show that the European Prosecutor of State is not a necessity, but merely a good thing for the greatest so that the latter can have control over the countries. The problem with the content of the institution under consideration is also the discontinuation of an investigation, which is part of the tradition of our criminal justice system. These are essential innovations that should be solved in a weighty and new law rather than in a novelty. There are also problems with the proposed new Article 14, as the law is being amended because of one case that occurred this year. It is true that the legislator's response to the problems in practice must be hypne, but we believe that such material would, if it were, be regulated in the Law on Courts. The Criminal Procedure Act should only be amended to the extent necessary in particular to ensure the rights of the accused. This law is the only defender offering protection to accused persons in criminal proceedings against a country which, with all its repressive apparatus, is disposed of by an individual who is in criminal proceedings. We note that, on the basis of the current content of Article 14, the functioning of the National Assembly will change significantly in the future, as the Law on Parliamentary Investigation also relies on the rules of criminal procedure. The criminal procedure should not be used to play in the way that all governments have done so far, since continuous amendments do not ensure the clarity of the regulation itself. Citizens will be particularly disadvantaged, as such an imprudent law does not allow them to be sufficiently clear about their rights. Dear colleagues, those who are present, and those 42 who have listened to me, I thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u261	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the SAB, LMŠ, SD and Levica groups of Members. Anybody want to talk? I see it's an interest. I'm asking you to sign up. Three reported, 13 minutes. Is that enough? He won't? Bo? Then we begin the debate. First he gets the word Masha Kociper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u262	Thank you, President. I suggest we spend this time, if we don't, we'll just continue tomorrow. I'm here, and I'm ready for this debate. But I will start with what I started in the position of our parliamentary group, it is a shame that well-prepared laws, hard-prepared laws that introduce good things, directives, some important things for procedures, for the protection of certain rights and so on, then, like the PKPs, they destroy with some provisions that cast a bad light on everything. We have a particularly bad feeling about Members in the event that some serious infringements into a system law such as the CAP take place at the last minute in the form of an amendment to the coalition. In this case, it was an amendment signed only by SDS and NSI. It gave us all the hope that the content of this amendment would not be accepted, but, look at the fraction, despite all the warnings from the section and members of the opposition, the amendment was adopted. What's this all about? It is a matter of having some legal experts, such as quite right-wing, but I will not, by name, warn that a judgment of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia is being interpreted in such a way that the courts have begun to restrict access to judgements, mostly judicial judgments. From one such event, or if there were two possible, I don't know, we have come to have an article in our law now, beware, in the Criminal Procedure Act we now have an article that says: "No matter what the provisions of this law are, but the Act on Access to Public Information applies to the examination of criminal records." It is said that in the midst of a criminal procedural law, one amendment is said, which is now adopted at this stage unless the second amendment which denies this article is adopted. What is in fact governed by an article which is now being denied by this amendment and which has been overtaken by the provisions of the Law on Access to Public Information. It determines what has always been laid down in criminal proceedings. It determines who can look into the criminal file, not in the judgment of the court, but not in the legal order, as interpreted, but who can look into the criminal file, while the proceedings are still ongoing, and this existing article in the CAP determines who decides which views are allowed, which documents may be made available for inspection. Logically, this has always been the case, during the course of the criminal procedure on what can be removed from the criminal record, what can be seen, the judge and the judge in the case, and after the end of the trial, the person responsible in the court. I find this arrangement very logical. For a coalition that didn't listen to the warnings, it's obviously different. They believe that the Act on Access to Public Information can also be applied during criminal proceedings for access to this file. For those who do not know him, this is a law which stipulates which third parties, including the media, can observe and allow this transparency to the public, it would be said. Of course, I admit, even with the Access to Information Act, there are many safeguards, certainly, but it is a fundamental question of what we are doing with our legislation and how we treat it, as the President of the Supreme Court would say, and how we are "knocking on it" – this is the last time he has used them – and how such interventions come into law. In doing so, they refer to the Supreme Court judgment, which is still fully misinterpreted in the coalition, and they say that this judgment has led to the fact that it must no longer be examined and obtained legal judgments. That's not true. This judgment only sets out and everyone on the website can see this as regards the possibility of persons to look into court files and other bodies as the nature of special regulation of the procedural law, namely the CAP and not the ZDJZ. This refers to both prosecutions and information contained in the prosecutions or court files in the probative cases, the correct judgment. It may only be used as a more general provision in those cases and in relation to access to those formations to which access is not regulated by that procedural law. That's what this judgment says. However, some interpret this judgment as no longer making the courts transparent, and it will no longer be available from the criminal records and will never be able to obtain them. And they were never available. So nothing's changed. The only thing that seems to have happened is that the court or two, because of this judgment, did not want to put out some legal judgment, which is wrong, I agree. The public must have access to and have access to legal judgments. And under certain conditions, the public may also look into illegal cases concluded at first instance if it is judged in a court of law that the public interest is sufficiently high and that the conviction is given to the accused. What shocks me most is that I understand that Members are not aware of the criminal procedure and the procedural rules so far, but when all experts, the Supreme Court, the Prosecutor's Council, the Supreme Prosecutor's Office and the Bar Association, watch out, lawyers say that this is harmful, and when Members, those of us who are lawyers, try and explain very logically and understandingly and slowly what the problem is, no, they just squeeze something that we don't think is okay. A representative of the Bar said: “In criminal records it is theoretically possible for someone to see evidence, photos, witnesses who will be able to use them.” It's theoretically possible. In practice, I hope this doesn't happen. But we have to do waterpoof laws to make sure that whether this can happen or not is decided by experts, judges, but not by someone, some person authorized to access information of a public nature, or I don't know who else then. The Commissioner is here, of course, in a different position. Her position is clear. She thinks that insight and information of a public nature is always possible. As you know, this same information officer has also decided that we should look at our votes on the President of the Government, although the Constitution provides that such a vote is secret. The Constitution stipulates that. I hope I haven't been too long. What I mean is that, despite all the warnings, such an article has now been adopted on the Committee. However, I ask the coalition Members to consider whether such a solution is appropriate. We in the opposition have drafted an amendment that brings the matter back to its former state. It is said that only a judge can still decide on this matter, an examination of the criminal record. And if you accept this amendment, things can be what they always were and they worked. However, if anyone does not wish to give legal decisions, other instruments and other sanctions are available to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u263	Thank you very much. The word is Tina Hefferle. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u264	Mr Vice-President, I would have a procedural proposal. I've prepared for this debate a little bit more extensive than for three and a half minutes. Our Group of Members, please, if this time, as I speak now, is counted in the procedural proposal. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u265	Yeah, okay, you guys keep talking.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u266	Our Group of Members has also reported more than 3 minutes for the debate, and my colleague is behind me. And I really suggest that we end this session now at this point and we all begin to rest and fresh in the morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-12-15-SDZ8-Izredna-53.ana.u267	Okay, thanks for the suggestion. We'll take it into account. I interrupt the debate and the 8th item of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 9:00. And they're continuing with Tina Hefferle and Nick Prebil. I want to have a nice night.
