ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Andrej Reich, Franz Kramar, Matjaž Han, Mag. Bojana Muršič, Just Bevk, Dr. Franz Duck, Rudy Bear, mag. Dejan Židan, Soniboj Knezak, Jani Prednik, Aljaž Kovacič, Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Violeta Tomić, Marko Bandelli, Maša Kociper, Vojko Starović and Marjan Sarec. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of agenda for the 41st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda today, 10 July 2020, by reference to the meeting. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal of the item from the agenda or proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. [[advertising in the hall]] A few minutes off? Five minutes off. If the device works, respected colleagues and colleagues, then we shall proceed with the meeting. Apparently, it was a very bad mistake. [[…]] Okay, five minutes off. We'll pick it up at 6:40. (The sitting was suspended at 18.32 and resumed at 18.40.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u2	Dear colleagues! We are moving to a vote on the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members present, for 61, for 7. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 41st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legal referendum on the law on intervention measures for preparation at the second wave of COVID-19. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mateja Ribič, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Equal Opportunities.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Dear Members and Members of the National Assembly! We are in a situation where we need to take the right solutions to existing and future challenges quickly and effectively and for the benefit of citizens and citizens. The Act on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave covid-19 mitigates and eliminates the consequences of the natural disaster of the epidemic on the economy, public finances and citizens. In short, I summarise the main measures or solutions of the Law on Intervention Measures to prepare for the second wave covid-19, namely the extension of the waiting measure, the fixing and payment of the remuneration for a certain quarantine, institutional protection measures, the mobile application for communication with the infected, and the extension of tourism providers in which the voucher can be cashed. In order to maintain the employment of workers and to prevent redundancies, the law provides for a certain extension of the remuneration of workers on temporary leave. In fact, the measure of partial remuneration has proved to be effective. For the month of June 2020, the Institute received almost 11,000 applications for almost 65,000 people. This measure shall be effective from 30 days. 6. 2020 expired and, given the number of applications in June, such a measure is necessary, otherwise there is a real risk that the number of unemployed will increase dramatically in July. Employers are expected to benefit from a job-waiting measure in the future, and the adoption of this law or the extension of the measure is essential in order to address the insecurity of employers and workers and to prevent a drastic increase in unemployment. The following measure is to fix and pay compensation for a certain quarantine. The purpose of the law is also to mitigate the effects on the worker of a certain quarantine in the burden of the employer. A worker who is quarantined and cannot be assigned work at home, labour law imposes payment of salary for absence. The payment burden law is passed on to the state budget. In this way, employers will have the possibility to enforce the remuneration even for these cases. The law provides for different amounts of compensation, depending on whether the worker is quarantined at the border or is determined by contact with an infected person or by contact with an infected person in the context of the performance of his or her work as an employer or by a public servant. The quarantine measure will continue to apply from the date of application of this Act and it is essential that the adoption of the law should put an immediate burden on the employer to pay the compensation for a certain period of quarantine. At present, the employer is the one covering the burden of payment of remuneration due to a certain quarantine. Financing of additional personnel. This measure concerns additional human resources support to social security institutions in the public network and the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. As you know, the homes are staffed, which consequently reflects the quality of the care and burden of employees. With the law, we have managed to provide 31 million to deal with the human resources crisis over the next two years. It is very important that staff reinforcement and improvement of standards in homes will not be placed on the salaries of suppliers, nor will it require an increase in supply prices. This measure must also be implemented as soon as possible in order to enable the early recruitment of additional staff and thus relieve employees in social security institutions, which is also important in the case of the possible absence of employees who are ill for covid-19 disease or who are absent due to a certain quarantine. We are aware that a second wave of infections can be repeated and we want to do everything we can to prevent the closure as we witnessed it in March and April. The mobile application is intended to prevent the spread of covid-19 infectious disease, and the law therefore provides for the establishment and operation of a mobile application to inform persons who are in contact with SARS-COV-2 virus. The draft law provides that the installation and use of mobile applications shall be voluntary and free of charge, except in cases where an individual is quarantined or is confirmed to be positive for the virus. In this case, the mobile application must be installed and a random code must be entered. The bill also makes it possible to cash in a voucher for seasonal tourism providers. The bill before you is a response to the real need to maintain jobs, to provide additional resources for the necessary additional staff in nursing homes and to provide security for citizens through an online application at a time when the threat of the epidemic is not over. The adoption of the law thus constitutes an urgent measure to mitigate and remedy the consequences of the natural disaster on the economy and citizens. The law thus refers to the content in respect of which, in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum is not admissible because the demanding law constitutes the law on emergency measures to ensure that the consequences of natural disasters are remedied within the meaning of the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u4	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the left-wing group, a colleague of Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u5	Thank you very much, President. I'm a good-bye! As we have seen several times, intervention laws always present a dilemma, to what extent and how often it is permissible to limit the right to a referendum. We had a clear position on this issue in Levica all the time. Even before this government, we were against the amendments to the referendum law and the people's initiative, and with this government we were even more opposed mainly by the possible abuses of this institution, which takes away people from the possibility of disagreeing and overseeing the work of the legislative branch of power against abuse. At the time of your adoption by virtually a majority in this House, we have voted only in Levica against the amendments of the ZLRI, and we have pointed out that there can be provisions for the government at such or different points in the laws for which it will propose such a decision, which do not fall under such laws. And that's what we're witnessing today. The Act on Intervention Measures for the preparation of a second wave covid-19 is an exclusive example of such abuse of this institution. It is an example that has been pointed out by the Information Officer, the Institute of Criminology, other organisations and other individuals, and in particular our Legal and Legislative Service. This law in this second part, or in the fourth chapter, when it introduces a mobile tracking application, regardless of how we hear that it is a voluntary matter, that it is an effective matter, and it sets out in its arguments a false dilemma in the government, or an application or a complete imprisonment of public life, the Legislative and Legal Service tells you nicely in its opinion that a third of this change is intended precisely to apply to a disproportionate measure, that it is a measure that violates or violates at least five articles of the Constitution. Of course, what is crucial is the question of temporaryity. The legislative and legal service raises the question of whether there are sufficiently clear provisions that impose on when such a measure will cease to apply. In all these respects, the second part of this intervention law is entirely contrary to the sense of admissibility or inadmissibility of the referendum. A mobile application that has proven to have no effect if we look at practice in other European countries, in France and Germany, an application that actually hides the inability of this government, which hides that it has not been capable of government in the past months, when we face an epidemic or this epidemic we are facing today, to invest more in homes for older citizens, to try to alleviate the problems that have occurred there, instead of preparing lists that the elderly would not be sent to hospitals. It has done nothing to strengthen the health system, has done nothing to significantly increase the number of tests that could actually better control the spread of the epidemic. She didn't do anything until a few days ago to increase her quarantine controls. We have now seen that these things can be controlled in this way. This application is simply sand in the eyes, an instrument which means a genuine grave attack on the constitutional rights of individuals, which means that we will give our data to the authorities without any safeguards. This is also pointed out by the Law-Legal Service, which is pointed out by the profession. From this point of view, this law is totally inappropriate in this sense in view of the inadmissibility of the referendum. For these reasons, and for any other reason in Levica, we will not support this conclusion.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The word is given by the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats, colleague of Tadeja Sustar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u7	Dear Mr President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Yesterday we adopted measures prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare for the second wave of coronary infections. The key measures of the law are the extension of the temporary waiting period, which will also apply in July and can be extended twice by the Government until 30 September 2020. The employer receives 80 % of the remuneration from the country, which greatly reduces the wage burden for the employer. The second measure concerns a quarantine compensation, whereby a worker who has been quarantined for contact with an infected person in the context of the performance of the work shall be compensated for the salary he would have received if he had worked. If he is quarantined for leaving the country on a yellow or green list, he will receive 80 % of the remuneration if he goes to the country on the red list and will therefore be quarantined, the worker will not be entitled to the remuneration. The third measure concerns the use of a mobile application to prevent the spread of coronary infections. The fourth measure, however, provides the necessary additional resources for social welfare institutions, which have played an important role in caring for people at key moments of the epidemic. Article 90 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on laws referring to emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In accordance with Article 8 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, a mass outbreak of communicable disease is also considered a natural disaster, which means that addressing the consequences of the epidemic and preparing for a new wave of covid-19 meets these criteria. 21.a Article 21a of the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative governs the procedure followed by the National Assembly in the case of laws dealing with the consequences of natural disasters. These are cases of laws that solve the fates of people and social welfare institutions sometimes severe natural disasters. When we weigh between the right to a referendum on the one hand and the fate of the people on the other, this time we must weigh in favour of saving our citizens in these times of crisis. I also recall that the law on the referendum in these cases also provides for a guardian in the form of a requirement to assess the constitutionality of the law. This strengthens our conviction that today's decision at a sufficient level in these difficult circumstances also respects the right to a referendum. Therefore, in the New Slovenia Group of Members – Christian Democrats we welcome the decision that the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government, will adopt, in accordance with the provision of Article 21a of the ZRLI, first paragraph, by which we will find that the referendum is not allowed to be declared. Not because we don't want a referendum, but because we want help to come to individuals and businesses as soon as possible. Every day would be too long in those days. I would also like to thank the Council of State, which has not postponed the decision, but is aware that Slovenia and Slovenia and our economy need to act as soon as possible, will not demand that it be decided again. It's a state-of-the-art decision. It especially puts us all on the test of an outbreak of contagious covid-19 disease. At the same time, I appeal to all of us decision-makers to shrink our species and, as we have done many times before, to show citizens and citizens unity, because we must be aware that only together can we defeat an invisible enemy. Let the legislative process be terminated at this point and the law take effect as soon as possible. The proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum will be supported by Christian Democrats in the New Slovenia Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, a colleague of Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u9	President, thank you for your word. It's a nice greeting for everyone! Yesterday we adopted the draft law on intervention measures to prepare for the second wave of COVID-19. In addition to many claims that further action is necessary, we have also heard some indications. Among other things, we need a new law because the previous intervention measures were not in line with what we wanted or were not good. However, all the measures that have been taken so far to resolve and resolve the urgent social and economic hardships of both citizens and citizens, as well as the economy as a whole, simply cannot be bad. In the DeSUS Group, we have estimated that this time the government has taken a responsible approach to preparing for a possible new covid-19 virus wave. It has put in place meaningful measures that have allowed us to see the future peacefully in the coming months. To fill the time gap in the follow-up and to prevent the possible consequences of delaying people, the economy and public finances, the early implementation is so urgent. Surely we all want this test, which has brought us the epidemic of the new virus, to pass as soon as possible, but we will have to get used to it in another way of life. Solidarity, tolerance and mutual understanding are therefore all the more important. The responsible conduct of both possible infections and when taking the necessary measures will enable us to be successful as a society. The draft decision has a legal basis in Article 90 of the Constitution in conjunction with the new Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative. Accordingly, the National Assembly may, on a proposal from the Government, adopt a decision to establish that the referendum is not admissible because it is a law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of a natural disaster under the assumption. There is also no longer any objection to the veto of the State Council. For this reason, this time, as for all intervention packages, our Members will also unanimously support the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum call.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The text is by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, colleague Eva Irgle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u11	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Yesterday, we confirmed the Law on Intervention Measures to Prepare for the Second Wave of COVID-19, which is prepared with a view to making the most of the consequences covid-19 has on society as a whole. By law, we want to alleviate social distress, save the economy and ensure timely detection and prevention of the spread of infection. The key solutions in marriage are as follows. The waiting period shall be extended. The law provides for remuneration for a certain quarantine. It provides an additional €31 million for institutional protection. It introduces a mobile application to communicate with infected persons with a view to protecting human health and to enable epidemiologists to do their work even more effectively. I am also pleased that this government, like the third anti-korona package through the Economic and Social Council, has indeed led an excellent dialogue with the social partners and then coordinated most of the measures with them. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u12	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of Members of the List of Marjan Šarc, a colleague of Tina Heferle.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u13	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Today is the week since the amendment of the law on referendum and human initiative has been adopted, we have decided on a decision prohibiting a referendum for a law. Otherwise, the purpose of the legal and constitutional regime is to prohibit a referendum with regard to certain laws. The Constitution states in Article 90: "The referendum shall not be permitted to be declared on the law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters". When it comes to some intervention legislation to be adopted for the sake of the above, such a measure, i.e. a ban on the referendum, is entirely on the ground. A completely different story is when it comes to a law that is not of an intervention nature or when it comes to a law that hides under the cover of intervention legislation changes that unduly and disproportionately interferes with the Constitution, in constitutionally guaranteed human rights and fundamental freedoms. Let me read this: “In the LMŠ Group we have pointed out the danger of abuse of such legislation, since every time a coalition majority can vote a decision prohibiting the referendum in any law that the Government or the Government may propose in laws that are not of an intervention nature and which would justify such a decision in principle include certain legal provisions that are not interventional and even permanently interfere with the systemic regulation of a social area. Restricting the referendum initiative on such a marriage text is excessive and would almost certainly be unconstitutional at the time of constitutional judgment. That the law on which the Government wishes to prohibit a referendum initiative is not allowed to place other content that is not of an urgent and interventional nature, we have warned in the LMŠ- and have remained in the opposition since the beginning." I just read literally part of our position, which we presented when we discussed one of the last conclusions to ban the referendum. And things obviously don't change, either in the fourth anti-Korona law or in the seventh draft of the decision banning the referendum. Today we ban people from having the possibility to make a declaration at a possible referendum whether they want to have legally mandatory use of a mobile tracking app or not. If the applicant had acted in good faith in the legal definition of this application, he would not have pushed these provisions into intervention legislation of a socio-economic nature, but would have regulated it in a specific law, in a specific legislative procedure, and in particular would have regulated it more precisely and proportionately. But in this case, the government would not have an alibi to propose a decision prohibiting a referendum initiative. The government is re-absorbing this institution today, and the coalition MPs are blindly following it again. Of course, we will not support this decision mainly because it concerns a law that contains constitutional provisions which, in our view, are unacceptable to people's privacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u14	Thank you very much. The text is given by the Group of the Social Democrats, a colleague of mags. Marko Koprivc.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u15	President, thank you so much for your word. Dear Secretary of State, honourable Members, honourable Members! As has already been said, yesterday the National Assembly adopted a so-called fourth antikron law, a law that would in some way try to mitigate the consequences of the renewed wave of coronavirus, which is already between us. As in the first three of these packages, social democrats, together with the entire democratic opposition, have tried to cooperate actively and to improve only legal matter. Unfortunately, the majority or almost all the amendments we proposed were rejected. Obviously, the coalition does not want to hear positive criticism or suggestions for improvement. Although many measures are very good, even the so-called economic and social work that is trying to help people improve the situation they have been facing as a result of the crisis. Our key criticism was that the measures were too short-term, that they should be extended for a longer period of time, in order to take care of so-called independent entrepreneurs with a subsidy no longer in force, despite the fact that the crisis is still on the table. As we said, we were unfortunately unheard of. The big problem with this law is that there is also matter in it that does not at all belong to this law. It is the so-called introduction of a mandatory mobile tracking application for citizens and citizens. That this application, as you propose, is unconstitutional to interfere with the human rights of citizens and citizens already acquired, has been warned by many: both the professional public and Members, the Ombudsman, the Bar Association, the Institute of Criminology, the end of the European Union and many others. Unfortunately, the coalition didn't want to hear all these criticisms. As a result, the Social Democrats have not supported the proposal, and as a result, we will not support today's procedure, which would somehow bypass the possibility of a referendum. As far as this procedure is concerned, which has already been said to be possible in exceptional circumstances to prevent the possibility of a referendum being convened, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly has pointed out that there are also elements in the law itself that do not belong to these urgent content that might circumvent the referendum. One of these is certainly this mobile application, which in some ways places Slovenia among countries that tend to over-track and monitor citizens and citizens. Once again, we regret that you did not want to hear that this mobile application will not contribute to the health of citizens and citizens themselves, but it will increase the possibility for the government to follow citizens and citizens in some way. The social democrats of this proposal will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u16	Thank you. The word is given by the SMC Group, a colleague of Mojca Žnidarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u17	Thank you, President. Respected and respected! The Government has also submitted to the National Assembly, in addition to the Act on Intervention Measures for the preparation of the second wave of COVID-19 with a view to the early implementation of the measures, a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum. Article 90 of the Constitution provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. However, the procedure lays down in more detail the law on referendum and human initiative. In accordance with the law, the National Assembly shall, on a proposal from the Government, adopt a finding that a referendum shall not be permitted for such laws. The Coronavirus, which broke out in China at the end of last year and spread at a rapid rate around the world, claimed that we had already declared an epidemic in Slovenia in March. As a natural disaster, we also consider the mass phenomenon of infectious disease, so today our decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum is fully justified and on the ground. Just as we have done in past anti-Korona marriage packages, we have also adopted conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendum. That the adoption of the decision that we are considering today is necessary is based on two facts. From the first, the measures envisaged by the fourth anti-Korona package must come to life as soon as possible and help our citizens, the economy, the social welfare institutions. And secondly, in recent weeks we have witnessed an increasing number of infections in our countries and neighbouring countries. This lets us know that the second wave of the epidemic is practically here, and this requires a certain action from us. With the adoption of the law yesterday, we continue to do so, today by adopting a decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. At the time of the crown of the crisis, we had some of these conclusions on our parliamentary benches. The conclusions and, as a result, the swift implementation of the measures that have enabled effective and rapid assistance to citizens and the economy have only been supported by the coalition Members. Unfortunately, the opposition has repeatedly taken the view that the submission of such decisions to the decision itself constitutes a restriction on democratic decision-making. In the SMC, we regret that the opposition has so far failed to see that the early implementation of crisis mitigation measures is necessary and that our citizens really need it. Today, all Members have yet another opportunity to prove that we care that we are responsible and that we are able to shrink species when this is really important. We will support the decision in the SMC this time as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u18	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. We have two more reported debates. She'll be the first to discuss Natasha Sukič, then Jerco Korča. My colleague Natasha Sukič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u19	Thank you for your word, chairman. He warns the Information Commissioner, warns the Institute of Criminology, warns the Legal and Legal Service, warns the entire opposition, warns the public – and nothing. You can't hear. You re-abuse the Institute of Referendum, which says you packed up something that should go to the referendum, something that is not at all an interventional nature in the intervention law under the pretext of solving the health crisis. But in the debates we have shown and proved that this application cannot replace tests, this application does not cure people and this application will not solve the health crisis. If that were the case, then these crises in the countries that introduced them would no longer be. On the contrary, in the case of France, we have seen that in a country where I think 76 million people, if I'm not mistaken, maybe a little less, or 67, I don't remember right now, this app worked exactly 14 times in three weeks. And you're here selling us a story that's so urgent that we can't do it without her anymore. You brought something back into the law through the side door, just as you did in previous anti-korona packages with NGOs when you simply interfered with their access to participation in judicial and administrative proceedings. Of course again under the pretense of intervention. However, this had nothing to do with anti-Korona measures, such as this application does not really have. More. The European guidelines are clear. This application can only be voluntary. It's not like that with us. This law states that it will have to be installed by anyone infected with covid-19. Now I am interested, given that we have been here for hours and hours, in order to see that Members of the SDS are very surprised by the debate I have just had about how we have not been able to answer the key questions in all these long marathon hours. We don't know how you're gonna control whether the infected app was installed in a smartphone or not. Will you finally explain to us how you're going to do this? I don't understand how you'll know that. Another time. We know all people don't have smart phones. Will you now force the citizens to have a smart phone and install this app if they are infected? We also did not get answers to this question and the dilemma. We know that the most vulnerable group exposed to this virus are older. And a lot of older people don't have smart phones. So why this app? Are you going to punish these people because, for the first time, they don't have smart phones and they're going to violate your command to install this app? And here I'm surprised by the client Dessus. I hope you're listening to me while the Members are chatting. You're the one who protects the rights of the elderly. You know, these people, they don't have a lot of smart phones. What are you gonna do? Will you look calmly at these people who are already the most vulnerable group, including one of the most exposed to poverty? Will you allow this to happen peacefully? I see you'll allow it peacefully. Because you support it. The fact that you are not interested in constitutionally contentious matters is that you are not interested in proving that this application is proven by many, I will say, the points of the Constitution simply do not mean that this is an unacceptable intervention in freedom of decision, in our privacy, in the human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. I don't know why it ended like this here when I'm discussing it. I'm telling you things that are unfortunately logical. You say that almost all European countries have it. Here's the thing. Just Poland. Poland is the only European country that does not adhere to what the European Commission has laid down. Don't stick to these postulates. And we'll be the others. We will be the only one in Poland who will do this the way it is not done. As it is said, if this app were to work, it would only work if people were widely trusted. If citizens and citizens were to trust this government widely and set it up voluntarily, perhaps even something small would work. But as we know, this government doesn't have confidence, because we see it from the responses, on Fridays, I don't know what's going on right now, but citizens and citizens are clearly telling you that there's still a lot of other things that this government doesn't have confidence and will only have less if it increases its repressive measures. What exactly is this for? What's this app for? That someone's gonna make a good living. To simply intimidate citizens and citizens, to be afraid. Because yes, you tell me how you'll know whether these people have developed the app or not. Secondly, what data will be collected? Thirdly, how long will they be gathering together, until when will they be gathering? You have not answered the key questions concerning fundamental human rights interventions guaranteed by the Constitution. So you're cheering on the constitution. And if he can't be a great statesman, our prime minister decided he'd rather be a big brother. I'm very interested and I'm asking you a question to conclude. Why are you lying? Why are you deceiving and scaring people? With this app, I'm sorry, we won't achieve anything except negative effects in public. Yeah, go ahead, buddy, over there. Indeed, your cynicism and arrogance are unimaginable. And what you're doing is extremely, extremely unacceptable. Therefore, of course, the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum should not be in any way, since this topic of the application is a typical material that should go to the referendum. And since you've done everything you can to keep her from going to the referendum because you're playing referendum law, we're just gonna have to go back to constitutional review. But this seems fun to you, because these trials run in the Constitutional Court, and you have the joy of abusing the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and harassing the people with the unacceptable reinforcement of repression. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The word is from a colleague of Jerco Korca.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u21	Thank you very much for your word and a very nice greeting on my behalf. We have one book that's so beautiful that it's not just a book. This is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And I'm about as old as this country. If there's something they've taught me throughout my youth and my growing up, it's that there are some things that we all have to respect together. These are, after all, symbols of our country and the Constitution is one of the foundations of our Republic. And you can say it a hundred times, and the Prime Minister can say a hundred times how patriotic he is, but until you respect the foundations on which the country is built, you can't even talk about the minimum level of patriotism. Today we are talking about denying the people the opportunity to call for a referendum. That's what we're talking about. The fact that the substantive matter is disputed on several levels and that you are pushing into some intervention laws under some pretense of the intervention of a case that does not belong there shows what kind of person you are. And it reflects that it is a great shame that coalition partners do not rise up and say yes, we are in favour of action in the economic field, in the health field, where intervention and quick response are needed, but things that are not interventional and do not belong to the law are in the field of professional discussion, to be spoken of by those who know what safeguards are needed to discuss with the Ombudsman, the Information Commissioner, to tell how technology can be allowed to help us, but to set up very strict safeguards to protect human rights. That's what we're talking about. And you always go one step further. One more step will be taken today. You know, we don't have an epidemic, we don't have an emergency, we don't have anything like that. According to this logic, every law that comes into the National Assembly will be subject to the pretext of some intervention action to renounce what is provided for in the Constitution. According to the constitution, this coalition, this Prime Minister, does not have power, but has power over the people. And I don't know what you're afraid of. If we were to write laws aimed at helping the economy alone, believe that the voices of the opposition would probably also be heard. But no. You fall for what one party or Prime Minister intends to do. And that's sad. Today, Members should put this matter where it belongs. And that is that it is unacceptable that after so long as we do not have an epidemic or any extraordinary situation, people are denied a referendum. That's what we're talking about. I hope this book is still valid. If we are no longer allowed to read in the market, I hope that we can still read it in our offices. Read it, think about how much longer we will allow some of the limits of what our Republic, our Slovenia, is built on to move to where they do not belong.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u22	Thank you very much. We are moving to the final part of the debate, in which he gets the word of a representative of the Government. You want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that. I would just like to explain, given the debate in the past days and also today, what is going on with someone not having a mobile phone. Yes, we are aware that many older ones, especially residents and residents, do not have homes for elderly mobile phones. But the marriage here is very clear. The application must be installed by someone who is infected or who is quarantined and user-defined, it is said that he has a mobile phone. No one will be punished for not having a smart phone and for that reason will not be able to install this app. The penalty is meant only for those who have a mobile phone and do not want to install it under the terms of this law. The penalty is set at between €100 and €600. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u24	It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u25	Yes, ma'am, because I know that those who don't have but don't you think it's a completely unequal treatment among the infected as well. [[…]] So if you don't have a phone, okay, then I hope that the citizens will commit civil disobedience and everyone will give up on the phones and they won't have that app. Then you can stand on top of your own control, which is quite something. So whoever doesn't have a phone doesn't have to install. So you're giving up your phone. Pika. You close your phone, you don't have it anymore, bye-bye phone and bye app. Is that what you're saying? Thank you for explaining all this to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Comrade Robi Pavšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u27	Thank you very much. First of all, I must strongly protest, not once have you warned SDS Members who have constantly disturbed both the speakers and those who wanted to listen to the debate. It's the same now. And there was a constant chatter behind me, too. Secondly, we have processed the substantive concerns in very detail yesterday and have found that the mobile application has gravely interfered with fundamental constitutional rights. This was clearly highlighted today by the State Council, even though it gave up the veto. And if there are over 46 people here who believe they're right, but at the same time they realize they're wrong, this system has really gone into some dead end. The fact that they are wrong confirms tens of thousands of people who are every Friday before Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u28	Order, peace! Quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u29	That's why I'm going to reject this law as easily as I did yesterday, which isn't interventional. My colleagues have already been highlighted today, we are not in an epidemic, we have no declared emergency, we have no declared natural disaster. In perfectly normal homogeneous times you also hide good measures, but especially those that are not good, in intervention legislation. If that's not clear and it's not turned around, then I don't know what else is. This building is turning into some weird political farce. That's what you're always saying every day. I'll go against it, I'll go against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-07-10-SDZ8-Izredna-41.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 20. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I also conclude the 41st extraordinary meeting of the assembly. The meeting was closed on 10 July 2020 at 19.29.
