ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 51st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly convened under Article 58, paragraph 2, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Member and Members: Lidija Dijak Mirnik, Sam Bevk and Matjaž Han. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Thursday 26 November 2020, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received a proposal to extend the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 51 votes against 13. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the agenda of the 51st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. On the day-to-day basis, this is a preliminary conclusion on the inadmissibility of the legal referendum on the law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian military in the years 2021 to 2026. On the basis of Article 21a of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the Government submitted a proposal for a decision. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the State Secretary at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Uros Lampret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The basic objective of the Act on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026 is to provide funding in the planned scale and following the planned dynamics over the next six years to establish the most important military capacity to fulfil the tasks of the Slovenian Armed Forces and to participate in NATO's collective defence system. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall propose to the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 31a(1) of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative, the adoption of a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army between 2021 and 2026. The first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that a referendum shall not be allowed to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters, as the postponement of the adoption of such laws and, in particular, their rejection at the referendum would constitute a serious obstacle to the functioning of the State or the exercise of its fundamental functions. We believe that the law fulfils all the conditions for a constitutionally permissible ban on the referendum, including the conditions relating to the substantive and time-consuming component of the necessity of legal action. For the non-admissibility of the referendum referred to in the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution, three conditions must be met: the law must be law in its form. The law must contain the necessary measures to ensure certain constitutional values; these constitutional values are the defence of the country, security or remedying the consequences of natural disasters. The first and third conditions are undoubtedly met, since the law is in the field of the defence and security system of the Republic of Slovenia. The law does not contain any other provisions which are not in the field of defence and security by indirectly exercising the right to a referendum. The law also contains necessary measures to ensure the defence and security of the Republic of Slovenia in the national and collective defence and security system. In order for legal measures to be necessary, they must be essential, essential and crucial in their content, so that without them defence and security cannot be sufficiently guaranteed. However, in a time-consuming sense, their postponement or even rejection in the event of a successful referendum must lead to a serious obstacle to the functioning of the State to the performance of its core functions, which could lead to difficult remedial consequences or to a threat to the implementation of other constitutional provisions. If we first touch on the time components of urgency, we can see that there is a serious obstacle to the functioning of the State to the exercise of its fundamental functions in the field of defence and security not only now but for almost a decade now. Since 2013, as confirmed by national and international expert evaluations, the Slovenian Armed Forces has not reached the necessary level of readiness and capacity to operate throughout the entire range of military operations. For many years now, the national security system has not achieved the necessary level of capacity to address future threats and risks to national security and cannot achieve all the objectives and tasks assigned to it and establish the necessary defence capabilities of the country. This means that there has been a situation in the field of defence and security in Slovenia for several years which is incompatible with the fundamental constitutional obligation laid down in Article 123 of the Constitution, which requires the effective defence of the State and thus the effective security of citizens and citizens, as well as the fulfilment of its international legal obligations in this area, as set out in Articles 8 and 3a of the Constitution. These measures, in terms of providing a legal basis for the purchase of military equipment, are established by law establishing the legal basis for the purchase of the necessary military transport, communications, cyber defence, infrastructure, missile and infantry resources. The provision of this legal basis is necessary now because the implementation of defence investments is urgent in the medium and long term, as it involves the acquisition of military equipment and weapons for a specific market that urgently requires medium-term commitment. There is also no doubt about the existence of the substantive necessity of the law. At this point, the law establishes a non-existent legal basis for the mid-term commitment to carry out defence investments, which are essential, essential and essential to the national and collective defence system. The financial and economic crisis in recent years has led to a complete stalemate in the development of the defence system, resulting in continued negative domestic and foreign assessments of the state of the Slovenian army and also in the failure to meet several international commitments already made. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The text is given by the Group of the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia. The position will be presented by Franz Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u4	President, thank you for your word. Nice greetings to my friends and friends! “The soldiers helped to rehabilitate the beekeeping home. The Slovenian Army is helping to find the missing person. The Slovenian Army helps the notary who have lost their electricity. The helicopter army has intervened in the mountains five times. The Slovenian Army also helped the hoplars. The Slovenian Army helped with the relocation of the UKC Ljubljana laboratory.” This is just a few media headlines that we find when we type in the search engine – the Slovenian Army. When we need them, members and members of the Slovenian Army help us. The glands, the reptiles, the rescue in the mountains, the transport of newborns and many other activities are where without our soldiers we would have a hard time. And today we will be able to hear again about the purchase of missiles and about the aggressive actions our boys and girls are involved in. However, I must tell you immediately that every soldier I have had the privilege of meeting or meeting — and this opportunity I have had for more than 10 years — has shown a much greater level of respect, patience, culture, self-control as a member of our national assembly. The funds that will be allocated to them by 2026 are by no means thrown into the air as some would like to show. There are investments so that their work runs normally, that we will all be safer and that we will receive assistance from members and members of the Slovenian Armed Forces at every moment of our lives. We've been taking the Slovenian Army all along. When there were times of crisis, when there was a need to create a balance or a budget, we always said – Where will we take it? In the Slovenian Army we have taken and this taking actually has to end once, although many of you will now say that it is not the right time. There'll never be a good time. Therefore, in the Desus Group, we believe that as a mature and sovereign country, we are obliged to sign any effort to equip and support the army, especially for the deserving. In the Desus Group, we will support the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum because we believe that the Act on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army is urgently needed in the years 2021 to 2026. The primary concern of Members of the Desus Group is certainly investment in the social and today extremely important health field. However, in our country, we must only once approach a more comprehensive investment in the protected defence area or system. It is true that the Republic of Slovenia is not at present a threatened country, but investment in our military represents an investment in our country, in our security and sovereignty, and an adequate willingness to offer all forms of assistance to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Once we are threatened, then no more investment in the Slovenian Army will be needed, so we must make sure that these investments are made. And there's something else I'd like to warn you about. Every year we accept budgets and rebalancies. Whether these funds will be provided in the budget or in the balance sheet depends on the government at the time. He can't be afraid of that either. The law adopted includes an important safeguard to ensure effective control, as we will be informed of its implementation once a year in the National Assembly. We believe the reports will be accurate and carefully prepared. In addition, as an individual, and as a member of the Defence Committee, I am going to make every effort to ensure that this security guard is respected. In the parliamentary group, we are convinced that according to its content, the law cannot already be subject to referendum decisions under the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Why? 90. Article 90 of the Constitution is quite clear on the inadmissibility of the referendum; it is a matter of law, the law contains urgent measures, the measures relate to the area of defence, safety or the elimination of the consequences of natural disasters. Further exclusion of the referendum, i.e. that the invitation to a referendum on this law is inadmissible, is also regulated in more detail by the Law on the Referendum and on the People's Initiative, which was amended in this part shortly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u5	Comrade Jurš, if you can finish slowly.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u6	I'll be done in a minute. In the Desus Group, we believe that the referendum on this law is inadmissible, so we will vote in favour of this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Lenart will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. All guests present, honourable Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia! We have a proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026. Some think we don't need an army. We in the Slovenian Democratic Party are opposed to the fact that we only need a good army; we are not badly equipped and poorly trained. The military is a constitutional category and one of the pillars of the Slovenian state. Once we have established our country, we have embarked on this path of autonomy and sovereignty and our own responsibility for what we have. And that's what we're responsible for defending with politics, the police and the military. If necessary, we must defend our country and its citizens, their property, health and life. The candidates for the Levic and SD referendum want to stop any euro this government wants for the Slovenian Army by means of a legislative referendum. Not only the funds that we are committed to urgently modernising the equipment and infrastructure of the Slovenian Armed Forces through the already adopted law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army, but every euro. Unfortunately, this is not state-of-the-art and is not responsible for our citizens and their security. The Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia requested a legal opinion on the admissibility of the referendum from the Institute for Constitutional Law. The second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. Prof. Dr. Matej Avbelj and Prof. Dr. Igor Kaucič, a renowned lawyer, are of the opinion that there is no right to a referendum on this law at all when constitutional conditions are met. In this regard, the legal opinion on admissibility for a referendum on an already adopted law, namely, the Act on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army from 2021 to 2026, raises the question whether it is a material criterion for a law that can be classified in one of those constitutional categories which is subject to the prohibition of referendum decision-making. Hereinafter, I summarise the findings of this legal opinion, which has five chapters. Taking into account the constitutional provisions governing the prohibition of a legislative referendum, it is reasonable to conclude that the law in question fulfils the conditions laid down for the exclusion of the legislative referendum on it after the first indent of the second paragraph of Article 90 of the Constitution. While the law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army deals substantively with the financial issue, the objective and purpose it pursues is the law on emergency measures to ensure the defence and security of the State. So for a law which is in accordance with the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution exempted from the referendum decision. In their legal opinion on the admissibility of the legislative referendum of Prof. Avbelj and Prof. Kaučič of the Institute for Constitutional Law, I quote: “The law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army thus fulfils all the conditions for a constitutionally permissible prohibition of a referendum, including the conditions relating to the substantive and time-consuming necessity of legal measures which are reasonable; therefore, the National Assembly may constitutionally prohibit the invitation to a referendum in respect of this law under the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. As there is no right to a referendum in respect of this law when these conditions are met, there is no need to analyse whether this prohibition of a referendum would be beyond the possible constitutional weighting of competing values under Article 15 of the Constitution. However, in the light of all the circumstances of the case, it can be concluded, in the event of a long-standing severe negative situation in the Slovenian military, which, contrary to both the Slovenian Constitution and the international legal obligations adopted, that, even in the absence of an explicit legal basis for prohibiting the referendum in the first or second paragraph of Article 90, the Constitutional Court would prohibit such a referendum, even if it were not to continue to maintain the situation. End of quote. Anyone who doesn't feed his army will soon feed the foreign. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will vote in favour of the Decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Tina Heferle will present the position of the Marjan Sarca Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Have a nice hello to everyone again! Perhaps we all need to freshen up the memory of why and for what purpose the Law on the Referendum Initiative and the People's Initiative introduced the possibility of restricting the constitutional right to a referendum initiative. Only when it comes to the necessary measures to ensure the protection of the State, safety or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters, when it comes to laws on the ratification of international treaties, laws on taxes, customs and other compulsory duties, and laws on the elimination of unconstitutionality in the field of human rights and fundamental freedoms. It is only in these cases that the constitutional right to a referendum initiative is allowed in our country. Today, in the coalition, you propose to ban a referendum on the law, which provides the Slovenian Army with an additional €780 million, where more than 70% of these funds will go to buy eight-wheelers. It is therefore not about ensuring security in the country, but about investment. And you, a respected coalition, are banning a referendum on the law governing investment in the Slovenian Army. This is not a law that would depend on the existence of the defence of our country. This country provides more than €630 million annually for the Slovenian Army, we devote 1.2% of GDP to defence each year, and it is therefore extremely unworthy of you to run propaganda for this law, such as – The military stands or falls under this law. As it is said, it is simply a law where investments are regulated to a large extent for the purchase of eight-wheelers. And if anywhere, then the citizens should have the right to say whether these millions should be wasted on purchasing armoured personnel, or whether they should be used to help the population and the economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mag. Meira Hot will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Following a decision on the proposal to implement the Consultative Referendum on the Proposal for a Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in 2021-2026, supported by the Social Democrats, we have before us a decision on the government decision on the inadmissibility of the call for a legislative referendum again on the law in question, to which the Social Democrats are absolutely opposed and we will vote against the government decision. We believe that people in the referendum have the right to decide whether we will spend €780 million of budget in the coming years by special law for the Slovenian Army. The debate on the law in question has been taking place since the end of June, when it was put into the legislative process, in the direction of what a covid of an epidemic of citizens and citizens really need at this point. For the last nine months, people have been living in a precarious situation, and with the operation of the government, unfortunately, there is not much hope for the future at this time. So why would these millions of dollars be spent? According to the Minister, the funds are allocated, inter alia, to: the acquisition of personal equipment and the arms of soldiers, the construction of military stations, a transport aircraft, two military helicopters, missile systems, medium-sized armoured transport vehicles, logistics medical equipment, the acquisition of communication and information systems. As we have already said, we are aware of the difficulties facing the Slovenian Army. Last but not least, we ran this sector, but in a time of economic and economic crisis, when the Slovenian Armed Forces suffered from the fate of the sudden tightening of budgetary resources; and during the post-crisis period, when we sought to gradually increase the budgetary resources for the Slovenian Army. Unfortunately, the outbreak of coronavirus in the spring left extremely harmful consequences in the economy and, worse still, in health care. No one expected such a rapid deterioration of the epidemiological picture before autumn, which is also tilting during the winter period, a period that has usually cheered us up and gave us hope for a successful entry into the new year. Our country's priorities have become highly intertwined with coronaryism, including in the way that the focus has completely shifted to the solution of the health crisis, and beyond it the coming social crisis, in which we rightly fear that we have not yet reached its summit despite the six anti-korona laws adopted. Your Honor! As the epidemiological picture in Slovenia and the world worsens from day to day, the Social Democrats are very reserved for the purpose and hurry with the apparent 780 million increase in the budget for the six-year investment cycle in the Slovenian Army. We believe that it is absolutely unacceptable for the government to prevent people in the legislative referendum from deciding whether they support or reject the proposed Slovenian Army Investment Act in the next six years. The fact is that in only six days we have managed to collect more than 28 thousand signatures for the invitation to the referendum in question, because it clearly shows that it is a broader social issue that will have long-term implications for all our social subsystems. And in addressing this issue, our citizens and citizens have made it very clear that they want to give their views and that they demand that the decision to enforce the law be made by referendum. In Slovenia, according to the Constitution, the people have power and it is time for the government to be aware of that too. It is undeniable that the proposed content of the law governing the field of investment for the next six years does not fall within that part of the 90th Article of the Constitution, which states when a referendum is not allowed to be declared. This is not a law on emergency measures to ensure the defence of the State, security or remedy the consequences of natural disasters, and therefore the decision on the non-admissibility of the referendum is arbitrary and in itself inadmissible. We will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Monika Gregorčič will present the position of the Group of the Party of the Modern Centre.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u14	Thank you very much and very much! We agree with the proposed decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the law on the provision of investments in the Slovenian Army. We are convinced that the rejection of this law in the referendum would be contrary to the national defence interests of the Republic of Slovenia, contrary to the internationally accepted obligations and commitments of our country, contrary to the fundamental strategic documents of the Republic of Slovenia in the field of defence and security, and would have a negative impact on the construction of the necessary capacities of the Slovenian Armed Forces and would undermine the credibility and reputation of our country as members of the North Atlantic Alliance, which is attempting to fulfil the jointly agreed objectives within the framework of NATO and the European Union in the areas of collective defence and common defence and security policy. An additional key argument is the constitutional provision on the inadmissibility of a referendum on laws relating to emergency measures to ensure the defence and security of the State. Respect for the Constitution, however, is the fundamental basis of the rule of law, to which today's opponents of this decision are so fond, but obviously only when it suits you. We note that the same position, so that such a referendum is inadmissible, is also based on the expert legal opinion of the authors of Professors Dr. Kaučič and Dr. Avbla. It is of particular importance to this opinion that the two authors were also part of the 2013 section that prepared the amendment of Article 90 of the Constitution and are therefore well aware of the purpose and genetics of the changes made. If the Law on Investments in the Slovenian Army, the adoption and enforcement of which are necessary and non-removable, were rejected in the referendum, this would constitute a serious obstacle to the adoption of further urgent measures to strengthen our defence and security. It would mean a serious obstacle to the functioning of our country or to the exercise of its fundamental functions. The rejection of the law would jeopardise the necessary developmental leap and modernisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces and prevent the creation of the capacity identified in the long-term development programmes. We are aware that the purchase of new funds and equipment is a primary investment in the development and enhancement of the capacity of the Slovenian Armed Forces to carry out its statutory tasks, but secondary equipment will also be able to serve the peaceful operation, which will enable double use. This is because military capabilities can also be used in natural and other disasters, in mountain rescue, in the transport of accidents, and also in newborns. We stress that the dilemmas — money for the military or for health care — are very misleading and manipulative, and we regret that they are so shamelessly served by the initiators of the referendum in their aggressive propaganda communication with citizens. It is the responsibility of the government to take care of the functioning of all subsystems, for example health care and education, and that all the resources will be provided by all the resources. This objective is pursued by all recently approved budgets. In the Modern Centre Party, we are aware that security is one of the fundamental conditions for the operation and development of our country and society. The Republic of Slovenia is a country with a high level of security and we want to keep it that way. Since 2013, however, the Slovenian Army has been assessed with insufficient assessment for action in the crisis or war. That the funds so far did not provide the necessary development and upgrading of the military, however, unfortunately also confirm the allied or NATO's capacity reviews, which assess the Slovenian Army as impossible to operate in a more difficult range of operations. This is just an additional argument for our support as soon as possible for the implementation of the Investment Act in the Slovenian Army. As it is said, the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of this legislative referendum will be supported by the Modern Centre Party Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Matthew T. Vatovec will present the position of the Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Good-bye, everybody! 28 000 551 citizens and citizens of Slovenia took the initiative yesterday to call for a legislative referendum on the law, which costs €780 million for weapons during the greatest health, social and economic crisis. 28 000 551 of our fellow citizens have decided to implement Article 3 of the Constitution, which states that in Slovenia has the authority of the people, that they will reject this meaningless arms law at the referendum, so that we can use money instead of the armory for the things we really need: for public health, for homes for the elderly, for the resolution of social and economic pressures. 28 thousand 551 people responded to the August appeal of Minister Tonin to collect signatures for the legislative referendum instead of the consultation referendum. At that time, he said that if the referendum was successful, the law would fall. The 780-million-dollar arms law is opposed. The government of Janez Janša knows this well and has therefore decided, in fear of the people, to undermine fundamental democratic regimes and to propose an illegal and unconstitutional decision prohibiting the referendum. The conditions for this illegal manoeuvre, for the abuse of legislation, for the abuse of the Institute for the Prohibition of Referendum have been ensured by the government with swift amendments to the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative in March this year. The law was adopted with an argument that it would rarely be applied only in cases of serious urgency where the security of the country is at risk when immediate action is needed and where every day of postponement would be too much. If I quote Minister Koritnik: “We are now talking about situations of war, natural disasters and so on, when eight days is too much and we do not have time to wait.” ZRLI changed because of the pandemic. The 780-million-million-dollar arms law, which has been passed for more than five months, which has been dealt with on a regular and non-emergency basis and for which the Government has not proposed a referendum until four months after the commencement of the hearing, since it has been apprehensive of the will of the people, is certainly not the law referred to in the first indent of Article 90(2) of the Constitution. It is clear from the procedure itself that there is a violation of both the law and the Constitution, since the decision to prohibit the referendum should be adopted at the same time as the law which should be dealt with under the urgency procedure. This is also supported by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, in part, by constitutional practice. If I quote the government once again, which says that such decisions would be justified by reasons in practice already an integral part of the draft law under urgent procedure. In the case of the 780 million arms law, the procedure is not necessary, but a regular one, the decision was not adopted at the same time as the law, but later; therefore, we claim that it is a violation of the ZRLI. There is also no reason to prohibit the 780-million-million-dollar referendum, as there is no need for the adoption of a law, the only substance of which is the purchase of arms, military equipment; a law that will not take effect immediately but will be concluded or concluded between 2021 and 2026. The law, which, during the actual necessary investment to deal with the health, social and economic crisis, throws 780 million for weapons or throws 780 million through the window. Today's vote is not just about one referendum, but it is about whether Slovenia is still a democratic state. We will defend democracy and the right to a referendum until the end. You won't keep us quiet.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The word is given by Andrej Černigoj, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group – Christian Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u18	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, Honourable National Assembly! New Slovenia – Christian Democrats in the Slovenian Army, the country and the temple of democracy have introduced a new view, the ability to cooperate, co-exist. We are changing the paradigm of the country's operation and we are an example of how cooperation can succeed and grow together. We live in difficult times. The whole world has become a intertwined and common global village. The invisible enemy covid-19 doesn't untangle things, but it has exacerbated them on all subsystems, so we all agree that our environment is becoming increasingly uncertain and unpredictable. The security situation in our wider area is deteriorating dangerously. Terrorist attacks, hybrid threats, cyber attacks, instability in Belarus, Ukraine, Turkey, Gorski Karabakh and, finally, in North Africa must not leave us indifferent. Not only Slovenia, the entire European Union must take care of its security. The vast majority of countries on the European continent are rapidly investing in the defence of their own country. Slovenia has so far been a unique country, allowing the policy to have clearly brought the defence system of its own country to its knees in the last ten years. Nationals and citizens of Switzerland, Norway, Sweden, Baltic States, Czech Republic, Austria, Croatia, Netherlands, Belgium, Poland do not have this dilemma. They know that they must take care of their own safety first. The virtual security we experience in the shelter of our homes in our cities and in our country can quickly collapse into dust, in front of our eyes. That is why we must take greater care of our security in these times and firmly oppose all forms of extremism. This is no longer a matter of choice today, but of necessity, if we want to preserve the way of life as we know it and love it. Finally, we must openly acknowledge that the policy of multiculturalism does not work and we must strengthen our common European values. In Novi Slovenije – Christian Democrats we restored confidence in the Slovenian Army by resolving the social status of members of the Slovenian Army in the Defence Act. However, we are aware that the number of members and members of the Slovenian Army is not enough for the security of the country. In addition, the knowledge of Slovenian soldiers and soldiers and the appropriate equipment for which the investment is necessary is needed. Without these components about the serious Slovenian Army, which is prepared for any challenging emergency task in defence or in helping the country, we cannot speak. Christian Democrats respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. This second paragraph of Article 90 provides that a referendum shall not be permitted to be published on the laws on emergency measures in order to ensure the protection of the State, safety or remedy the consequences of natural disasters. In Novi Slovenije we believe that the law on the provision of investment funds in the Slovenian Army meets all the conditions for the decision of the National Assembly that a referendum on this law is not allowed to be declared. This is based on its content, as well as the time component, which, after a decade of neglect of the Slovenian Armed Forces, requires the necessary investments to continue its existence. Therefore, in New Slovenia we will unanimously support the decision on the inadmissibility of the invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Maša Kociper will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of Alenka Bratušek.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u20	Dear Members and Members, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Today we are not talking here about the Law on the provision of funds for investments in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021 to 2026, as it could be concluded from the views of some of my fellow Members' groups. Also, words about how much we need military funding, how highly underinvested, how much our country can be threatened and so on, mean only mixing fog and misleading. This session, which we are talking about today, is about only one thing. We are discussing whether a referendum on this law is permissible. And this is the point of this meeting, which was called so quickly that you probably did not have the opportunity to prepare yourself for such a very important meeting. This is because, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it is written in such a way that it has the authority of the people. It exercises this power directly and through elections. Humanity directly exercises power or directly participates in the exercise of authority in the form of direct democracy, including the referendum. It is therefore a form of direct voter decision on the constitution, law or other legal act or other important issue. It means the right of all citizens who have the right to vote or vote to decide by general vote on an individual act or the law of the representative body. From the point of view of the functioning of the State authority, the way in which people participate in the adoption of the most important legal and political acts, which are otherwise within the competence of the legislative body. It is said that it is such an important competence and such an important institution that the Constitution itself – and I myself have been involved in amending this Article of the Constitution – has specified precisely, only in which rare cases this right can be denied to people and deprived of it. And they may be taken away from them in the cases provided for in Article 90 of the Constitution, which has already been mentioned many times today, in particular the first indent of Article 90(2), which states that the referendum can be excluded, is not, indeed, to be done only under certain conditions. And these conditions have already been summarized today. Let me recap. The law must, in its form, be the law, which is the law. Secondly, the law, which will not be the subject of a referendum, must contain necessary measures. And thirdly, these constitutional values, which we are talking about, are the defence of the country, the security and the resolution of the consequences of natural disasters. Well, you see, the second condition of urgency is not given. It is not given regardless of the time component and regardless of the content component. Very good – and I fully agree with the Legislative and Legal Service this time – I also greatly appreciate this professional colleague, who wrote this position – the Law and Law Service already summed it up. And I will extend this opinion and simplify it so that people can understand. Given the importance of the referendum, it is necessary to determine exactly which law it is that can be excluded. The time component means that it must already be based on the way in which the law is adopted, that the law is very necessary in order to hurry. What is an emergency procedure, we know what conditions are given, we know. Neither were the conditions for the emergency procedure given here, as we can see. However, we are now saying that this is an emergency. But it is more important for me and probably for all of you. Is it really so urgent to enforce this law now, immediately, without a referendum, because otherwise there will be harmful consequences. Look, it's not. This time component is not given either. Funds for the Slovenian Army are provided and provided in two budgets. In the next two years' budgets, € 160 million. And we certainly don't need a special law right now, right now, without a referendum. We don't need to. And even if we look in the long term, if this referendum were to take place and this law would be rejected, the harmful consequences would not have arisen for at least two more years. In two years, however, the government may also be replaced, which would prevent the same law that you now want to prevent people from making decisions about it, change it, and find that there is no need for that kind of money for the military. That is why I must say that you have hoped to visit one of the most important institutes – the referendum and jeopardize the exercise of this right. You interpreted the constitutional decision too widely. You, who have always been so much for the referendums, have locked down here the opportunity for people to exercise their fundamental right. In view of everything, and also in the light of the clear views of the Constitutional Court, we will vote against the SAB party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decision. Rudy Bear has the word. Get ready for Micah Kordish and Joseph Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, President. Slovenia is a democratic republic, so Article 1 of our Constitution states. Slovenia is a legal and social state, so Article 2 of the Constitution states. And in Slovenia, the authority of the people is the second paragraph of Article 3 of the Constitution. The referendum and the people's initiatives are a form of direct democracy, but we wonder if this is still true in Slovenia. Is it true that this government is still in a position to establish the fundamental principles of democratic regulation? Probably in fear of their own people. The intention to prevent a legislative referendum on several hundred million valuable investments in the Slovenian Army is, in our firm belief, an apparent abuse of power. And how should we talk about respect for the principle that in Slovenia people have power if people want to take up the possibility of democratic co-decision?Oh, my God! What does this multi-annual investment plan have to do with equipment? Above all, we are convinced that it is also unrealistic, you will see when practice shows it. At the threshold of a crisis that we don't know how long it's going to take, a 780 million-dollar investment push. Is there a direct war threat to us right now? Even if we had, this law would certainly not have prevented her. Does this law possibly contribute to stopping the epidemic? Of course not. The only reason this law fulfils the condition that the referendum is impossible about it is that if you immediately use this instant 780 million to invest in security. In this case, I might be fulfilling. In fact, this law has harmful consequences, harmful consequences that will affect the head of the future government, not just one, probably more governments. To commit the government to something that cannot be realized because of the public financial situation, as well as because of the wrong course taken by this law, is a harmful consequence. Therefore, the proposed decision of this legislative referendum only affirms how we were right in the Marjan Šarc Letter, when we insisted that such a decision, as is now at the table, could only be adopted by a two-thirds majority. Yes, we were very right, and this is now shown in practice, several times, of course. Why? It is to avoid such abuses, such interpretations of the Constitution and referendum legislation. And, last but not least, to violate democratic norms and fundamental rights to express human will in the referendum. The legal opinion of two lawyers, you know, can be obtained from two or three other different legal opinions. It's all a matter of interpretation. We certainly see the need for a referendum because we have always opposed or opposed the course in which he went. I also say why a referendum is needed and why the content of this law should be rejected in the referendum. Because we are convinced that investing in the next six years — most of it — in new armor is pointless and shortsighted. I didn't tell the tank, I told the armory, because Minister Tonin is so fond of correcting everything that's said about the content of this law. I'm talking about armor. It is necessary to invest in the face of modern military challenges, which are also brought about by robotics and digitisation at battlefields and military sites. It was mentioned earlier in Gorski Karabah. That is exactly what was happening in the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan. What eight-wheelers. Robotics, digitalization. This was happening, not 8x8 armor. And we claim that it is necessary to invest in people. We do not have enough in the Slovenian Army to meet these modern challenges. Otherwise, the government has been completely deaf all the time to any well-intentioned proposals in support of the modernisation of equipment, the human resources reinforcement of the military. We are in the List of Marjan Šarca all the time and we still advocate investing in equipment and infrastructure. Finally, it was the government of Marjana Sarca that turned the trend of the defence budget in a positive direction and increased defence resources, but no new law had to be adopted. The Slovenian army, we need our army. We need an army that will be trained to face modern challenges and to help people. And funding should be provided in the regular budget. We have indicated this in the government of Marjana Šarc and only the dynamics of how we would do it. And we need to take into account the reality, if we call it, of the postcocious world. We do not need a bad investment law that spends most of its money on armoured personnel; we need stable funding from the Slovenian Armed Forces in regular budgets. Therefore, as you have seen, this law will not be fulfilled in practice. This will be seen very soon. However, as soon as we draw attention to this, there will always be the opportunity that this government and, of course, the Defence Minister will take advantage of to accuse who is in favour or who is against the Slovenian Army. In this marriage, it was the most obvious whom Minister Tonin wanted to bring to the field of ideology in any way. What, for God's sake, does the armored ideology have? Nothing, actually, I shouldn't have. That is why, of course, we advocate the right to a referendum in this case, because we believe that the decision proposing a ban on the referendum is absolutely unacceptable and unworthy. We say that the vote for the referendum is also a vote to respect fundamental constitutional principles. In fact, it is a vote for democracy in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is from a government representative, Mr. Urosh Lampret.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Allow me just a few very brief explanations for the debate we have heard so far. Why a special marriage? We've talked about this a lot. Indeed, already in the past, some €70m to €80m was planned for the defence budget in 2021 as early as 2019. That's right. But it is also true that when we talk about buying this military equipment that we have in marriage, this equipment cannot be purchased within one year. Since 2015, all governments have been playing with one idea or another to ensure that financial commitments can be made in the longer term. Another matter concerning the funds contained in this law. He was mentioned in Gorski Karabah and the lessons that all the armies of this world, including the Allies, draw from this regional limited conflict. Both sides of the conflict used basic platforms on this battlefield – armoured and thin. Both sides. It doesn't say anywhere that the side that didn't have these things, that she had something else, won. The point is that Slovenia is also buying a basic platform for action on the modern battlefield with this law, and the Slovenian Army platform has been waiting for 15 years. Without this basic platform, operating at any battlefield, plus, of course, the full range of other capabilities, which are also discussed by law, drones, telecommunications systems, electronic warfare and all others. Two numbers issues. Today we have heard once again that they are armoured, so this armoured part of this law, 70% of the total. That's not true. 408 million is foreseen for armoured personnel, which is 52.5% of the total. And we're talking about two types of armor. 4x4 shells are purchased on the basis of a contract concluded in 2019. We're just continuing with this contract, so-called oshkosh. That's it. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u26	780 million euros for weapons is probably the largest single lobbying business we have ever seen in this country. And it is not surprising that people have responded appropriately. The referendum was supported by 30,000 citizens and citizens practically overnight. In a few days they took to the streets, stood in front of the stands, waiting there in the cold in the middle of an epidemic disciplined by each other's distance, so that they could pass their signature against this crime. But the governments of Janez Janša are obviously commissions that come with all arms deals more important than democracy and want to give citizens and citizens a referendum on whether to devote 780 million euros to arms or to points where we are actually at risk as a civil society. This is health care, here are youth shelters, nursing homes. They refer to the Constitution if the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia does not allow direct democracy on matters relating to security, the defence of the State and natural disasters, and if these issues are of urgent importance. Let's take a closer look at all these three categories. Security first. We're buying conventional warfare weapons. Is Slovenia under military threat? Following the testimony of the Ministry of Defence, Slovenia is not militarily threatened. So how is this EUR 780 million for weapons in a specific law of urgency to ensure the security of the state?Oh, my God! The question is rhetorical. It's not. However, Slovenia is socially threatened, is economically threatened, and has finally been in the biggest health crisis in the last hundred years. If anything, then we could argue the opposite: because it will go 780 million for weapons, the money will not be for health and care. The level of threat to citizens and citizens will not decrease, but will increase. The same could also be said about the point of defence of the country and, of course, the line of natural disaster. This 780 million does not provide for serious capacity-building to protect and rescue, but buys armor, buys rockets. Although he also buys helicopters, yes, but for Nate's special forces, which are not too suitable and will not, for example, strengthen the mountain rescue fleet. The urgency of this law is also evident in the fact that we have been talking about it for five months. How, though, is this law necessary if it was adopted by the government 5 months ago? If I were so urgent, I'd be accepted in a day or two, maybe three. The weapons purchased from this address are intended to operate in the context of NATO on missions abroad. So another point on which the Ministry of Defence is discussing out loud and which challenges the claims itself that the referendum should be prevented for the sake of the defence of the State. That's not true again. It's a weapon bought for foreign occupation. And it is purchased under the planning documents of the NATO Capacity Goals, which the Republic of Slovenia is expected to meet by 2035, ladies and gentlemen, within 15 years. The law itself will enter into force in more than a month, in 2021, and will not be completed until 2026. So it's a five-year period that tells us how much we don't really talk about any kind of emergency defense of the country. To put it in context and in comparison with what the defence of the state is – if we were to face war directly, Slovenia would be militarily threatened. The representatives of the Ministry of Defence themselves speak of medium-term commitment and the law is also adopted on a regular basis, not on an urgent or shorter basis. And look at what the chief attorneys of this armament of coalition parties list. Terrorist attacks, hybrid threats, cyber attacks. How many of these are going to stop the armor? Let's go to the referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Joseph Horvath has the word. Get ready, Matjaž German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true, as the colleague rightly pointed out earlier, that today we are actually considering the proposal for a decision on the inadmissibility of an invitation to tender for a legislative referendum on the Law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army in the years 2021-2026. This Decision is based on the amendment of the Constitution. I'm surprised it hasn't been many years. Those of us who were together at that time, the opposition, created a constitutional law amending Article 90 of the Constitution, which speaks of the fact that, for certain areas, legislative referendums were not permissible for certain laws; and then we made it very clear in those debates, coordinations that it was not easy for us, the opposition. We gave in, but we acted rationally. On 31 May 2013, the Constitutional Law was published in the Official Journal. Who was in power then? It is known, as it is said, that we in the opposition have supported, we have supported these constitutional changes. Sometimes we say that the law must also be interpreted and understood in the spirit of marriage, as well as in the Constitution. Today, any interpretation of such or other lawyers regarding this decision and so on, but again, as at the previous point – we respect the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and believe in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. In this context, the opinion of the Constitutional Law Institute is of personal relevance to me. Who should we ask if it's not the Constitutional Law Institute? Maybe some law school. But if we respect any institutions, in this context the Institute for Constitutional Law is certainly relevant to the National Assembly, because we are not all lawyers, it gives an opinion on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum on the law on the provision of funds for investment in the Slovenian Army. I will not go down, as we say, to the conclusion of how many truths these calls have been gathered, that is the second question, not the question of today's meeting. However, I have found something myself, this is of course a subjective opinion that those who have collected signatures, but also the media, report that those who have collected signatures have practically not produced concrete alternative investment programmes elsewhere. I am also asking the rhetorical question of what Mr Karel Erjavec would say about this decision today. I know him so much, and I know he would support this decision because he has worked hard to increase the country's defence budget. Unfortunately, we were in the opposition, I don't know, he obviously didn't have enough political support. And dear colleagues, this coalition does nothing but realize your commitments. Your vows. I'm not gonna count them because I don't have enough time, and I'm sure they wouldn't listen. What would Mrs Andreja Katič and her Secretary of State Mr Miloš Bizjak say about this decision?Oh, my God! It's a rhetorical question. If I know both of you well, we talked a lot, again as opposition Members. Both would support the decision on inadmissibility because they both sought to equip the Slovenian Army because, in fact, the hand on the heart has been nourished since 2013. I understand those years of crisis, I understand that the army was taking action, but the army was always fighting. The army was always on the run, and the army never took it, because the Slovenian Army is not an occupying army. The occupying army is taking it. The Slovenian army always helps. Always. It always helps our people in the country as well as outside, Bosnia and Herzegovina and so on. And we do not allow, among other things, to build suitable living quarters for them, barracks in their own homes. No, we're not giving up on that either. No, ma'am. I don't know what to say to me by a very valuable former colleague of Prof. Dr. Ljubica Jelusic. She was my Vice-President of the European Union Affairs Committee. So she asked me when we took over the Defense Department in 2012 that we should not, however, allow the military to continue fighting. She knows, she knows, she knows exactly what she's talking about. How would she react today? I would vote in favour of the decision on the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum to that law. If it's any different, I'm sure she'll write me a letter, and I'll read it to you. And so on and so forth. And, unfortunately, you're deceiving people as if 780 million were being invested in weapons now and immediately; nothing to put on health, nothing to put on social welfare and so on. Once again and for a hundred years, the Slovenian Army is a serious army, it has and has always had medium-term procurement programmes, which have always been confirmed by every government. And if I look at these existing medium-term programmes now and look at 780 million, that's the amount to invest in six years, six years, then I see that by this law we've basically provided only – just, everything is big – 300 million euros more. If we divide 300 into six years, we get 50 million a year, which is also reflected in the budget documents. Please don't fool us into not giving up for health. But we don't give up for health. Health will be budgeted from 2021 to 528 million. This is 345 million more than was the realisation of 2019. Or 188% more money for health care is provided in the following year, as was realized in 2019. Social State or Ministry of Labour, Family, Social Affairs – almost 2 billion, almost 2 billion, 15% more than last year's realisation. And this is necessary because the crisis has hurt many badly. Of course, we have not forgotten jobs or economic development. Almost a factor of 2 more money in the budget in 2021, such as the realization of 2019. More precisely, 204 million was realized 2019; a good 402 million is the budget for 2021 of the Ministry of Economic Development and Technology. And so on and so forth. There's a lot of reasons, not enough time to give it all away. A lot, but I've said enough in my opinion. And, of course, I will support this decision on the inadmissibility of the law, which provides funds for our Slovenian army. I don't know who's afraid for the will of the Slovenian Army, who's afraid of the Slovenian Army. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The word is Matjaž German. Get ready, mag. Meira Hot.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. To a large extent, I would most likely agree with my predecessor if it were not for 2020. The Republic of Slovenia faces the greatest challenges since its existence; not only our country, but the whole of Europe and the whole world. Unlike all the words of my predecessor spoken on behalf of third parties, in his case, he would never dare to assume what someone would have hoped to attach or not, or to confirm in the National Assembly, that we have been in line for several weeks at the very top of the epidemic crisis in Europe. What's more, we're on top of a hundred thousand people a day. The priorities are substantially different from those of last year. The priorities are significantly different than they have ever been since the establishment of our independent country. I am myself for the modern, well-equipped and highly motivated Slovenian Army. I see the Slovenian Army as one of the foundations of statehood. I agree with those who say that this is one of the basic functions of the state. In given circumstances, when we have the worst epidemiological picture, I wonder if this is actually our priority today. We also have some other fundamental functions, such as the right to public health, public health access or the right to work, the right to express, codecision. What is your priority at this time, Your Honor? Is it really an army? Although I agree with you that this is one of the basic functions of the country, but in the circumstances given to me, it is a fundamental function of the State to ensure that elderly people in nursing homes do not die daily, that those who are ill for other associated diseases are given access to public health to ensure that enough beds are provided for those who are ill for covida-19, that people can work fairly and be paid to survive despite the circumstances for this work. And unlike Janez Janša, I do not think that people are lying on the couch waiting for his blessing to go to work, to school, or to be treated. It's a matter of priority, colleagues, colleagues. Priorities under the given circumstances. I am not talking about the limitation and inadmissibility of referendum rights. A lot of freedoms have been taken into the covida-19 account. But what will be the work of your work after we've recovered as a society, not just from a covida, but it's a question. The right to a referendum is a fundamental constitutional right and is the foundation of every democratic state, respected. And it's obvious that people with more than 28,000 signatures want to say about such an important question, whether you like it or not. For people, obviously, the basic function of the state at this point is some other function, certainly not the purchase of weapons. However, it is certainly about ensuring access to health care. That's the first one. And, of course, to regenerate the economy, help the economy. I'm talking about independent entrepreneurs, I'm talking about culturers, cultural workers and cultural creators. That I don't even talk about helping old people's homes. It has been proven that we have covered this area. And all you'd be doing today would be the army. As has already been said, the inadmissibility of the legislative referendum is used only and only in exceptional cases. What, though, is the military threat that this is an exceptional case in the defence field? In the vicinity, hand to heart, we have two known conflicts. One is Gorski Karabah and the other is eastern Ukraine. In 2015, under certain circumstances, we were able to respond to the biggest refugee wave ever to travel through the Republic of Slovenia in the history of independent Slovenia. That's when we responded correctly. This has been the only real threat in the last five years, thank God, in addition to security or natural disasters, and this is only from a logistical point of view. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let it be clear to all, no one has anything against the Slovenian Army. On the contrary, as has already been said, we want a modern, well-reinforced and motivated army; but at this point, we want people not to die because of covida and all the other diseases that actually plague our country because of their lack of access. And that's a priority right now. There's still time for the army. We need it, but right now we have other priorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Meira Hot. Get ready, Masha Kociper.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u32	Thank you very much. We have heard several times in the last five months the question of who is afraid of the Slovenian Army. And we say again and again that we absolutely appreciate, respect the Slovenian Army, that we know that it has been nourished for many years, that we know that it has to be invested, that strategic documents have been adopted, which also envisioned investment in the military; but they have always been based on certain assumptions of economic growth. There's been an epidemic, there's been a virus, there's been extraordinary circumstances. And in such circumstances, talking about the six-year cycle of €780 million in investment for weapons, military construction, transport aircraft, helicopters and so on is absolutely unsustainable, and I personally find it a bit distasteful. Every time, however, I wonder about debates like today, who is afraid of the Slovenian people. Who is afraid of Slovenian citizens and citizens? Who can propose that the people's clearly expressed will, their democratic constitutional right to declare themselves at the referendum, that 90 people are allowed not to do so and that this fundamental right is taken away from them. Why are you afraid to hear what the nation thinks about this marriage? How do you hope to deny the people their fundamental right? We have clearly heard that this is a constitutional right, we have clearly heard that this is the foundation of democracy and that the right to a referendum is only allowed to be restricted in cases of urgency if there are harmful consequences to the country. And it is very clear that this is not the case, because otherwise we would not have adopted the law on a regular basis; how to justify the urgency in this way at all. Moreover, the basis for financing the provisions of the law is essentially the state budget, and resources will also have to be provided in the budgets for 2021 to 2026. Obviously, in this case it is a law that does not justify and does not prove that the admissibility of the referendum would be reasonable. The only harmful consequences at this point are the collapse of the health system, the energy poverty, the problems that our citizens and citizens face daily, and the destruction of the constitutional foundations when some in this national assembly are allowed to discuss whether our citizens and citizens can exercise their fundamental constitutional rights. You have initiated conclusions on the inadmissibility of the referendums, which should be an exception to the CAP. And now it's becoming a rule, and that's how the demolition begins. I am absolutely voting against this decision, and I really hope that everyone else will be able to look at themselves and say that people need to be given the opportunity to make decisions. Do not be afraid of the Slovenian people, give them the opportunity to exercise their fundamental constitutional right, which is that in Slovenia they have the authority of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Masha Kociper. Get ready, Robert Pollnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u34	Thank you, President. In this debate too, some continue to debate whether this money and these investments Slovenians need, whether certain Members like the Slovenian Army or not, whether we are afraid or not, whether we love our country or not, and so on. Once again, all we are talking about today is whether these conditions are given precisely in the Constitution and the law, which allows you, dear coalition, to prevent people from having a referendum on this law. And given the importance of the referendum, it is very clear and precise as to what constitutional or legal conditions are; and we already have two decisions of the Constitutional Court that have backed it up. The SDS, in particular as well as the NSI, has, of course, always been at the point of view of how important this direct democracy and decision-making is. Since its independence, the SDS has put forward 19 initiatives for the referendum and 11 referendums have also been announced. And now I'm going to return to you in a populism way, "Why are you afraid of people?" Why are you afraid of them saying anything about this? But in fact, what we are talking about today is not about whether you are in favour of the Slovenian Army or not; whether you are in favour of such an investment or not; whether this investment is necessary now or not. But it is a question of whether the referendum is admissible; and it is indeed a legal issue. And I understand all those among you who are not lawyers, and you cannot deepen into all these opinions, as I have for the last two hours and have deepened before. And as one of the Members rightly said, I am not a lawyer, but I have before me the opinion of Dr. Avblja and Dr. Kouchič, and they said it was okay. Fair enough, I understand. But as we have already said a hundred times, five lawyers — five opinions — is not an exact knowledge. And more than by the authority of the person who gives a legal opinion, any legal opinion should be persuaded by arguments. With arguments, not with authority. And I wanted to explain to you in a very simple way why I don't think this legal opinion is worth it. If I quickly conclude once again that you can prevent a referendum, conditions must be given, and this is one of them that is not given here – the urgency of the action. The urgency is not given here either as a time component, because the law was not adopted by emergency procedure, there are no shorter deadlines for its adoption, it is not necessary that the money immediately begins to flow, because we have adopted two budgets for two years that provide funding for the military. The urgency is not given in the time context; it is not. And it's not in the material either, because there will be no reasons why our country's security would be compromised. Not only is the money in the budget, if necessary, God forbid, if there is a second year of war, that any government can accept a rebalancing at any time and immediately increase funds for the military. This has nothing to do with this law. Besides, it's an investment, and I hope we can separate it. It is neither a time nor a substantive necessity for you to be in such a hurry. And when we talk about the authority of the argument, the argument that was used by one of the two experts in this case must be stated. These same Members pressed the button yesterday that the New University of Jambrek, where the Rector of this University, Dr. Avbelj, received a further 2 million per year, regardless of not meeting the conditions for accreditation. The new university where Dr. Jambrek is the boss is his wife, the chief secretary is his daughter, and they work there themselves right-wing – our MP – the right-wing lawyers would say. Maybe that's the way it is, but now I have to speculate a little bit about this payment by Dr. Avbla. These connections are so visible that when a person wants to be corrected, it is difficult. What I give to the opinion of such a gentleman, who is so directly paid and rewarded, I will not say here. I suggest you use your Members' minds. Do you think it is really worth taking away the right to a referendum because it is so urgent because this law is so necessary? Because the end of the world will be tomorrow if this law goes into a referendum and falls and the state will have to adopt another law with less than a million or a longer period. So much for now, and thank you so much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is Vojko Starović, who is not. Next to the last, Luke Moon has the word. He's not here either. We are going to the conclusion of the debate, in which he will also be given the floor by the representative of the Government. Mr. Lampret, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u36	Thank you, President. Allow me to briefly address a number of things that have been raised in the debate. We've heard about urgency several times. Our view is that the fact that the law was not adopted by emergency procedure does not mean that a referendum on such a law, if necessary by its content, would not be allowed to be prohibited. Despite its necessity to adopt a regular legislative procedure, the law is precisely for the sake of safeguarding the principle of democracy in order to ensure that the public is as transparent, informed and inclusive as possible. In the preparation and adoption of this law, we have explicitly based on the Resolution on Regulatory Activities and we have chosen a regular procedure, although the conditions for an urgent legislative procedure could also be formally met because we are aware of the importance of ensuring the legitimacy of the rules adopted and, therefore, we have always sought to follow the fundamental origins of the resolution, including the principle of transparency. President, allow me two more brief explanations. First explanation for helicopters. We have heard that this law is used to buy helicopters that are strictly uniform. That's not true. The Slovenian army now has two basic helicopter platforms. One is a medium-sized transport helicopter cougar, the other is an easier transport helicopter Bell 412. Both types of helicopters are dual-purpose for their primary purpose, and both types of helicopters are also used to carry out civilian tasks in addition to carrying out military tasks and would not be listed here. As far as the purchase of new platforms is concerned. Special forces helicopters don't mean they're attack helicopters. That means they're special helicopters. Helicopters for special forces mean that it is likely that the type of helicopter is a medium-sized transport helicopter equipped with additional interior equipment of the base platform; and that the pilots using these helicopters must be specially trained. Well, let me finish with the last explanation. The Slovenian Army has been involved in international operations and missions since 1997. And these international operations and missions are not being travelled by the Slovenian Army alone. This law and these investments will ensure that the Slovenian soldiers are properly equipped immediately or as soon as possible, they have all been deployed to these same missions and they need the same equipment for the day-to-day performance of their duties. Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u37	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, anyone else wishes to discuss it. I take it it's an interest. If he also wants to discuss the Government's representative, please apply by pressing the microphone key, in which case he gets the word as the last. Applications are under way. With fewer than a minute of debate on an individual discusser following the application, there is no time-sharing. So I'm closing the debate. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. Procedural proposal, Mr. German.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u38	Dear President, I'd like to ask you for this manoeuvre if we could call a ten-minute recess. Our fellow Members, because of all the circumstances, are coming to the National Assembly and please let us understand. Just as we understood you today to be referring this session to your nose, just give us 15 minutes' delay to get our colleagues and colleagues to join us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u39	I don't understand, my esteemed German colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u40	If we could take a break in 15 minutes to get our colleagues and colleagues to join us. Under the circumstances, given that you've called this meeting on your nose, I'd ask you nicely if you'd give us 15 minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u41	Is this what you want for the parliamentary group's consultation? Ten minutes, okay? We'll continue at 3 p.m., that's 10 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 15. uri.)
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u42	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Check the voting devices. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. What explanation for the voice? Port of the Moon on behalf of the Left Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Today in the debate, we have heard that the referendum is a tool for dictators and tyrants, with reference to Nazi Germany. The Nazis did have some kind of farce referendum at Anschluss, but that's the wrong conclusion. They also had Parliament and elections, which does not mean that Parliament and elections are characteristics of non-democratic or tyrannical systems. The characteristic of non-democratic, dictatorial or tyrannical systems is the limitation of democracy and the restriction or the trampling of democratic rights. And this is where we are today, beating democracy and beating constitutionally guaranteed rights. Eleven times more than our arrangement, that's 2 thousand 500 signatures, eleven times more signatures we've collected in just five days, that's 28 thousand 551. And 28 thousand 551 people are demanding a referendum on the purchase of 780 million euro weapons. You're giving it up today. This is the first time in the history of independent Slovenia that this way renounces the referendum, and it is even more significant for the first time, it is that you abuse the arrangement you have adopted with the excuse that it is only for the adoption of antikron packages, now for the first time, to permanently deny some right to people. You cannot refer to the Constitution because the Constitution is very clear. It states that the referendum is inadmissible when it comes to necessary measures to ensure the security or defence of the State. But unlike any member of the coalition who is threatened by the situation in eastern Ukraine, Belarus or Turkey, others do not endanger the situation in Turkey, Belarus or Ukraine. But at the moment, citizens are being threatened by the virus and the lack of access to the health system, which is in lockdown, economically and socially threatened by uncertainty and the economic crisis, and politically they are at risk of being denied certain constitutional rights. I'll remind you here of a conservative thinker who might be close to you, Hayek said we had rule of law and rule by the law. The difference is that the government is the right one where we have permanent, solid and permanent standards. Rule by the law is arbitrary conduct, willful rule by decrees. We're at the last one today. And if after the previous crisis we carried out the ZUJF, VAT, fiscal rule and so forth as some lasting consequences of this crisis, this time it is on the scale or on the ground much more. What we wrote in the opening statement of the Coalition of Constitutional Arc, on the scale or on the floor is a constitutional arrangement. And that is why I predict at this point that, of course, we will vote harshly against it. However, we will defend this right of the people in the Constitutional Court and, if necessary, in any higher Infantry.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Anyone else on behalf of the delegation? No, no, no. In his own name, Miha Kordish. Wait, but now so many hands have gone up, I'm going to go through the list. The application for explanations of vote shall be made in its own name. The first one has the word Dr. Matthew T. Vatovec.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u45	Thank you very much, President. Of course, I will vote against this decision. First of all, because this decision is illegal and unconstitutional. If you ask me, you shouldn't even make a decision about him. Secondly and most importantly, if I rely on the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service on this proposal, it is very important that we maintain what is our constitutional democracy. The legal and legal service has written that the essence of constitutional democracy is that it is above all the Constitution and that the will of the majority cannot go beyond what is enshrined in the Constitution. What the coalition is going to do today is to adopt a decision that, contrary to both the Referendum Act and the Human Initiative Act as well as certain articles of the Constitution, is to blackmail and abuse the institutions that this law makes possible is to trample on the essence of democracy. The referendum is one of the basic and highest tools for the exercise of the authority of the people. Almost one of the only and already so limited where people can directly decide on public matters. The moment we decide whether we should listen to the government and spend 780 million euros on weapons, whether we should think about it and give people who have told us many times that we do not agree on it, yesterday there were 28 000 551 who have spoken about it, today is a key issue. If you have already adopted a law that is unnecessary and pointless at this time when we are facing a health, social and economic crisis, not the possibility of a referendum. I will therefore vote against this decision because I am in favour of allowing people to decide on these matters, and especially because if such a decision is adopted, this is the beginning of the end of our constitutional democracy.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The word is "Cygler's Turtle."
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I will explain why I will vote against the end of the referendum on this issue. The right to a referendum stems from Article 3 of the Constitution, which provides for the power of the people in Slovenia; and this right is hereby abolished and will be lifted by coalition voting. The coalition is based on the legal opinion of the Rector of the New University, Dr. Matei Avblja, of the same Matei Avblja, who is the Rector of 27. Ten. 2020 at the Education Ministry lobbied for benefits and unlawful conduct in granting accreditation for his university. To date, this legal condition has not been met and this has been regulated by Article 57 of the CAP6. The same person who received the political service she asked for gave this policy a legal opinion on the inadmissibility of a legislative referendum on 780 million weapons. And on the basis of such an opinion, which is an obvious conflict of interest – and this is clear to every layman – the coalition will today agree with the opinion on the inadmissibility of the referendum. The people gave you a mandate and pay taxes and under Article 3 of the Constitution they have an inalienable right to a referendum because there is no emergency situation. I will therefore vote against the proposed decision that a legislative referendum of 780 million for the purchase of arms is inadmissible. In fact, the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have become prisoners, colleagues and colleagues, freedom of movement is forbidden to us, freedom of speech is punished, the referendum wants to be withdrawn. Members and Members of the ruling coalition will also support this form of Janshism with the support of the proposed decision, and this vote will continue to be recorded today. Please, if you are aware of your responsibilities as I am, I will therefore vote in favour of retaining the right of people to a referendum which is constitutional and inseparable.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u48	The word is Primoz Siter.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I will vote against this decision because, as we have already heard, it is unconstitutional and illegal, and most obviously it is also pointless, both the law and the ban on the referendum. EUR 780 million is the largest remit in the history of the Slovenian budget, which will go for one purpose; and it is not to solve the health crisis, it is not to resolve the social pressures of the dead housing policy or any other state-of-the-art system, it is not to save lives and the plight of citizens and citizens; it is to resolve the arms business. Of course, as it has been proven that 40% of all arms deals end in corruption, it is perfectly logical that the government of Janez Janša and her actors, who already have this history of corruption with weapons transactions, long for the voice of the people not to be heard here. And the voice of the people in these concrete days has been translated into 28 000 551 votes by people, people and people of Slovenia who say that such a thing, such nonsense, this unconstitutionality and illegality need a new reflection, a referendum is needed, a clear public clarification is needed. The people, residents and residents of Slovenia do not want to support the new arms business, so the question that we are asking here and which has been heard several times in this Chamber today is not who is fighting the Slovenian Army. The question is who is afraid of the Slovenian people. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The word is Micah Kordish.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u51	In just a few days, 30,000 citizens and citizens have submitted from their homes to the stands, to the collectors, to give their signature for a referendum against the government of Janez Janša 780 million euros being thrown into arms. And to do so in the midst of the biggest health crisis that has plagued us in 100 years. People did it, even though they have Hoys's badges on them. They stood in rows, frozen there for half an hour, if necessary, to give their signature. With masks, taking into account the safe distance. That is why the government of Janez Janša decided to ban the referendum on these weapons. And her coalition is obviously going to do it today. But people in this country won't just leave, I can promise you that. They know damn well that every euro that's about shells, which is about helicopters for special forces, is forever lost to the health well-being of this country. And for those 12,000 old people standing in line for the homes of the elderly, and for 10,000 young people who need rented non-profit apartments. This trend will be reversed in the referendum, even if today you will vote on its prohibition, ladies and gentlemen, even if you are afraid of your own people. There is no account by which this ban on the referendum may stand. And in Levi, we will continue our efforts for direct democracy. These 780 million Euros of heavy arms purchases should be made public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u52	Thank you very much. The word is Robert Polnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u53	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my previous position, I expressed the view that the referendum is a popular tool for dictators and tyrants. I'm aware of more difficult words. But I also know that the words spoken are true. In the two most exposed modern dictatorships, there were no elections. But they used the referendum. For example, in 1934, Mussolini placed his parliamentary list not for the election, but for the referendum; and she received 99.84% of the vote. Hitler invented a constitutional referendum so that he could bypass the Weimar Constitution and combine the functions of the President of the State and the Chancellor and appoint himself as a constitutionally justified Führer. He got 88.18% of the vote. For example, at the referendum he also decided to withdraw Germany from the League of Nations. He got 95.10% of the vote. Finally, he also gave the referendum a decision to join the Judges and Austria. At that time, he succeeded with 99.68% of the votes and so on and so on. In the debates on whether or not the Slovenian Army should be financed, the question arises in particular to me how we could have allowed the Slovenian Army to be so financially sub-capacitated and, above all, what is wrong with us as with the nation. And are we really not worth the shadow we're leaving behind? Today, I will support this decision, as proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Natasha Sukic has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u55	Your Honor, if I listen to the words of Ambassador Polnar, then, of course, Switzerland is the greatest dictatorship. Of course, I will vote against the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum, because when the opinion on the inadmissibility of this referendum is written by Dr. Matthew Avbelj, who in the so-called Jambrek corruption article received in the PKP6, worked out EUR 2 million per year for a university that does not meet the conditions for the extension of accreditation, which, therefore, by lobbying from Janša, has sustained legalised corruption, everything is clear. The hand can do it. Those who signed the referendum procedures decided in five days to raise their voice against this government, against spending 780 million euros on weapons, while suffering one of the worst economic, social and health crises. And the snowball just started rolling, you know that, and that's what you're afraid of. Members and Members of Parliament, these acquisitions are not about defending the country, and you know that. The stories of the country's emergency defense are a lie. It is a matter of adhering to the interests of foreign weapons, especially the American ones, so of course there is no doubt that this referendum is not only absolutely permissible but also necessary if we want to defend 780 million of our money for investments in public health, education, social, public infrastructure. Unless you think we're defending our homeland in Afghanistan and on Nate's missions abroad. And proof of the fact that foreign weapons are already drooling through our money is also evidence of a recent attempt to lobby the company's funds for, which is owned by the Norwegian state and is the 49% owner of Finland's Patria. Such a mass call from the people made it clear how the people felt about the actions and government of John Janša. Who are we to dare vote against the will of the people, against the will of those without whom we would not be here at all? They sent us here, they pay our wages. What coalition are you to fear your own people, your own people?Oh, my God! Of course, think about it. [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The word is from Dr. Franz Ducky.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I thought today we had this extraordinary session on whether the referendum was justified and permissible or not; not all life. As a generous conservative socialdemocrat, who also comes from a party that we have more than one candidate for each function, and as a related noble Christian Democrat and a constitutional patriot, taking into account the legislative and legal service of this National Assembly, we do not need any private universities, and I do not know who we do not need. We have flower ladies in this house who tell us whether something is allowed or not, whether it is unconstitutional or not. And it seems to me that they were quite exact in such a way that my 12-year-old daughter understands their explanation. I will therefore vote against it. I will vote against that too, Mr Secretary of State, you said that we need this equipment, the Slovenian Army needs to act on the world's battlefields. We have the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. In those two articles of the Constitution, 123rd and 124th, if I have the right memory, it's about defense. We don't have a ministry to operate on the world's battlefields. That's why I'm voting against it. The problem is that if we have a government and a coalition that is not only afraid of its own people, this government and coalition is also afraid of the Prime Minister of the Government. Otherwise, it would not have happened on Murski Sobota, when the president of the government who married a doctor puts on that protective robe absolutely wrong, and no one hopes to tell him. This is not the criticism of Janez Janša, this is the criticism of you who fear him. [[advertising from the hall]] I got dozens and dozens of e-mails, not just from doctors who said, "But you're gonna get us in the head, look at this. [[...]] Thank you for your word. I'll vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u58	The word is Luke the Moon.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u59	Thank you. The referendum is primarily an instrument against dictators and tyrants. Franco left for Spain with a referendum, Pinochet went to Chile with a referendum, and in Italy after the war the monarchy was abolished with a referendum. In any case, this is not relevant to us, because in order for the referendum to be an instrument of tyranny, you first need a tyrant. But we're in a reverse situation. The referendum calls for opposition, but we have a government that will make a precedent today and abuse some of the legal provisions that have been introduced to combat the coronavirus in order to undermine constitutionally guaranteed rights. With us there is a danger of tyranny in that we have this right today, and we no longer have it tomorrow. What right or rights we'll have in 14 days, nobody knows. So we're skating into some complete arbitration that we're not going to get out of so easily, and today you're doing this precedent. Second of all, you have to tell me why you're doing it. And if I used to quote Hayek, now I'm going to be another conservative. Margaret Thatcher put it this way: I don't have to worry about the movement and the flow of public opinion in the Soviet Politburo, but they put guns in front of the butter, while we literally put everything in front of the cannons. So, guns in the last place. Why did she say that? Because she knew that in democracy, governments had to respect people's preferences. You only forbid this referendum because you fear the people's preference. Because you know that the people, unlike any member of the coalition, are not at war and are not threatened by the situation in Belarus, but are at risk by the health, economic and social situation that this government should be dealing with at this time, and are engaged in arms procurement. I will vote against, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Vojko Starović has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, chairman. A little bit of this debate, as far as I'm concerned, has gone in the wrong direction. We're just discussing the referendum today. We've already told many times, we're for the military, for the equipment, for the explanation of what we need, what we don't need, we've heard and I support, it's no problem. But the fact is, in the current situation, we are in a deep crisis – social and economic. And this really isn't the time for us to get military equipment in our debt. This really isn't the time. Because the debt and the roll-out of the economy means the loss of sovereignty. We've been through this before. Seriously, this is not the time. I'm for the army, for the equipment, for the obligations to Nate. If we're going to this group, we have to stick to our international obligations. I agree. But why do I need the law, that's the hardest question for me, but if we already have the funds in the budget? Why is marriage necessary for so many years to come? Again, there are many suspicions, many letters, that this is again what we did not clear up with Katharza – weapons affairs. Not just one, I'm afraid we're having another. What shall I vote for? For us to stay so that we can go a referendum through; and I am against this decision. Why don't you ask people? The ruling SDS, you gave the referendum a 19-time initiative and it cost 40 million. I know it's expensive, but let's keep this institution that's beautiful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Aljaž Kovacic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, President. Although we are not talking about the Slovenian Army today, and although we are all in fact agreeing that all these years have been neglected when I listen to the coalition, it is likely that a person would go to the bazak store because he would think that we Slovenians are currently so threatened. This is probably coming from one of the biggest countries in the world where we see what's going on. But not today. Today we are talking about a referendum on whether people have the right to decide whether we will invest €780 million in the military during the greatest health and economic crisis. We've come into a situation where, actually, at the time of your eight months of rule, it's already the fifth or sixth law to which it's impossible to file a referendum. If we look back into history, you can see how many times this has happened in the 1930s. But why is the coalition and the government proposing this? For one simple reason — and that is fear. Fear for two reasons. The first fear is that this government will not receive €780 million and distribute it in one way or another. The other fear is greater. This is the fear of the people, which, if possible, shows that people strongly oppose the success of the referendum, has also shown the confidence of this government, from Minister Tonin to, in fact, all the parties sitting in this government, led by the Prime Minister of the Government. And that's the only reason you're banning the referendum today. Because of the fear of your own people, which has given you the votes that have sent you to the National Assembly, you will take the right to decide whether we will invest 780 million euros in weapons operations during the greatest economic crisis.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The word is Violeta Tomic.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u65	Thank you for your word. In just five days, we collected as many signatures as was required; and now the government of Janez Janša takes the right to a referendum. However, you refer to the legal opinion of Dr. Matey Avbla, Rector of the University, who has just been awarded €2 million a year by the PKP6, although he does not meet the conditions for this. It's eclectic corruption and shame. Last night, whoever was watching documentary shows on high-quality RTV Slovenia was able to see the hardships of people of small entrepreneurs, the Union of Youth Friends, which helps in social distress. We also saw the trade flows of arms trade in Africa, Latin America, and unfortunately also in southern Europe. And here we get an answer, why right now, during the global health epidemic, we need to buy weapons instead of saving health care and people's misery. Because they're going because of the heavy trade and the transfer of commission to the sky. They go up to 40 percent. And all this manipulation has nothing to do with the defence and protection of Slovenia. It has little to do with the defence of arms deals and the security of commissions for war profiteers. I will vote against the beating of the will of the people and against the decision on the inadmissibility of the referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u66	Thank you very much. The word is from Boštjan Koražija.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u67	Dear President, thank you very much for your word. You know, to the Slovenian people, democracy is just as important as its bread. And essentially to the Slovenian people is the democracy of bread. This also proved all 28 thousand 551 supporters who signed and were truly disciplined to stand in line and wait for their signature to be signed. At the same time, if you looked at certain photographs, they were in rows for bread. And here I have to admit, or I am constantly happy and constantly beset by some new spirit and with some new advantage, and also with some new aspects of the future that are coming, that we can always count on the Slovenian people. And the Slovenian people will always say what they think about you, about us, about everything. And I will vote against the decision, because all of these supporters of support who have given us support want to go to the referendum and vote because we are also representing them in this national assembly. And I will always repeat in every explanation of vote, all of us 90 Members must be aware that we are here on behalf of two million people. Once again, I will vote against the decision and please reconsider on behalf of who you are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2020-11-27-SDZ8-Izredna-51.ana.u68	Thank you very much. We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 84 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 33. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 33.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 51st extraordinary meeting of the choir.
